Corporate Governance 62 Accountability Audit Committee Report Dear fellow Shareholder I am pleased to present the Audit Committees Report for 2018.
It demonstrates the important role being played by the Committee within the Companys governance framework and Mike McKeon in supporting the Board with risk Committee Chair management, internal control and financial reporting, and its high level of activity during the year against Primary role Review the Groups process and a structured programme.
To protect the interests of shareholders controls for the detection of fraud, Review of the year through ensuring the continuing integrity prevention of bribery and whistleblowing, In terms of compliance with the 2016 UK of the Companys published financial and compliance with the Groups Corporate Governance Code Code and information and the effectiveness of the regulatory, legislative and applicable related Guidance on Audit Committees, Groups internal audit function, external codes of practice requirements I believe the Committee has continued to audit process and the systems of internal Maintain an appropriate and effective address the spirit and requirements of both controls and risk management.
relationship with the external auditor during the year.
We have also worked to The Committees terms of reference, Activity highlights capture early the two key accountability reviewed and approved annually, are Scrutinised the full and half year changes in the new Code, issued by the available on the Companys website at financial statements FRC in July 2018 and which applies to www.
Challenged the robustness of the the Company from 2019, namely, the Groups going concern and Viability management of emerging risks and the Key responsibilities Statement extension of whistleblowing arrangements.
Monitor the integrity of the Groups Implemented new accounting standards financial reporting process and The Committee again challenged itself to IFRS 9 and 15 and completed management ensure that its work addressed those areas preparations for IFRS 16 Ensure that any significant financial of most importance to the Group and or Conducted an external review of judgements or estimates made by which could have the biggest impact on its the internal audit function and management are sound current or future financial performance.
commissioned one for the cyber Approve the activities and monitor the This resulted in the Committees time and security programme performance of the internal and external attention being focused on the highlighted Reviewed the systems of internal auditors, including monitoring their activities shown opposite and explained controls and risk management independence, objectivity and below.
Full activity details are set out on Conducted an end-to-end effectiveness effectiveness page 65. review of local whistleblowing facilities Evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups and arrangements throughout the Group Committee in action internal controls including financial With a view to helping make a meaningful controls and risk management systems contribution as Chair of the Committee to the exercise of its obligations, I visited the Membership, meetings and attendance Groups North America management Meeting attended Meeting not attended offices in Chicago last September.
The purpose was to undertake a deep-dive Committee member Appointed Meetings attended review of: Mike McKeon Chair 01.01.13 our improved North America insurance 1 Lee Sander 01.06.11 claims handling process: this is because insurance reserves are an area of Dr Ashley Steel 01.01.16 significant estimation and judgement by 1 Chris Muntwyler 11.05.11 management each year: and 1 Independent Non-Executive Director Other attendees by invitation : Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Group Finance, Group Director of Insurance and Risk, Head of Group Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditor, Deloitte.
Biographical details of the members are set out on pages 56 and 57 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 63 While the Groups risk landscape continues to be challenging and dynamic, we are well placed to manage it effectively through both our risk management framework and strategic planning process.
our first significant use of a recently This type of change is a good example New accounting standards introduced data analytics and business of the increasing maturity of the Groups A significant amount of management and intelligence tool: this is because the new risk management processes in a dynamic Committee time was spent during the year technology will increasingly be relied environment.
It also demonstrates the need considering the introduction of three new upon by local management for for regular re-appraisal as some emerging accounting standards.
Implementation of the predictive risk profiling of our drivers risks can also represent significant IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and 15 and the management and use of key opportunities, and for these both the Revenue from contracts with customers, operational performance indicators and upside potential and the downside risk which applied to the Company for 2018, personnel scorecards.
When mature, need to be managed at the same time.
was completed satisfactorily in this data tool set will allow a different consultation with the external auditor.
The Committee has increased its oversight approach to be taken to many aspects of the internal controls and programme In preparing for the introduction of IFRS 16 of management and governance in our of activities in place across the Group Leases, which applies to the Company North America business, including those to address cyber-attack threats which from 2019, management conducted a of internal and external audit, hence why continue to pose a real risk to all businesses thorough use and operations analysis it merited advanced scrutiny.
and noted that further progress against key of all leased assets across the Group to I also took the opportunity while in Chicago milestones, as validated by our external then categorise, evaluate and assess their to meet various other personnel, including advisers, has been made.
However, qualification against the new requirements.
our North America lead internal auditor and recognising the fast-changing nature The Committee has been involved in the local risk and insurance manager.
It is of cyber security and the increasingly reviewing the thoroughness of my intention to visit at least one major sophisticated and organised nature of managements analysis and considerations operational business each year to achieve cyber criminals, and following a Committee in consultation with external advisers, and similar objectives.
presentation, IBM has recently been these were also the subject of separate instructed to conduct a Group-wide review challenge by and discussion with Deloitte.
Risk landscape of our current structure, approach and Additionally, the Committee recommended During the year, the Committee again protection capabilities, and to advise that the Remuneration Committee consider reviewed and debated changes in the Group on the next stage of its cyber the potential knock-on effect of IFRS 16 to the Groups risk profile at both a development.
I will report on IBMs the EPS and ROCE targets applying to macroeconomic and geopolitical level, findings and our response next year.
andfrom a key operational risks and threats perspective, as set out in the The Committee supports the ongoing Full details regarding these three new Groups principal risk matrix.
Certain development of good practice in risk accounting standards and their respective changes were made to reflect reporting, hence why we have reviewed impact appears on pages 119,120 and developments in our risk environment, and enhanced our own reporting this year 129.
The Remuneration Committees including the treatment of Brexit as a as set out on pages 39 45.
We believe review of IFRS 16 appears on page 76. separate principal risk rather than as a part that the new format of presenting the Viability Statement of the wider economic environment risk as principal risks adds clarity to the Groups The Committee reviewed and challenged it had been before.
Various Brexit risk profile and context in terms of relative management on its recommended viability outcomes were also considered as part of likelihood and impact.
Further evidence of period as well as on its robust modelling, our going concern and viability stress our increased risk management maturity stress testing scenarios and conclusions, testing, review of the Groups debt facilities can be seen by the inclusion of a specific and satisfied itself that a three-year outlook and tax treaty arrangements and personal Board approved risk appetite statement remained appropriate.
This choice of data handling.
and in the development of an emerging risk period is driven principally by the fact that register, to complement the principal one One new risk was added to the Groups it is covered by the Groups strategic plan, already in place.
principal risk register during the year, reflects the nature of the Groups principal namely, alternative fuel vehicles AFVs.
Overall, while the Groups risk landscape risks some of which are external and have In anticipation of the new Code, the continues to be challenging and dynamic, the potential to impact in the short-term Committee has been supporting the we are well placed to manage it effectively and takes into account three major risks, Executive and the Board to create an through both our risk management namely, Brexit, the Spanish long haul emerging risk register at Group level to framework and strategic planning process.
concession renewals and our bond complement the principal risk register refinancing timetable, all of which are already in place.
While AFVs were expected to fall within the next three years.
previously considered an emerging risk, The Viability Statement, and a full given the rapid developments in associated explanation of it, appears on page 45. technology and the fact that many OEMs are developing mass market products, it is now considered a principal risk.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 64 Accountability continued Audit Committee Report continued Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee is encouraged by the Looking forward The Committee assessed and continuing improvement being made The Committee is aware of the recently recommended to the Board which it across the Group in its underlying control completed Kingman Review of the subsequently endorsed that, taken as environment, as evidenced in the output Financial Reporting Council FRC and the a whole, the 2018 Annual Report is fair, work presented to it by the internal audit CMA Market Study on statutory audit balanced and understandable and provides and risk management teams.
services, as well as the impending Brydon the necessary information for shareholders Review into the quality and effectiveness of GDPR compliance to assess the Companys position and the UK audit market.
Many of the The proper use and safeguarding of performance, business model and strategy.
recommendations from both completed personal data remains one of our most works are far reaching and if implemented Internal audit and control important risk areas and has been a high would significantly change the Audit The Groups internal audit function profile topic this year.
The Committee had Committees remit and how it operates.
continued to operate effectively in 2018, oversight of the Executive-led plan and Equally, the Brydon Review could lead to particularly in respect of some high profile training programme, and received significant change in the audit landscape.
compliance assurance work, against a plan implementation reports and presentations, While the next steps are currently unclear, of activity approved and monitored by to meet the requirements of the new the Committee will closely monitor the Committee.
General Data Protection Regulation developments on all fronts.
The outcome of EYs quality assurance I am pleased that the Committee achieved review conducted early in the year was Overall, we took a number of steps to a consistently high level of performance reassuring in that it confirmed the function improve our personal data management during 2018, as highlighted above, operated to a high level and in adherence both internally and externally, particularly and expect that 2019 will be equally with the International Internal Auditing as regards key stakeholders, in order to challenging and busy as we seek to fulfil Standards.
It also identified, in the light of achieve on-time compliance.
We also met our core responsibilities in accordance with best practice, an opportunity to evolve the with UK senior management shortly after the new governance regime, in support of functions role within the Groups three go-live to assess how the introduction of the Board and in a way that is consistent lines of defence model and align its our new GDPR policies and procedures with the Companys culture and values.
activities closer to the future needs and were operating in practice.
We were That said, I look forward to the Committee material risks of the business, and to make pleased to see that the UK business had continuing to make a meaningful more use of technology in doing so.
fully integrated them into their normal contribution to the success of the Group.
Implementation of EYs recommendations activities ensuring they get the right will continue throughout 2019. management focus going forward.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members, together with During the year, the Committee also: Ongoing GDPR compliance will be management, internal audit and Deloitte, monitored by internal audit as part of its for their support during the year.
In reviewed, pre-publication, the Companys annual work plan.
particular, I would like to recognise the first payment practices and UK gender excellent work of management in achieving pay gap reports, and new processes and Committee effectiveness on-time GDPR compliance and completing training to address the offence of The Committees operations and preparations for IFRS 16, two very facilitating corporate tax evasion: activities formed part of the internal Board demanding Group-wide and crossconducted an end-to-end effectiveness performance evaluation undertaken this functional projects.
review of the Groups whistleblowing year, details of which are provided in the arrangements this had a positive Effectiveness section on pages 52 and 53. outcome and resulted in the need for an It confirmed that the Committee continued updated Group Whistleblowing Policy to operate effectively and to a high and the issue of an annual awareness standard, with clear priorities, well defined campaign directive to all territories: and responsibilities and clarity around its agreed an assurance work plan with the work plan.
Mike McKeon legal and procurement teams for 2019 to Audit Committee Chair extend our modern slavery risk exposure 28 February 2019 analysis, compliance due diligence and training, with a particular focus on the North America supply chain.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 65 Committee composition and operations The Board is satisfied that the Committee as a whole possesses relevant sectoral experience and that its members bring a broad range of financial and commercial experience from across various industries.
It is also satisfied that Mike McKeon possesses the recent and relevant financial experience required by the Code.
Details of the Committee meetings held during the year are shown on page 49 and these included various private sessions with both the external auditor and Head of Group Internal Audit.
The Committee Chair also has regular private meetings with the Group Finance Director, Head of Group Internal Audit and the Deloitte Senior Statutory Auditor and his team to ensure that throughout the year open and informal lines of communication exist should they wish to raise any concerns outside of formal meetings.
Audit Committee activity in 2018 The main areas of Committee activity during the year and through to the date of this report included the planning, monitoring, reviewing and approval as applicable of the following: Financial reporting The integrity of published Financial Statements, including the significant financial matters considered The information, underlying assumptions and stress test analysis presented in support of the Viability Statement and going concern status The consistency and appropriateness of the financial control and reporting environment The implementation of new accounting standards IFRS 9 and 15 and preparation for IFRS 16 The availability of distributable reserves to fund the dividend policy and make dividend payments The fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Annual Report and half year statement The risk, uncertainty and potential impact on the Group arising from Brexit and a potential no-deal outcome External audit The scope of and findings from the external audit plan undertaken by Deloitte as the external auditor The effectiveness of the external audit process The assessment of the performance, and continued objectivity and independence, of Deloitte The level of fees paid to Deloitte for audit and permitted non-audit services The re-appointment of Deloitte as external auditor Internal audit The scope and appropriateness of the Groups internal audit plan and resourcing requirements, including external assistance The findings from investigations undertaken and the progress made against agreed management actions The findings from compliance testing of financial controls The consideration of EYs effectiveness review of the internal audit function and the implementation of their recommendations The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function Risk management and internal control The scope of the Groups internal controls and risk management programme The adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems, including the management of its insurance and claims handling programme The Groups risk environment, including its significant and recently created emerging risk register The Groups IT risk strategy and disaster recovery plans The Groups cyber security threats, their continuing evolution and the Groups response to them The Groups fraud, anti-bribery and corruption and whistleblowing prevention measures The Groups preparation for and controlled implementation of GDPR Compliance with the Code and the Groups regulatory and legislative environment Tax and treasury The Groups treasury policy and affairs, including associated key risks management The impact of refinancing activities on the Groups financial position The Groups tax affairs, including its tax strategy and tax evasion defence and controls programme The assurance of the Groups continuing liquidity in view of uncertain future threats, including a potential no-deal Brexit Other The Committees effectiveness and terms of reference The Groups Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement The Companys payment practices and UK gender pay gap reporting The new Code requirements as they apply to the Committees responsibilities National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 66 Accountability continued Audit Committee Report continued Significant financial matters The following descriptions are of the two significant financial matters considered by the Committee, with input from management and the external auditor, in connection with the Groups Financial Statements and disclosures.
These were considered to be significant taking into account the level of materiality and the degree of critical judgement or estimation exercised by management.
The descriptions should be read in conjunction with the Independent Auditors Report on pages 106 113 and the accounting policies disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements on pages 119 129.
We have not provided a description of those other areas of management judgements and estimates reviewed, challenged and assessed by the Committee in consultation with Deloitte, and which the Committee considered as not significant.
These areas included taxation, pensions, financial instruments, business combinations and discontinued operations, revenue recognition and new accounting standards IFRS 9, 15 and 16 and IFRIC 12.
Significant area of focus Significant area of focus Goodwill and fixed asset impairment Insurance and other claims provisions see notes 2 and 14 to the financial statements see notes 2 and 26 to the financial statements The Committee considered the adequacy of the provisions The Committee considered whether the carrying value of associated with insurance and other claims arising goodwill and intangible assets held on the Groups balance predominantly from traffic accidents and employee incidents, sheet at the year end 1,461 million should be impaired.
The estimation of such provisions, The potential risk is around the recoverability of these balances, including those arising on acquisition, is judgemental and particularly in relation to our ALSA 812 million and North based on an assessment of the expected settlement of known America 621 million businesses, with the key area of claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be estimation uncertainty as assessed and tested by management made in respect of incidents incurred but not yet reported as part of their annual goodwill impairment review arising from at the balance sheet date.
Given the level of uncertainty, the application of discounted cash flows on a value in use complexity and judgement involved in making these estimations basis.
The discount and future growth rates applied are highly there is a risk that the eventual outcome could be materially sensitive to change because both must reflect a long-term view different from that estimated and provided for.
of the underlying growth in each respective economy.
The Committee received and discussed with management a The Committee received a detailed report from management report from the Group Director of Insurance and Risk on North which outlined the robust impairment analysis and testing America insurance and other claims, particularly the key undertaken for the year on a bottom-up basis and which estimations of uncertainty made in determining the level of included: i the underlying cash flows, discount rates and future provisions, the methodology used, the measurement of growth rates assumed: and ii the modelling adopted relating to self-insured claims and the extent to which they were the use of country-specific discount rates and various impact supported by third party actuarial advice.
It also reviewed scenarios arising from the potential outcomes of ALSAs the rigorous audit investigation undertaken by Deloitte which concession renewal programme.
The report concluded that included their actuarial specialists challenge of the underlying there is not a material risk of non-recoverability in this area and assumptions around loss development, sample testing and that neither the North America nor the ALSA goodwill assets are in-depth discussion with the US General Counsel and members impaired.
Indeed, both continue to have sufficient levels of of the local claims handling team.
headroom albeit less than in previous years due to an increase in the discount rates used and notwithstanding the addition of The Committee noted that in considering the overall balance goodwill during the year through ongoing acquisition activities.
sheet provision, there was a wide range of potential outcomes.
The Committee challenged managements methodology, range However, taking into account the comfort taken by the of assumptions and testing scenarios undertaken.
It also noted Committees Chair in his recent first-hand review of the North that Deloitte had challenged management assumptions and America claims handling process, the thorough internal analysis found no issues.
As a result, the Committee was satisfied that undertaken and the audit work conducted by Deloitte, the neither the goodwill nor other non-current assets of the Group Committee concluded that the provision for North America as at the balance sheet date are impaired.
insurance and other claims, as recommended by management, was within an acceptable range and was fairly stated.
In addition to the above, the Committee has considered, taken action and made onward recommendations to the Board, as appropriate, on a range of other matters during the year, including in relation to the Viability Statement, going concern, the potential impact arising from Brexit and other specific areas of audit, compliance and governance focus.
The Committee was satisfied that all issues had been fully and adequately addressed, that the judgements or estimations made by management were reasonable and appropriate and had been reviewed and debated with the external auditor who concurred with the approach taken by management, and that the accounting and disclosure requirements were satisfactory.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 67 External auditor Effectiveness The Company is next required to retender Deloitte, as the external auditor, is Immediately following completion of the the audit by no later than the financial engaged to conduct a statutory audit external audit process for 2018, the year ending 2021.
The Committee will and express an opinion on the financial Committee conducted a review of its assess the quality of the external audit statements.
Its audit includes the review effectiveness and a performance review annually and, on the basis that its quality and testing of the systems of internal of Deloitte.
This was carried out through a remains high and the audit fee represents financial control and data which are used mix of a survey questionnaires and analysis good value to shareholders both as to produce the information contained in and follow-up consultation with Committee benchmarked versus market practice, it the financial statements.
members, the Executive Directors, is expected that the next audit tender will members of the senior finance team and take place at that time.
We will, however, The current external audit engagement divisional Finance Directors.
The qualitative look to start early planning for the next partner appointed with effect from and robust assessment focused on the tender during 2019.
1 January 2016 is Stephen Griggs, Head valuable feedback and insights received, of Audit and Risk Advisory for Deloitte in On the recommendation of the Committee, process and communication, handling of the UK.
the Board is proposing a resolution to issues and the quality of the audit team, re-appoint Deloitte to office as external and had regard to the latest Audit Quality The external audit plan and the 1.3 million auditor for a further year at this Inspection Report on Deloitte issued by fee proposal for the financial year under years AGM.
review 2017: 1.2m was prepared by Deloitte in consultation with management Non-audit services The Committees conclusion was that and presented to the Committee for To help protect the objectivity and Deloitte had again completed an effective consideration and approval.
The plan again independence of Deloitte, and in addition audit process which provided an focused on risk, challenge and materiality to its own internal safeguards, the appropriate level of independent challenge and was aligned to the Groups structure Company operates a Non-Audit Services to the Groups Executive and senior and strategy.
It was also designed to Policy that sets out the types of non-audit management.
Additionally, Deloitte continue transition of the audit, as directed services, such as assurance work, which continues to perform their services, in by Deloitte, to be more internal control Deloitte may provide to the Group.
The respect of both the audit and their work assurance based and less substantive policy, which includes a pre-approval generally, to a high standard.
Areas in its emphasis and with increased use process, specific financial control limits identified for development and made of data analytics.
and a definitive list of permitted and improvement have been shared with non-permitted services, and which meets Deloitte for inclusion in their service The Committee is responsible for the FRCs revised Ethical Standard delivery plans going forward.
monitoring and reviewing the objectivity requirements, remained unchanged during and independence of Deloitte as external External audit tendering policy the year and is, after review, proposed to auditor.
In undertaking this annual The Company last put its external audit out remain so again for 2019. assessment for the year under review, to competitive tender in 2011 following and concluding that their independence Details of the fees charged by Deloitte, which Deloitte was appointed to the office remained assured, the Committee split between audit and permitted of auditor, replacing EY.
The Company has considered: a report on their independence non-audit fees, for the year ended complied during the year under review, and submitted by Deloitte which included the 31 December 2018 can be found in note 6 through to the date of this report, with the internal safeguards operated by them : the to the financial statements on page 133. provisions of the Statutory Audit Services mitigating actions taken by the Company Total fees for non-audit services, including for Large Companies Market Investigation to safeguard their independent status see the half year review, amounted to Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Non-audit services below : the tenure of 0.1 million, representing 7.7% of the Processes and Audit Committee the current audit engagement partner Groups total audit fees payable to Deloitte Responsibilities Order 2014. being less than five years : and the for the year.
No fees were approved or paid positive outcome of the external audit and on a contingent basis.
performance review of Deloitte see below.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 68 Accountability continued Audit Committee Report continued Internal audit Effectiveness Risk management The Committee has oversight and The Committee monitors and formally The Group has an embedded risk directional responsibility for the Groups assesses the effectiveness of the internal management culture and our approach internal audit function which is led by the audit function on an annual basis and continues to mature and evolve.
This is Head of Group Internal Audit and who has seeks to satisfy itself that the quality, being led by the divisional heads and a direct reporting line into the Committee expertise, experience and cost of the actively supported by the Group Director of Chair.
The functions purpose is to provide function is appropriate to the Group.
Insurance and Risk in the management of an independent and objective assessment their risk registers, in driving risk As reported last year, the Committee of the effectiveness of the internal controls, awareness and in developing and sharing commissioned EY to conduct an external risk management and governance best practice.
quality assurance review of the function processes in operation throughout the in early 2018.
EYs development The Committee receives regular updates Group.
The function adds value by: recommendations and 18-month plan on the Groups principal and emerging contributing to the continuous of action through to the end of 2019 are risks, including deep-dive reviews of improvement of internal control and being implemented in full to ensure the particular risks, such as cyber, which related processes, including identifying positioning of the function and the focus allows for discussion and the monitoring and sharing good practice across of its activities continue to be aligned with of progress against mitigation actions the Group: the future needs and material risks of the previously agreed.
This year, the addressing the safeguarding of assets, business.
The Committee will monitor Committee also received specific compliance with applicable laws and implementation progress against plan and satisfactory updates on: regulations and achievement of during the year.
regulatory developments in relation managements operational objectives: Overall, the Committee concluded that to risk management and the Groups promoting business processes that the internal audit function continued to proposed response: deliver effective internal control at be effective, objective and independent benchmarking of the Groups risk reasonable cost: and in the work it undertakes, and has a good reporting against FTSE100 and providing alignment with the Groups value-add reputation with operational S&P 100 organisations: and risk management process.
management in the performance of its role.
the good progress being made in each An Internal Audit Charter sets out the division with their new risk registers, Risk management and internal control responsibilities of both the internal audit and additional risk-related work, such The Board is responsible for determining function in terms of its focus, programme as that carried out by the recently both the nature and extent of the Groups of activity, scope of investigations and established North America Risk & risk management and internal control reporting lines and management in terms Compliance Committee.
framework and for determining its risk of it providing support and co-operation appetite i. e. the balance in risk and Regular reports are also received by the at all levels of the organisation.
opportunity deemed acceptable in Committee from the external auditor, The annual internal audit plan and resource pursuing the Groups strategic objectives.
and from internal audit and other major allocation, including any external specialist business functions on various aspects of The Committee is responsible for reviewing assistance required, is reviewed and financial reporting, internal control, risk and monitoring the adequacy, design and approved by the Committee to ensure it is management, legal and compliance.
In effectiveness of the Groups ongoing aligned with the key risks of the business turn, the Committee provides the Board systems of risk management and internal and the Groups strategic plan.
The with interim assessments of risk and their control which includes financial, Committee receives update reports at potential impact on the Groups financial operational and compliance controls, each meeting confirming the key findings position, accounting affairs and control and reporting to the Board accordingly, from reviews undertaken, the material systems and on how material risks to the with primary responsibility for their actions required to implement the Group are being managed.
The annual operation delegated to management.
recommendations and the status of risk management work plan, prepared in These systems have been designed progress against previously agreed actions.
consultation with management, is reviewed to safeguard both the shareholders These include the identification of known and approved by the Committee to ensure investment and the assets of the Group instances of fraud, theft or similar alignment with the Groups changing risk and manage, rather than eliminate, the irregularities affecting the Group, although profile as well as its strategic plan and the risks inherent in achieving the Groups there were no such matters that were near-term priorities of the business.
They can therefore sufficiently material to warrant separate provide only reasonable, not absolute, disclosure in this report.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 69 2019 will see the Committee continue Effectiveness Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to support the Board in fulfilling its Assisted by the Committee, the Board The Board has a zero-tolerance policy in responsibilities for risk management by reviewed the systems of internal controls place against bribery and corruption of carrying out further deep-dive reviews, as and risk management described above any sort.
Regular training is given to appropriate, with associated business which have been in place for the year under employees, including new employees, management and reviewing the Groups review and through to the signing of this to highlight areas of vulnerability and principal and emerging risk registers, and Annual Report taking into account the reporting procedures.
Our principal the divisional risk registers.
assurance work undertaken by both the risk suppliers are also required to have similar management and internal audit functions, policies and practices in place within their The Groups risk management framework and the relevant process, controls and own businesses.
and appetite, together with the process in testing undertaken by Deloitte as part of its place for identifying, evaluating, monitoring Whistleblowing Policy half year review and full year audit.
and managing the principal risks and The Group is committed to promoting a uncertainties faced by the Group, are set In respect of the centralised treasury safe and effective culture for employees out on pages 39 44. back-office accounting function, and to raise genuine concerns without fear following the successful implementation of reprisals.
Internal controls ofIFRS 9, the Committee reviewed and The Groups internal controls system The Committee reviews the Groups assessed the need to address some which is subject to internal audits ongoing whistleblowing facilities in each of the control findings.
It is satisfied management programme of review and reporting to businesses, which allows employees to has a plan to address these findings and the Committee comprises the following report genuine concerns about suspected will review its implementation in 2019. key elements: impropriety or wrongdoing whether Other than in this area of technical financial or otherwise on a confidential non-cash accounting, no significant a devolved organisational structure with basis, and anonymously if legally weaknesses or control failures were found clear leadership, responsibility and permitted.
The facilities take the form of while identified opportunities to strengthen delegated lines of authority: a free multi-lingual helpline per country of the controls have been taken and will a divisional finance and operating operation provided by an independent third themselves be subject to regular review as performance review conducted on party.
part of internal audits work plan.
a weekly and monthly basis: a key function performance review Reported whistleblowing incidents are Fair, balanced and understandable conducted on a monthly basis: investigated locally in the first instance with The Committee reviewed the Annual a comprehensive annual strategy and monthly summary reports submitted to the Report in terms of its preparation, operating plan review: Group Company Secretary and reviewed control process, verification of content, a robust annual and monthly budgeting, by the Group Executive Committee in case consistency of information including the forecasting and financial reporting a higher level of independent investigation appropriate weighting given to bad news process: is required.
During the year, there were no as well as good news and linkage an approved delegated authorities matrix whistleblowing incidents investigated at between key messages throughout the defining approval limits for the Executive Group level.
A summary incident report is document.
It also received a specific paper and management of various presented to the Board at each meeting.
from management to assist in its challenge classifications of expenditure and and testing of a fair, balanced and An end-to-end effectiveness review of investment: understandable assessment.
the whistleblowing facilities in place in a bottom-up top-down approach to all territories was undertaken during the risk management and internal control: Based on the above, the Committee year this had a positive outcome and various policies, procedures and recommended, and in turn the Board identified the need to issue an updated guidelines underpinning the confirmed, that the 2018 Annual Report, Group Whistleblowing Policy and an development, management, financing taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and annual awareness campaign directive in all and main operations of the business: understandable and provides the territories.
The updated policy will meet the and necessary information for shareholders extended requirements of the new Code specialist professional support services to assess the Companys position and for whistleblowing facilities to be made provided to the business on a central performance, business model and strategy.
available to the whole workforce, to cover and or divisional basis, as appropriate, the reporting of any concerns and for the covering safety and environment, legal Board to routinely review the operation of and compliance, human resources, the facilities.
The practicalities surrounding communications, risk management the implementation of these new policy and insurance, information services, extensions will be addressed during the cyber security, tax, treasury and year.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
