Corporate Governance 52 Effectiveness Board and Committee evaluation In line with the Code, a performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees, and of the Directors, is conducted annually within a three-year cycle, with an external evaluation carried out in the first year of the cycle followed by two successive internal evaluations in years two and three.
The purpose of the evaluation exercise is to identify both opportunities to build on our strengths and areas for further development, and agree the steps to be taken to improve effectiveness.
2017 2018 2019 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 External Internal Internal Evaluation by selected Evaluation focused on core Evaluation focused on independent consultants effectiveness and areas identified reviewing the effectiveness specific basis for development from the Year 1 of new initiatives and progress and approach agreed external evaluation questionnaire on areas identified for development based from the Year 2 internal evaluation questionnaire based plus one-on-one interviews 2018 internal evaluation As in previous years, the Senior Group Chief Executive during the year, As illustrated by the chart above, 2018 Independent Director, in consultation the Non-Executive Directors had become was the second year of a three-year cycle with the other Non-Executive Directors, more involved in the development of the following the external evaluation of the also conducted an annual performance Companys strategy.
As such, they had Board and its Committees undertaken in evaluation of the Chairman and discussed gained a deeper understanding of both 2017.
Accordingly, this year, we conducted the outcome of that directly with him.
its likely evolving nature over the next ten an internal evaluation of the Board, its It concluded that the Chairman continues years or so as technology advances, and Committees and the Directors.
to perform well in his role, chairing Board the principal and emerging risks that could and Nominations Committee meetings, affect its delivery.
The evaluation took the form of an online maintaining good communications and questionnaire which was completed by all In addition to the above, the following managing relationships with Directors Directors.
The questionnaire concentrated strengths were identified: outside of meetings, as well as engaging on key considerations such as Board and with shareholders and the business the Boards and Nominations Committees Committee composition, how well the as appropriate.
keen focus on, and attention to the Board and each Committee fulfils its development of, plans for Executive responsibilities and takes decisions, Conclusions from this years review Director and senior management the quality of information and support The overall outcome of this years internal succession, as well as their focus on provided, the character of discussion evaluation was positive, with the Directors talent and initiatives to further develop and debate in meetings, how strategy concluding that the Board and each of its talent within the business: is developed and how risk is reviewed, as Committees were functioning effectively the Safety & Environment Committees well as the areas identified for development and productively to achieve their purpose, unyielding concentration on the Groups from the 2017 external evaluation.
and performing to a high level of integrity Driving Out Harm programme and its and probity.
The Directors also agreed The Directors responses to the review of progress on implementation there was appropriately open, collaborative questionnaire were reviewed by the of the new Global Safety Policies: and challenging debate at Board and Company Secretary in consultation with the Audit Committees vigilant oversight Committee meetings during which all the Chairman and respective Committee of the Companys financial and internal relevant matters within their remit Chairs.
A final outcome report was controls, particularly its thorough review are covered.
presented to, and discussed by, the Board and development of the internal and each Committee with due recognition A key finding from this years evaluation audit process: being given to those areas of strong was that all Directors are fully engaged performance and those identified with the Companys business and, through for focus and development in 2019. a number of initiatives launched by the National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 53 The overall outcome of this years internal evaluation was positive, with the Directors concluding that the Board and each of its Committees were functioning effectively and productively to achieve their purpose, and to a high level of integrity and probity.
the Remuneration Committees Key areas identified for focus and to increase the time and attention given consistent application of the Directors development in 2019 through the Safety & Environment Remuneration Policy and detailed review The key areas identified from this years Committee to the Groups environmental of the Groups workforce pay policies evaluation for increased focus and objectives and its performance and practices when considering development in 2019 are: against them: executive pay: and to continue to consider and implement to move successfully from the planning the valuable opportunities available the Boards and the Committees plans phase to the implementation phase of and taken by the Board collectively and to address the changes introduced by the Boards Non-Executive Director the Non-Executive Directors individually the new Code, particularly those succession plans: to engage directly with the business, regarding more engagement with the to review the composition and management and the workforce through workforce and the taking into account of membership of the Audit and numerous visits to local operations stakeholder views as part of the general Remuneration Committee to ensure each each year.
decision-making process: and of them comprises the right mix of skills to continue to bring more external and support for the important and viewpoints to the Boards attention.
increasing amount of work they perform: Progress against focus and actions arising from the 2017 external evaluation The progress made against the three principal areas identified for increased focus and actions in 2018 arising from the 2017 external evaluation of the Board and its Committees is set out below: Focus and actions Progress Increased engagement by Led by the Nominations Committee, the Board has undertaken its annual review of senior management the Board with long-term succession planning which this year included potential internal candidates for the CEO position in executive succession and the longer term.
The calibre and development of these candidates against targeted performance leadership planning plans will be kept under review.
Any process to appoint a successor CEO in due course will include consideration of these candidates as well as appropriate external candidates.
The Board received and reviewed for the first time this year the individual development and career progression plans of the Groups Top 20 talent register, which includes those employees identified as having the greatest aptitude to progress to senior leadership roles within the organisation.
This review will be conducted at least annually going forward.
Focus on Board and The Board and Nominations Committee have continued to review and develop succession plans, Committee succession particularly in relation to the Chairman and those Non-Executive Directors who will reach their planning to ensure their nine-year tenure over the next few years.
As those plans are implemented, capability and diversity capability and diversity will be key considerations in the recruitment and appointment process.
continue and are enhanced Bring more external The Boards annual strategy review meeting in September, which this year included a Vision outlook viewpoints to the Board, to 2030 as well as the traditional three-year outlook, incorporated a wide range of external input and including on the rapid viewpoints on the future of the transport sector, both generally and specifically as regards technology, evolution of transport and most notably in relation to the advancement of electric, automated and alternative fuel vehicles.
sector technology As part of that, an external presentation was made to the Board by Bank of America Merrill Lynch BAML, the Companys joint broker.
Other external viewpoints brought to the Boards attention during the year included IBMs landscape review of cyber risk, Tom Harris independent audit of the Groups People Value and BAMLs review of takeover activity in the marketplace and training on unwelcome bid response preparations.
The process of bringing external viewpoints to the Boards attention on relevant topics will continue, as appropriate.
1 Further information is provided in the Nominations Committee Report on pages 58 61.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 54 Effectiveness continued Information and support Existing Directors engage in various forms The Board considers such situations as To enable the Directors to fulfil their duties of ongoing training and development and they arise and decides whether to authorise and responsibilities effectively, they are in 2018 this included: any conflict based on the overriding provided with and given access to all principle that a Director must at all times the regular receipt of written and oral necessary information and support.
This be able to consider and exercise judgement reports from internal experts and includes access to the Company Secretary to promote the success of the Company.
external advisers, including on safety, who acts as Secretary to the Board and The policy has been in place and operated finance, legal, human resources, risk its Committees, senior management and effectively throughout the year.
management and governance matters: functional heads and the ability to obtain, attendance at external training sessions No Director conflict situation currently at the Companys expense, independent and briefing forums, including those exists save in respect of Jorge Cosmen professional advice.
Further details about provided by the Deloitte Academy and a non-independent Non-Executive the role and responsibilities of the other professional advisers: Director as he is a member of the Cosmen Company Secretary can be found on an in-depth review of the future direction family which is a substantial shareholder page 50. of, and risks facing, the mass land in the Company and has close links with To facilitate effective review and decisiontransport industry from the Companys the Groups ALSA business see page 103. making, Directors receive in advance of Commercial Director, supported by the This conflict has been authorised by the meetings high quality papers, including Companys joint broker, BAML, at the Board on the basis that Mr Cosmens from Executive Directors, senior Boards annual strategy review meeting: knowledge of the Spanish transport market management and external advisers, a presentation to the Audit Committee and political environment brings significant who also regularly attend meetings for by IBM on the fast-changing cyber value into the boardroom.
During the year, discussion of specific matters in greater security risk landscape and best practice the Nominations Committee considered depth.
The papers are published via response measures that can be taken: and whether Lee Sanders new appointment a secure web portal which also hosts guidance from BAML on takeover as President Americas of Bombardier a library of other relevant Company activities in the market place and Transportation gave rise to a potential information, including previous meeting associated training on unwelcome conflict situation and concluded that it did papers, minutes and Board procedures.
This is because decisions regarding our RME trains in Germany are normally If a Director is unable to attend a meeting Additionally, to provide Directors with taken at local and or divisional level, not due to illness or exceptional circumstances, opportunities to meet with management, at Board level.
they still receive all supporting papers in engage with employees and increase their advance of the meeting and are directed visibility and working knowledge of the A register of Directors conflicts and to discuss with, and provide input, opinion Groups operations and market dynamics, other appointments is maintained by the and voting instructions to, the relevant the Board aims to visit two Group locations Nominations Committee, together with Chair on the business to be considered each year.
However, only one such visit conflict authorisations previously given, at that meeting.
The Company Secretary took place in 2018, to Boston, which also and regularly reviewed.
provides direct feedback to the absent facilitated a scheduled Board meeting and The Nominations Committee also monitors Director on the key decisions taken at its annual strategy review.
A Board a Directors ability to fully discharge their the meeting.
in Action review of the Boston trip can duties and make a valued contribution to be found on the opposite page.
In addition to Board meetings and private the Board, and that includes monitoring sessions held between the Chairman and The Chairman also undertakes a busy the number of other appointments held the Non-Executive Directors, there are programme of local site and management by Directors outside of the Company.
other opportunities arranged during the visits, which this year focused on the UK.
For Non-Executive Directors, this situation year allowing for informal discussions Similar visits, both at home and overseas, is known and considered when they first between Directors on relevant matters.
are undertaken by other Non-Executive join the Company and permission from the Directors in fulfilment of their roles.
Chairman is required before any additional Induction and ongoing training third party appointment can be accepted and development Conflicts of interest and so that an opportunity exists for any All new Directors receive a structured and other appointments overboarding or conflict risk assessment comprehensive induction programme.
It is The Board operates a policy to identify and to be made.
prepared and arranged by the Chairman manage situations declared by Directors and Company Secretary, with Executive in accordance with their statutory duty Executive Directors are permitted to hold input as necessary, tailored to the to do so in which they or their connected one external non-executive directorship experience and background of the persons have, or may have, an actual with a non-competing company provided individual and the requirements of the or potential conflict of interest with they first obtain Board approval to do so.
With no new Director appointments the Company.
No such external appointments are currently made in the year, no induction programmes held by any of the Executive Directors.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 55 The Board in Action Engaging with the workforce The Strategic Initiatives Circuit was a great way to meet the wider North America management team, including some new appointees, and discuss the strategy and various initiatives they are following.
It also gave me a first-hand impression of the progress we are making and the development opportunities which exist in such an important major territory of the Group.
Matthew Crummack, Non-Executive Director The importance for the Board to get individual site visits both at home and provided an excellent opportunity to build out and about, and to be seen doing abroad throughout the year as an integral on existing relationships and bed in new so, cannot be too strongly emphasised.
part of performing their duties.
It gives the Board visibility and enables In September, the Board went to the USA Additionally, the Board visited two the Non-Executive Directors to gain where we have more than 260 sites, which Customer Service Centres CSCs in the a better understanding of operational makes it a little difficult for the Board to region, one in School Bus and one in matters, safety considerations, key get around.
So this year we decided to Transit.
The Directors toured the facilities performance drivers and the risks and bring some of our regional and local and received presentations from challenges facing the business.
It also management teams together in Boston to management and employees about the provides them with the opportunity to host teach-ins and hold one-on-one operations and their role within them.
They engage with local management and meetings with the Non-Executive Directors spent time with drivers and maintenance employees.
While this invaluable on various aspects of the North America technicians, saw first-hand how the new experience cannot be replicated in the business as part of a Strategic Initiatives Target Zero safety campaign had been boardroom, it is there where the benefits Circuit afternoon.
This relaxed forum embraced, had lunch with the workforce can be found as the Non-Executives proved very successful in helping to build and gained valuable insight into the increase both their personal and collective knowledge and improve understanding in Groups culture and values and how those contribution to the Boards effectiveness.
each of the specific areas covered.
An are interpreted and exist locally.
With the above in mind, the Board aims to informal dinner attended by the Directors, visit two overseas operations each year, the North America management team and with many of the Directors also undertaking all presenters from the afternoons session Above: The highly sought after ASE Blue Seal of Excellence on display in the maintenance workshop at The Ride in Boston While I undertake many site visits on my Below: Members of the Board receive a teach-in session from Judith own each year, there is real value in one or Crawford, CEO Transit and EVP Commercial Development two such field trips being undertaken by the Board as a whole, as we did to Boston this year.
It gives the Directors a chance to spend time together, see our operations together and speak with management and our highly motivated staff together.
The value this adds in helping to inform discussion and improve our performance in the boardroom is significant.
Chris Muntwyler, Non-Executive Director National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
