Nomination Committee Report Membership and meetings Diversity The composition of the Nomination Committee is described Appointments to the Board, as with other positions within on page 55: Lord Wolfson is also invited to attend meetings.
the Group, are made on merit according to the balance of The Committee held one formal meeting during the year as skills and experience offered by prospective candidates.
well as regular informal discussions on succession plans and new NEXT acknowledges the benefits of diversity in terms of business appointments to the Board.
experience and individual appointments are made irrespective of personal characteristics such as race, religion or gender.
The Committee will always seek to appoint the candidate with Committee activities the most appropriate skills and experience.
The Committees roles and responsibilities are covered in Employment positions throughout the Company are filled with its Terms of Reference, which were last reviewed in January the candidates who possess the most appropriate skills and 2018.
A copy of the Terms of Reference is available on our competencies relevant for the particular job role.
NEXT has a corporate website www.
Annual evaluation of policy to treat all employees fairly and equally regardless of the Nomination Committees performance is undertaken as part gender, sexual orientation, marital status, race, colour, nationality, of the Board evaluation process: further details are included on religion, ethnic or national origin, age, disability or union page 64. membership status.
Board appointments process Although we do not set specific targets for diversity, women currently represent 44% of our Board and 47% of our senior The Committee adopts a formal and transparent procedure for leadership team.
NEXT was ranked first in the 2017 Hamptonthe appointment of new directors to the Board.
Alexander Review FTSE Women Leaders: Improving gender External consultants may be used to assist in identifying suitable balance in FTSE leadership.
Further analysis of employees by external Board candidates, based on a written specification for gender is given in the Strategic Report on page 48. each appointment.
The Chairman is responsible for providing a shortlist of candidates for consideration by the Nomination Committee which then makes its recommendation for final approval by the Board.
The Nomination Committee is led by the Senior Independent Director when dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Board chairmanship.
New Board appointments In February 2018, the Company announced that Michael Law will step down from the Board at the close of the 2018 AGM, prior to retiring from the business in July 2018.
At the same time, we also announced that Richard Papp would be appointed as an executive director with effect from 14 May 2018.
NEXT has a good track record of internal promotions to the Board and has not made an external appointment of an executive director for over 29 years.
Richard will stand for election at the 2018 AGM and, subject to the outcome of that process, will become Group Merchandise and Operations Director with effect from the end of the AGM.
Richard has been with NEXT for 25 years.
He joined the Group in 1991 as a Merchandiser, becoming a Merchandise Manager in 1996 and was promoted to Menswear Product Director in 2001.
In 2005 he gained valuable experience in a similar role at another retailer, returning to NEXT in 2006 to take up the role of Group Merchandise Director.
In this role he is responsible for NEXTs Merchandising function, Product Systems, International Franchise, and Clearance operations.
He has worked extremely closely with our Warehousing, Logistics and Systems teams to develop our online platform and is perfectly placed to lead the continued development of the Groups operations.
