Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Audit Committee Report Chairmans Introduction This is my first report as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
I joined the Board in October 2016 and became Chairman of the Committee in May 2017.
My priority since then has been to invest time in visiting areas of the business, meeting with NEXT management teams and understanding the risk management framework and internal controls of the business.
During the year the Audit Committee has continued to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, controls, internal audit and external audit.
It has reviewed and challenged management on the robustness and effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems, ensuring that it discusses key matters directly with the relevant senior management where necessary.
In particular, this year the Committee has continued to pay attention to data and cyber security: good progress is being made in identifying and managing these risks.
Following an audit tender during 2016 and the appointment at the 2017 AGM of  LLP PwC, the Committee oversaw a smooth transition from the previous auditor Ernst & Young LLP.
We are pleased with the professional and effective delivery of the first year external audit by PwC.
The significant activities of the Committee during the year are set out below.
Finally, I should also like to thank the management team at NEXT and all Audit Committee members for their work and support during the year.
Jonathan Bewes Chairman of the Audit Committee 23 March 2018 Membership and meetings Review of financial statements The composition of the Committee is described on page 55.
The Committee reviews the financial statements of the Group The Committees wide range of financial and commercial skills and assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been and experience serves to provide the necessary expertise and adopted and whether management has made appropriate knowledge required for the efficient and robust working of estimates and judgements.
The Committee is satisfied that the the Committee.
The Audit Committee Chairman, a Chartered judgements made by management are reasonable, and that Accountant, possesses recent and relevant financial experience suitable accounting policies have been adopted and appropriate and the Committee as a whole continues to have competence disclosures have been made in the accounts.
relevant to the Retail sector.
The Committees review of the half year and full year financial The Committee holds regular, structured meetings and consults statements focused on the following areas of significance, all of with external auditors and senior management, including which were discussed and addressed with our external auditor internal audit, where appropriate.
Audit Committee members throughout the full year external audit process.
There were no attendance is detailed on page 63.
In addition, the Group Finance significant differences between management and external Director attended all of this years meetings.
frequently requests that executive directors and senior managers a. Online customer receivables and related provisions for attend meetings in order to reinforce a strong culture of risk doubtful debts.
These, at 1.1bn, represent the largest asset management and to keep the Committee up to date with events class on the Groups Balance Sheet.
Based on detailed reports and through discussions with management and the external auditor, the Committee Committee activities reviewed and assessed the basis and level of provisions The Committees roles and responsibilities are covered in its 138.7m as disclosed in Note 11 of the financial statements Terms of Reference, which were last reviewed in January 2018. and their sensitivity and is satisfied that the judgements A copy of the Terms of Reference is available on our corporate made were reasonable, consistent with the prior year website www.
The Committees main activities and appropriate.
during the financial year are described in the following sections.
Pension scheme funding, accounting and actuarial reports.
b. IFRS 9 Financial instruments will be effective for the year Prepared in accordance with International Accounting ending January 2019 onwards, the main impact being the Standards, the Groups Balance Sheet shows a net surplus impairment assessment methodology used to value our of 106.2m, comprised of 936.5m assets and 830.3m Online customer receivables.
The Group has completed an liabilities.
This compares with a net surplus of 62.9m in the assessment of the impact of IFRS 9 and it is expected that previous year.
adoption will not have a material impact on the Consolidated Income Statement or Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Process and The Committee reviewed the actuarial assumptions underlying modelling amendments will be implemented in line with the the calculations and was satisfied that they are reasonable.
They are highly sensitive to small changes, particularly in respect of discount rates and inflation, and are not intended c. IFRS 16 Leases will be effective for the year ending January to reflect the full cost of a fully funded pension buyout refer to 2020 onwards and the impact on the financial statements will Note 18 of the financial statements.
On the adoption of IFRS 16, lease agreements will give rise to both a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for c. Hedge accounting.
Forward contracts and options are used future lease payables.
The right-of-use asset will be depreciated to manage the Sterling cost of future product purchases: this on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Interest will be provides certainty to the cost of purchases and therefore recognised on the lease liability, resulting in a higher interest enables selling prices and gross margins to be set.
Interest rate expense in the earlier years of the lease term.
There will be no swap arrangements are used to reduce the Groups exposure impact on cash flows although the presentation of the Cash to changes in interest rates.
Flow Statement will change significantly.
The Committee discussed the systems and processes The Audit Committee received regular updates from the in relation to the valuation and accounting treatment of IFRS 16 project team to ensure all necessary steps to comply such contracts with management and the external auditor.
with the requirements of this standard were being taken.
In addition, the Board reviewed and renewed the detailed Significant work has been completed to date, including operating authority framework and limits in place for execution collection of relevant data, changes to IT systems and processes of such arrangements.
and the determination of relevant accounting policies.
The Committee reviewed and agreed The Group intends to apply the fully retrospective approach the methodology for calculating the net realisable values of on transition and will restate prior year comparatives.
inventories, which has been applied consistently.
Further details are provided in the Group Accounting Policies e. Other accounting estimates.
The Committee reviewed reports section of the financial statements on page 112. on the reasonableness and consistency of other estimates in the financial statements such as product return rates and Viability statement property provisions.
Through discussions with management and the external auditor, the Committee is satisfied that they and going concern remain appropriate and reasonable.
The Committee performed a detailed review of the Groups projected cash flows, facilities and covenants which covered a New accounting standards three year period our viability assessment period.
The proposed approach was discussed and agreed by the Committee in During the year the Committee considered the potential November 2017 and followed up in March 2018 by reviewing impact on the Groups financial statements of three new the Groups financial position and performance, budgets for accounting standards: 2018 19 and three year cash projections which were stress tested a. IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers will be for different scenarios having regard to the principal risks faced effective for the year ending January 2019 onwards, and will by the business.
The Committee reported to the Board that, in not impact the Groups profit.
The majority of the Groups its view, the going concern assumption remains appropriate.
sales are for standalone products made direct to customers at In addition, as regards the Groups viability assessment, the standard prices either in-store or online.
Estimates are already directors confirmed that they have a reasonable expectation that made of anticipated returns and sales awaiting delivery to the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as the customer.
Certain income streams totalling around 30m they fall due over the three year review period.
Further details of currently netted off costs will be recognised as statutory this review are on page 47. revenue on transition to IFRS 15.
The alternative performance measure total sales will not be adjusted for the impact of IFRS 15.
68 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Other activities Risk management During the year the Committee received reports and and internal control presentations from senior management on other significant The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of risk activities of the Group, including regulatory compliance and management, and during the year has reviewed the key risks developments, tax, modern slavery, corporate responsibility, together with the associated controls and mitigating factors.
suppliers and Code of Practice ethical and responsible sourcing Further details regarding the risk framework and approach, and treasury activities.
The Groups internal controls in areas together with details of NEXTs principal risks and risk assessment such as finance, IT and product are also regularly reviewed by are on page 42. the Committee.
Frequent updates are received on health and safety, risk management, business continuity, whistleblowing and Internal audit corporate governance.
The Committee reviewed the level of internal audit resource, Whistleblowing experience and expertise, and believes that it is adequate for the size, structure and business risks of the Group and The Companys whistleblowing procedures ensure that is supplemented with appropriate external resources arrangements are in place to enable employees, suppliers and where needed.
other third parties to raise concerns about possible improprieties on a confidential basis.
These were reviewed and updated in The Committee reviews and approves the scope of the internal the year.
The Committee requested that an update of reported audit work plan and ensures it is aligned to the key risks of the issues is provided at each Audit Committee meeting and relevant business.
The Committee reviews the results of internal audit follow up actions are discussed and agreed.
work performed and meets the Head of Internal Audit without management present to discuss the internal audit charter, External auditor resources and audit plans.
The Head of Internal Audit attends all Audit Committee meetings and provides regular reports Effectiveness and updates both to the Committee and the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to all The Committee had discussions with the external auditor on Committee members and is given the opportunity to meet the audit planning, fees, accounting policies, audit findings and Committee Chairman and Committee members separately.
The external auditor attended all of this years During the year the Committee Chairman met the Head of Committee meetings.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness Internal Audit twice to carry out formal reviews of the internal of the external audit through the review of audit plans, reports audit departments resources, approach, work performed and and conclusions and through discussions with management results.
The Committee is satisfied that the internal audit function both with and without the external auditor present and with the has continued to perform effectively during the year.
external auditor both with and without management present.
As 2017 18 was PwCs first year as the Groups external auditor, IT systems and cyber security the Committee also paid particular attention to ensuring that it was satisfied with the effectiveness and timeliness of audit The operations of the Group are highly reliant on its IT systems.
planning, scope and deliverables, and that PwC had allowed The Committee asked for regular updates from the IT and sufficient time and resources to understand and assess the operations teams covering various aspects of IT and cyber business, its key risks and controls.
The Committee was satisfied security.
In this rapidly moving area, there is inevitably a risk that that the audit was effective.
a systems failure or cyber attack could cause significant business disruption.
Substantial resources are therefore devoted to the In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly meets development and security of the Groups IT systems.
Cyber risk with the Audit Partner, Andrew Lyon, outside formal meetings.
has been on the agenda at each Committee meeting this year.
The Committee is satisfied that PwC possesses the skills and Following the previous years independent cyber security review, experience required to fulfil its duties effectively and efficiently.
a cyber risk strategic plan and an independent review update were discussed at Audit Committee meetings during the year.
Please refer to more detail provided on page 42 of the principal risks section of the Strategic Report.
69 Audit Committee Report Independence and objectivity External audit tender PwC has reported to the Committee that, in its professional The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the judgement, it is independent within the meaning of regulatory Board the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit external auditor.
engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Audit As disclosed in last years Audit Committee Report, and Committee has assessed the independence of the auditor, and following changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and concurs with this statement.
EU Regulation requiring auditor tendering and rotation, during 2016 the Committee led a process to select a new external Non-audit work carried auditor.
Details of the audit tender process were disclosed in the 2016 17 Audit Committee report.
A resolution to propose the out by the external auditor appointment of PwC was approved by shareholders at the 2017 In order to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of AGM.
The Committee has assessed and positively concluded the Groups external auditor, the Board has strict policies regarding on the effectiveness of the external audit: further details of this the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
review are provided on page 69.
The Committees approval is required in advance for the provision of any non-audit services if the fee exceeds 100,000 CMA Order 2014 Statement for an individual assignment, or if the aggregate non-audit fees of Compliance for the year exceed the lower of 150,000 or 20% of the audit fee.
The Committee reviews audit and non-audit fees twice a year.
NEXT confirms that it was in compliance with the provisions Proposed assignments of non-audit services with anticipated of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market fees in excess of 50,000 are generally subject to competitive Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes tender and decisions on the award of work are made on the and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the basis of competence, cost effectiveness and legislation.
A tender financial year ended 27 January 2018. process may not be undertaken where existing knowledge of the Group enables the auditor to provide the relevant services more cost effectively than other parties.
The Groups external auditor is prohibited from providing any services that would conflict with their statutory responsibilities or which would otherwise compromise their objectivity or independence.
During the year, PwCs audit fee amounted to 0.6m and PwCs non-audit fees were 0.1m in total.
In line with the above policy, appropriate advance approval was obtained from the Committee.
Further details are provided in Note 3 of the financial statements.
In line with the new EU audit reform regulations which came into force for NEXT for the first time for the financial year 2017 18, the Audit Committee has set in place procedures to ensure only permitted non-audit services are provided by the auditor and these are in line with the above policy.
These procedures will also ensure that the new cap on permitted non-audit services of 70% of the average Group audit fee paid on a rolling three year basis is not exceeded, even though this will not apply to NEXT until the financial year 2020 21.
