Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction Corporate governance, especially directors duties, diversity and remuneration, has remained in the spotlight in 2017.
The Board is very mindful of its responsibilities in this area and will continue to develop and refine its approach and practices.
The Board considers the culture at NEXT to be an essential ingredient in meeting our objective of delivering long term, sustainable returns to shareholders.
We have a very hands on executive team who work day-to-day with senior management to drive a clear focus on product quality and value, and on meeting or exceeding the expectations of our customers regarding their experience and satisfaction.
Our directors and senior management promote NEXTs culture and standards throughout the business and lead by example to provide a strong corporate governance framework.
NEXT has a long history of creating shareholder value against the backdrop of challenging and changing external environments.
This is the ultimate measure of our success and is supported by our strong corporate governance structure and an effective management team.
In a challenging trading environment, we remain committed to a robust approach to governance which has served the business well.
Michael Roney Chairman 23 March 2018 by the Chief Executive.
The system of internal control is designed Compliance with UK to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Corporate Governance absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for it and Code holds regular meetings where it approves major decisions, The Company complied throughout the year under review with including investments, treasury and dividend policies and the provisions set out in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance significant items of capital expenditure.
The Board is responsible Code the Code which is the version of the Code that applies for approving semi-annual Group budgets.
Performance against to its 2017 18 financial year.
The sections below detail how the budget is reported to the Board monthly and any substantial Company has complied with the Code, which is available from variances are explained.
Forecasts for each half year are revised the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
Certain other important matters are These disclosures are ordered into the sections as they appear subject to weekly or monthly reporting to the Board or Board in the Code.
Committee, including sales, treasury operations and capital expenditure programmes.
Board papers including reports from Disclosures required by the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency the Chief Executive and other executive directors are circulated Rules DTR 7.2.
6, with regard to share capital are presented in in advance of each Board meeting.
the Share capital and major shareholders and Additional information sections of the Directors Report on pages 60 and In addition, our executive directors drive forward operational 61.
8 relating to diversity policy business strategies by way of attendance at key trading meetings are presented in the Nomination Committee Report on page 66. and working closely with our business areas on a day-to-day basis.
This style of management serves to align with our risk Directors biographies and membership of Board Committees management framework and facilitates senior management are set out on pages 54 and 55. setting the tone from the top.
Leadership Management delegation The Chief Executive has delegated authority for the day-toA.
1 Role of the Board day management of the business to operational management The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of drawn from executive directors and other senior management the Company and for setting and executing the business strategy.
who have responsibility for their respective areas.
The most important management meetings are the weekly NEXT Brand The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership whilst trading and capital expenditure meetings which consider the delegating more detailed matters to its Committees and officers performance and development of the NEXT Brand through including the Chief Executive.
The Board sets strategic priorities its different distribution channels.
These and other senior and oversees their delivery in a way that enables sustainable long management meetings cover risk management of all business term growth.
The Board is responsible for setting and monitoring areas in respect of the NEXT Brand, including product, sales, the Groups risk appetite and the system of risk management and property, warehousing, systems and personnel.
Key performance internal control and for monitoring implementation of its policies indicators are monitored daily, weekly and monthly.
62 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Attendance at Board and Committee meetings A.
3 The Chairman The Board held ten formal meetings during the year, the Audit The role of Chairman is to lead the Board, ensuring it operates Committee held four meetings, the Remuneration Committee effectively and contains the right balance of skills and experience.
held five meetings and the Nomination Committee held one He is also responsible for promoting a healthy culture of meeting.
All meetings were fully attended by the relevant Board openness, challenge and scrutiny, and ensuring constructive or Committee members.
relations between executive and non-executive directors.
The Board has appointed Committees to carry out certain of its Michael Roney succeeded John Barton as Chairman when duties, three of which are detailed below.
Each of these is chaired he retired on 1 August 2017.
Michael met the independence by a different director and has written terms of reference which requirements set out in the UK Corporate Code on appointment.
were last reviewed and updated in January 2018 and are available His other significant commitments are noted on page 54, and on our corporate website or on request.
the Board considers that these are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
Audit Committee The Committee consists of the four independent nonA.
4 Non-executive directors executive directors and at least one member Jonathan Bewes, the Committee Chairman has recent and relevant financial Francis Salway is our Senior Independent Director.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 67 to 70 Meetings of the non-executive directors without the executive describes the role and activities of the Committee.
directors being present are held at least annually, both with and without the Chairman.
Remuneration Committee The Committee consists of the Chairman and all four of the B.
Effectiveness independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Caroline Goodall.
The Committee determines the remuneration of the B.
1 Composition of the Board executive directors in accordance with the Remuneration Policy and reviews the remuneration of senior management.
Page 86 of The Board currently includes four independent non-executive the Remuneration Report summarises the role and activities of directors and the Chairman who all bring considerable knowledge, the Committee.
judgement and experience to the Group.
As is best practice, we continually assess and refresh the Board to ensure we maintain an Nomination Committee appropriate balance of skills and experience and the Board has a The Committee consists of the Chairman and all four of the good record of recruiting new non-executive directors at regular independent non-executive directors.
The Committee meets intervals to achieve appropriate rotation and continuity.
whenever necessary to consider succession planning for directors There were a number of changes to the Board during the year.
and other senior executives and to ensure that requisite skills and After fifteen years on the Board, John Barton retired as Chairman expertise are available to the Board to address future challenges on 1 August 2017 and was succeeded at that time by Michael and opportunities.
The Nomination Committee Report on page Roney.
Michael had been appointed on 14 February 2017 as a non- 66 summarises the role and activities of the Committee and executive director, Deputy Chairman and Chairman Designate.
describes the Board appointment process and its approach to diversity.
Steve Barber stepped down from the Board at the end of the 2017 AGM after serving on the Board for ten years.
At that time, Jonathan Bewes succeeded him as Chairman of the A.
2 Division of responsibilities Audit Committee.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the offices The Board also appointed Richard Papp as an executive director of Chairman and Chief Executive, which is set out in writing with effect from 14 May 2018.
Richard will succeed Michael Law and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman manages the Board when he steps down from the Board at the end of the 2018 to ensure that the Group has appropriate objectives and an AGM.
Further details about his appointment are provided in the effective strategy: that there is a high calibre Chief Executive with Nomination Committee Report on page 66. a team of executive directors able to implement the strategy: that there are procedures in place to inform the Board of performance Francis Salway is our longest serving non-executive director, against objectives: and that the Group is operating in accordance having first been elected at the 2011 AGM.
The Code requires with a high standard of corporate governance.
that any term beyond six years for a non-executive director should be subject to a particularly rigorous review, and should take The Board sets objectives and annual targets for the Chief into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Board is responsible for general After giving thorough consideration to the matter, the Board policy on how these objectives are achieved and delegates the consider that Francis Salways independence, skills and experience implementation of that policy to the Chief Executive.
The Chief allow him to continue to make a very effective contribution as a Executive is required to report at each Board meeting all material non-executive director and Senior Independent Director.
matters affecting the Group and its performance.
The Board also considers that all of its non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement, and their knowledge, diversity of experience and other business interests continue to enable them to contribute significantly to the work of the Board.
63 Corporate Governance constructive, with a strong focus on shareholder interests and that B.
2 Appointments to the Board the non-executives have a broad range of skills and experience For information on the procedure for appointment of new and a good degree of commitment.
directors to the Board, and the role of the Nomination Committee The Board intends to conduct the next externally facilitated in this process, refer to the Nomination Committee Report on review during 2018 19, in line with the Codes recommendation page 66. that one is conducted every three years.
3 Commitment The Senior Independent Director leads the appraisal of the performance of the Chairman through discussions with all the Following the Board evaluation process, detailed further below, directors individually and, together with the Chairman, appraises the Board is satisfied that each of the directors is able to allocate the performance of the Chief Executive.
The performance of the sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities executive directors is monitored throughout the year by the Chief effectively.
No executive director holds any non-executive Executive and the Chairman.
The Chairman also monitors the directorships outside the Group.
performance of the non-executive directors.
Contracts and letters of appointment of directors are made available at the AGM, and are available for inspection at the B.
7 Re-election Companys registered office during normal business hours or The Companys Articles of Association require directors to submit on request.
themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
However, the Board has determined that all directors B.
4 Development will stand for re-election or election at each AGM in accordance On joining the Board, new members receive a personalised with the Code, with the exception of Michael Law who will be induction, tailored to their experience, background and stepping down from the Board at the close of the 2018 AGM.
understanding of the Groups operations.
Individual training and development needs are reviewed as part of the annual Board C. Accountability evaluation process and training is provided where requested or a need is identified.
All directors receive frequent updates on C. 1 Financial and business reporting a variety of issues relevant to the Groups business, including Please refer to: legal, regulatory and governance issues, with visits to stores and warehouse operations organised periodically to assist page 61 for the Boards statement on the Annual Report and with directors understanding of the operational aspects of Accounts being fair, balanced and understandable: the business.
page 99 for details of the Independent Auditors responsibilities: and B.
5 Information and support pages 38 and 39 of the Strategic Report for an explanation of There is a regular flow of written and oral information between the Companys business model and strategy for delivering the all directors irrespective of the timing of Board meetings.
The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance Going concern and viability assessment matters and facilitating the flow of information within the Board.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely Should directors judge it necessary to seek independent advice to affect its future development, performance and position about the performance of their duties with the Company, they are set out in the Strategic Report, which also describes the are entitled to do so at the Companys expense.
Details of Groups financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities.
professional assistance in relation to Remuneration Policy matters Further information on these areas is detailed in the financial are shown on page 86. statements.
Information on the Groups financial management objectives, and how derivative instruments are used to hedge B.
6 Evaluation its capital, credit and liquidity risks is provided in Note 24 of the financial statements.
This year an internal evaluation of the Board and Committees was completed with the process being facilitated by the Company The directors report that, having reviewed current performance Secretary.
The review covered all aspects of the effectiveness of and forecasts, they have a reasonable expectation that the the Board and its Committees including composition, experience, Group has adequate resources to continue its operations for the dynamics, the Chairmans leadership, and the Boards role and foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt responsibilities with particular regard to strategy, oversight of the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
All directors continue to be of the The directors have also assessed the prospects of the Company opinion that the Board and its Committees were functioning over a three year period.
Further details of the viability assessment effectively and that the processes underpinning the Boards are provided on page 47. effectiveness remained appropriate.
An externally facilitated review was carried out in the 2015 16 financial year by Independent Audit Limited.
This review highlighted that the Board dynamics were positive and 64 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information C. 2 Risk management E. Relations with shareholders and internal control E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management The Company actively engages with investors and the Chief process and has delegated responsibility for its implementation Executive and Group Finance Director are involved in regular oneto the Chief Executive and senior management best qualified to-one meetings, roadshows and conferences with institutional in each area of the business.
The Board sets guidance on the investors.
During the year a large number of formal investor general level of risk which is acceptable and has a considered meetings were held, supplemented by many other calls and approach to evaluating risk and reward and promoting a risk meetings which Lord Wolfson and Amanda James undertook.
aware culture throughout the business.
There is also regular communication with institutional investors The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal on key business issues.
risks facing the Company and has also conducted an annual The Board communicates with its shareholders in respect of the review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control Groups business activities through its Annual Report, yearly and during the year.
Please refer to page 42 in the Strategic Report half yearly announcements and other regular trading statements.
Risk management and internal control Full year and other public announcements are presented is a continuous process and has been considered by the Board in a consistent format with a particular focus on making the on a regular basis throughout the year.
This includes identifying presentations as meaningful, understandable and comparable as and evaluating principal risks, determining control strategies possible.
This information is also made publicly available via our and considering how they may impact on the achievement of corporate website www.
The Board promotes the development of a strong control culture within the business.
The Audit The Companys largest shareholders are invited to the annual Committee regularly reviews strategic and operational risk, and and half year results presentations, at which executive and nonhas reviewed the principal risks described on pages 43 to 46 executive directors are present.
Non-executive directors attend and the associated controls and mitigating factors.
The Audit other meetings with shareholders if requested.
Our shareholder Committee discusses these risks with the relevant directors and views are also communicated to the Board through regular senior management both at Committee meetings and via other reports of shareholder feedback and statements made by face to face meetings held during the year where required.
Whilst the Board recognises that it is primarily accountable to the Companys shareholders, the views The Board considers that the Groups management structure and of other providers of capital are also considered.
continuous monitoring of key performance indicators provide the opportunity to identify promptly any material areas of concern.
The Board takes care not to disseminate information of a share Business continuity plans, procedures manuals and codes of price sensitive nature which is not available to the market as conduct are maintained in respect of specific major risk areas and a whole.
Through these measures the management of business risk is an integral part of Group policy and the Board E. 2 Constructive use of the will continue to develop risk management and internal controls Annual General Meeting where necessary.
All shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions or represent The use of a Group accounting manual and prescribed reporting their views formally to the Board at the AGM, or informally with requirements for finance teams throughout the Group ensures directors after the meeting.
that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and consistently applied.
Information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process and the use Other disclosures of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented consistently to facilitate the Directors conflicts of interest production of the consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors situational conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those For further information on the Companys compliance with the directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
Code provision relating to the Audit Committee and auditors, In deciding whether to authorise a situational conflict, the nonplease refer to the Audit Committee Report on pages 69 and 70. conflicted directors consider the situation in conjunction with their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
They may impose limits or conditions when giving an authorisation or D. Remuneration subsequently if considered appropriate.
Any situational conflicts For further information on the Companys compliance with the considered by the Board, and any authorisations given, are Code provision relating to remuneration, please refer to the recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of conflicts which Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 87. is reviewed annually by the Board.
