Governance Corporate Governance Report Governance foreword In this Corporate Governance Report, the Board sets out its governance structures and processes and discusses some of the Governance areas that the Board has focussed on in the last 12 months.
These include: An externally facilitated Board Evaluation: A change to Board Committees to refresh their membership: A review of the provisions of the new version of the UK Corporate Governance Code effective for reporting periods on or after 1 January 2019 and the early implementation of some aspects of that Code: The review and updating of the Groups ethical policies and Whistleblowing procedures and adoption of a new Modern Slavery Policy.
The Board will continue to review and develop its governance processes as the Group evolves, not simply to tick a governance box but to ensure that they remain appropriate to the NMC Group and the management of the Group for shareholders on an ongoing basis.
MARK TOMPKINS DR B. R. SHETTY Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman Non-Executive Joint Chairman Introduction The Board is responsible for, and committed to, ensuring that procedures are in place so that good standards of corporate governance are operated at all levels in the Group.
In this Corporate Governance Report we review ourselves in accordance with the guidance and principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website, frc.
The Board, supported by its Committees and the Senior Management team, have in place a governance and control environment which they believe are both appropriate for the NMC Group and consistent with the standards which would be expected of a FTSE 100 Company listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
The Board ensures that governance processes are documented and implemented and, where appropriate, continue to be improved.
The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance against the provisions of the Code and believes that the Company was compliant with the provisions of the Code for the 2018 Financial Year.
This Governance section describes how the Board has applied Corporate Governance principles during the 2018 financial year.
The Company operates within a traditional governance framework: Joint Chairmen Board Senior Group Board Independent CEO Company Committees Non-Executive Secretary Director Senior Management Team 42 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information The roles and responsibilities of each of the individuals and groups above, and their role in the overall governance framework, are set out below.
The Board The role of the Board The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and: for the long term success of the Company ensuring that it meets its responsibilities towards all stakeholders: demonstrating leadership and focussing on matters that affect shareholder value: determining the strategic direction of the Group: and for ensuring the effectiveness of, and reporting on, the risks facing the Group and the systems of governance and internal control in place in the Group.
The Board seeks at all times to ensure that there is an appropriate balance between short term and long term considerations and objectives of the Group.
The Board has the powers and duties as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has agreed a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board including: approval of strategic plans: approval of major capital projects, acquisitions and divestments: approval of long term financing plans: setting the annual budget: risk management and internal control systems and processes to ensure that the Group is managed appropriately: and approving the half-year and annual results and financial statements.
Specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees, details of which are set out on pages 47 to 56 or to the Chief Executive Officer who is responsible for delivering the Companys strategic objectives.
Board composition and independence The Company has controlling shareholders and therefore ensures that it keeps under review the independence of individual Directors and the Board as a whole.
The Executive Directors and any Non-Executive Directors representing the interests of the Companys controlling shareholders are not considered to be independent by the Board.
The Board of the Company currently comprises ten directors, the majority of whom have served on the Board for six years or less: the Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman the Non-Executive Joint Chairman three Executive Directors five Independent Non-Executive Directors one Non-Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Non-Executive Tenure of Non-Executive Directors 5 Years 7 Years 3 7 Executive Non-Executive 6 Years 30% 70% 7 Years 43% 29% 14% 14% Jonathan Bomford is our Senior Independent Director having joined the NMC Board in June 2013.
In 2015 he was invited to join the Board of Travelex, a private company owned by one of our principal shareholders, Dr B. R Shetty.
He was invited to join the Travelex Board to bring his independent outlook, governance experience and professional approach and advice to that board.
Mr Bomford has no other interest in Travelex.
Mr Bomford has advised that his role on the Travelex Board is coming to a conclusion and he anticipates he will resign from the Travelex Board by 31 March 2019.
This cross directorship has been reviewed regularly and, with the background summarised above, the Board consider that such a position does not affect Mr Bomfords independence.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Board continued Board composition and independence continued The Board currently has three Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
In relation to the Non-Executive Directors, both Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Abdulrahman Basaddiq were appointed as representatives of the Principal Shareholders under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between the Shareholders and the Company, and are therefore not Independent.
The Board has considered the independence of the remaining five Non-Executive Directors and consider them to be Independent.
The Board therefore considers that it is independent.
The Senior Independent Director is Jonathan Bomford, who is available to shareholders should they have any concerns that they do not wish to raise with the Company or either of the Joint Chairmen directly.
The Senior Independent Director can be contacted through the UK corporate office, and registered office, of the Company.
Board Diversity The Board considers that the extensive and diverse business, cultural and operational experience of all the Directors, both Independent and non-Independent, ensures a good balance in all aspects of Group decision making and control.
The above attributes also enable the Board to take account of diverse and independent judgement to bear on key issues of: strategy, including constructively challenging the strategic direction of the Group: the consideration of acquisition proposals and long term financing of the Groups growth strategy: scrutinising and challenging the performance of the Group: assessing risk and controls operating within the Group and in its decision making: and standards of conduct and governance and other matters presented to the Board.
Therefore the Board is structured to ensure that: an appropriate cultural and ethnic mix is in place considering the Companys listing in the UK and its diversified operations, the vast majority of which are in the GCC, as well as global drivers and practice in healthcare related services: the conclusions of the Davis Report on Women on Boards, and in particular the benefits of male and female representation on the Board, are taken into account: and the individual skills and experience that Directors bring to the Board are well balanced.
The Board will continue to consider and balance the wide range of different attributes required by the Board when considering future Board appointments.
These attributes include appropriate skills, geographic and business sector experience, gender and cultural balance.
Board diversity as at the date of this report is as follows: Gender of Board Nationalities of the Board UK 4 UAE 3 Male Female Indian 2 80% 20% Kenyan 1 40% 30% 20% 10% Similar practices to ensure a diverse employee base are also operated within the Groups businesses and the diversity of employees in the Group is summarised in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 26 to 33.
44 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Key roles and responsibilities in the governance structure The roles of the Chairmen and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman The Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman was appointed to the Board in March 2012 in anticipation of the Companys IPO.
He was independent at the time of his appointment and is considered to be independent by the Board.
Alongside his Co-chair, the Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman is responsible for the proper functioning of the Companys Board of directors including: the effective operation and governance of the Board setting the agenda and coordinating the style and tone of Board discussions The Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman takes the lead in chairing board meetings.
Non-Executive Joint Chairman The Non-Executive Joint Chairman previously held the positions of CEO and Executive Vice Chairman of the Company.
His wealth of experience, his deep knowledge of the business and the management team, as well as his unrivalled contacts in the sector and region built over forty years continue to be invaluable to the Group.
His current role enables him to continue to be available to guide the Board and guide and mentor management as required as we continue to grow the business and deliver shareholder value.
Chief Executive Officer The CEO is responsible for identifying, with the Senior Management Team, opportunities that are deemed appropriate and in line with the Boards strategic objectives.
He is also responsible for delivering the key strategic objectives set by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer is assisted in this task by his Senior Management Team who meet regularly to discuss the performance of the business, new development opportunities as well as other material matters arising within the business.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Joint Chairmen and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors as required.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not managed to resolve through the normal channels of the Joint Chairmen or the Executive Directors, or who feel that such contact is inappropriate for the concerns that they may have.
The biography of each individual holding the above positions is set out on pages 38 to 39.
Board meetings The Group Company Secretary supports the Joint Chairmen in finalising an agenda for each Board meeting and ensuring that appropriate papers are circulated in a timely manner in advance of each Board and Board Committee meeting to ensure that fully informed decisions can be reached.
Board focus in 2018 Matters considered at all Board Meetings include: Operational and financial performance, competitive and regulatory updates through management reports Potential acquisition or organic growth opportunities being considered in pursuance of the Groups growth strategy Other development opportunities Board Committee updates Risk and risk management either directly or indirectly whilst discussing matters considered by the Board During the course of the 2018 financial year the Board has also considered and or received presentations on other matters including: An overview of the extended Group structure and steps taken to widen the breadth of management expertise across the Group: Specific market presentations in relation to either both markets in which the Group currently operates and also potential future markets into which the Group may expand: Long term acquisition and working capital financing: The key competitive and regulatory environment drivers in the Groups key markets: The Groups half-year and full-year results: The proposed operating budget for the following financial year: The Groups strategic risks register and consideration of any changes to key risks, controls and mitigations: and The new provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code updated in 2018.
Board attendance in the 2018 financial year During the period under review, the Board met, as scheduled, on five occasions as well as other ad-hoc meetings, normally called at very short notice, on specific matters requiring board approval or consideration.
Scheduled periodic Board Meetings are normally split, where possible, between London and Abu Dhabi.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board meetings continued Board attendance in the 2018 financial year continued The attendance of the Directors at each of the scheduled Board meetings during the period is set out in the table below.
Board meeting attendance 2018 Attended Scheduled H. J.
Mark Tompkins 5 5 Dr B. R. Shetty 5 5 Mr Khalifa Bin Butti 5 5 Mr Prasanth Manghat 5 5 Mr Hani Buttikhi 5 5 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 5 5 Mr Abdulrahman Basaddiq 5 5 Mr Jonathan Bomford 5 5 Lord Clanwilliam 5 5 Salma Hareb 5 5 Dr Nandini Tandon 4 5 Board effectiveness Director Induction On appointment, directors have the benefit of an induction programme undertaken during the first few months of their tenure as a director.
Each induction programme covers a number of different areas including: briefings and presentations from management to understand the business operations and financial drivers their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors and the governance environment in which the Company operates opportunities to visit the Groups key facilities and new capital development project locations meetings with the Companys key advisors Board information and professional development The Directors maintain an appropriate dialogue amongst themselves and with senior management, which ensures that NonExecutive Directors are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups business.
Non-Executive Directors meet with management and undertake visits to operational facilities as required in order to further understand the way the business operates and any change within the business.
The Board had presentations from management during the year in relation to the Groups more material acquisitions and financing arrangements, as well as market conditions and drivers within the Groups key and developing markets.
Directors also receive through Board and Board Committee meetings, as well as ongoing communications during the year, updates in relation to other key areas such as changes to the governance requirements and financial reporting as they apply to UK listed companies.
As part of their overall training and development needs, some non-executive directors have attended externally provided seminars and discussion forums relating to their general responsibilities as Directors or areas of specific responsibility, in particular in relation to the Board Committees on which they serve.
Such development opportunities are made available to all Directors on an ongoing basis.
Board evaluation An  Board evaluation was undertaken by Prism Boardroom during 2018.
Prism Boardroom has no other connection with the Company.
The purpose of the Board evaluation was to focus on the effectiveness of both the Board and its Committees and to provide assurance that Board members, individually and collectively, operate in the interests of all key stakeholders.
As the Company has Controlling Shareholders, the effectiveness of the relationship between the Independent and the Non-Independent members of the Board was also a point of focus for the evaluation.
The scope of the 2018 evaluation was determined following a review by Prism Boardroom of Board and Board Committee papers and included both one-to-one interviews with Board members and observation of the December 2018 Board meeting.
The evaluation found that: The Boards processes and relationships are aligned to the success of the Company: The Board does an effective job at bringing potentially different perspectives to bear on its decision making in a collaborative way: and The Board Committees are well regarded.
A number of recommendations were made which the Board will be considering, although it is noted that none of these are material.
The conclusion of the evaluation report is that the Board is operating effectively and healthily.
46 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Re-election of directors All of the directors of the Company submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 20 June 2018.
Each resolution for re-election or election of a retiring director will be proposed as a separate resolution.
The Board is satisfied that the contribution made by each director, and the Board as a whole, to board deliberations continues to be appropriate and effective to ensure good stewardship of the Group on behalf of the shareholders of the Company and believe that shareholders should support the re-election of each Director of the Company at the 2019 annual general meeting.
Other Board disclosures Conflicts of interest The Board are aware that some Directors have interests in other businesses in which they have invested.
Any conflicts of interest and related party transactions that may arise are monitored with: Each of the Directors are asked to confirm that they have no other interests which would conflict them for the purposes of any item to be discussed at the meeting: where such conflict is reported, the respective Director is not permitted to take part in the consideration of that matter by the Board: Each Director discloses to the Board any related party transactions in which they are connected, and such transactions are reported in the Groups financial statements.
Whilst Directors on the Board have other business interests, the Board do not consider that these, nor the time commitment that they require, affect the ability of such Directors to undertake their role or comply with their statutory obligations.
Independent advice Each of the directors is permitted to obtain independent legal advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
This would normally be managed through the Group Company Secretary.
All directors, and the Board as a whole, also have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who, under the Joint Chairmens direction, is responsible for ensuring that good Board procedures are followed.
Indemnification of directors The Company has put in place a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy which provides all Board members with insurance cover in respect of liabilities that may arise against the Directors collectively or individually.
The Directors do not benefit from any form of qualifying third party indemnities made by the Company.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Clinical Governance Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference for each committee clearly set out its authority and duties and have been approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each committee are available on our website at www.
com or available from the Group Company Secretary.
The composition of the Board Committees changed in Q1, 2018 and as noted in the 2017 Annual Report.
The composition of each Committee is set out within each Committee report below.
Board Clinical Audit Remuneration Nominations Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Committees continued Audit Committee Overview provided by the Chair of the Audit Committee The 2018 financial year has been another busy year for the audit committee.
As UK listed company reporting and governance requirements continually evolve, particularly this year with the implementation of new accounting standards, and as the Group grows, both management and the audit committee continue to focus on finance, governance, risk and control matters across the Group.
This report sets out the work of the Committee, significant matters addressed by the Committee during the year and the responsibilities of, and work undertaken by, the external and internal auditors.
In addition, the Board asks the Audit Committee to review various matters in relation to risk and internal control which, during a year of significant strategic activity and integration, has been a significant aspect of the Board and Audit Committee focus also.
LORD CLANWILLIAM Membership and attendance The Audit Committee consisted entirely of independent non-executive directors during the year under review.
During the 2018 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee: Chairman: Lord Clanwilliam since 6 March 2018 Committee members: Jonathan Bomford Chairman until 6 March 2018 and continuing member for the whole of FY2018 Dr Nandini Tandon Dr Ayesha Abdullah until 6 March 2018 Note: subsequent to 31 December 2018, Dr Nandini Tandon ceased to be a member of the Committee on 8 February 2019 upon her resignation from the Board.
Lord Clanwilliam was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 6 March 2018.
Lord Clanwilliams relevant experience includes being the Chair of another FTSE100 Company Audit Committee and a member of NMCs Audit Committee between 2012 and 2014.
During the 2018 financial year, the Committees financial expert was Mr Jonathan Bomford.
Mr Bomford is a Chartered Accountant and his brief biographical details and experience are set out on page 38 of the annual report.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
The meetings are scheduled to align with the Groups reporting timetable with planning meetings in advance of both the half-year review and full-year audit, and approving meetings shortly in advance of the announcement of the Groups half-year and full-year results.
Audit Committee attendance Attended Scheduled Dr Nandini Tandon 3 4 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 1 1 Mr Jonathan Bomford 4 4 Lord Clanwilliam 3 3 Meetings are normally attended by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Financial Officer.
Other Non-Executive Directors also attend meetings.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee also meets separately with the external auditors and management with the other parties not present.
48 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Key role and responsibilities The key role of the Committee is to ensure the integrity of published financial reports: compliance with applicable legal and regulatory regulations in the group areas of activity: effectiveness of internal controls and assessing the independence and expertise of the external and internal auditors and assessing their effectiveness and performance in the year.
Risk management is dealt with by the board and the Audit Committee reports to the board their assessment of such matters.
During the year the Audit Committee assisted the Board in: discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audits and controls: reviewing the Companys financial results announcements, Annual Report and audited financial statements, including review of the long-term viability and going concern assessments: monitoring the independence of, and extent of the non-audit work undertaken by, the external auditors: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of external auditors and the level of their remuneration: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit activities and internal policies: overseeing the Groups compliance processes: and oversight of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems although the Board retains control over these matters.
Consideration of principal risks and the risk management process in place across the Group is a matter retained for discussion and review by the Board.
The Audit Committee is required to report regularly to the Board of Directors in relation to its findings on the above and the discussions at each meeting.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Companys Annual Report and audited financial statements and the half yearly reports remains with the Directors of the Company.
Main activities of the Committee during the year During the year, the Committee has focussed significantly on areas relating to the growth strategy of the Group, including both acquisition accounting and the resulting effect of the changing IT and internal control environment across the Group, as well as the implementation of new accounting standards.
Where the Committee feels that it requires additional knowledge and advice when considering complex accounting matters, the Committee uses independent external advisers.
During the year it received such reports and advice in relation to the following matters: The accounting for, and reporting of, Companys finance and loan facilities: The implications of the implementation of IFRS 16 Accounting for Leases : and Accounting for Goodwill and acquired asset valuations.
The main activities on which the Committee focuses each year, being the Committees consideration, and approval, of the Interim Results and the Annual Report, remains unchanged.
The wider focus and additional issues discussed by the Audit Committee during the year included: Revenue Recognition In addition to reviewing the consistency of revenue recognition policies across the Group, particularly to ensure that the revenue recognition policies across the Groups acquired entities is appropriate, the implementation of IFRS 15 has been reviewed by the Committee and management to ensure appropriate revenue recognition practices and policies are in place.
Acquisition Accounting There are a number of aspects in relation to the Groups acquisition strategy which had an impact on accounting and audit matters during 2018.
These included approving the appointment of financial experts independent of the Group auditors to assess the value of goodwill for acquisitions, accounting for goodwill and specifically work on the purchase price allocation for transactions, including the identification of intangible assets, assessing the accounting policies within each business for consistency with NMC accounting policies.
Accounting for new loans and financing arrangements Given the focus on a number of long term financing transactions during year, the audit committee has been concerned to ensure that all new group financing arrangements are dealt with appropriately in the Groups financial statements.
Development of risk management and internal control environment The Committee reviewed work being undertaken by management in relation to the further development of the Groups risk management and internal control environment as part of the Groups Integration and business transformation programs.
Internal audit Internal Audit Reports are presented at Committee meetings twice a year with other updates from the Internal Auditors as required.
During the 2018 financial year, Internal Audit reviews were commenced in Oman and the Committee reviewed the results of those reports.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Committees continued Audit Committee continued Main activities of the Committee during the year continued IFRS implementation During the year, and in the previous financial year, the committee reviewed and considered the required accounting changes and impact that the implementation of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 has on the Groups financial statements, and discussed the accounting policies related thereto.
The Committee has also received initial reviews in relation to the impact of IFRS 16 which is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2019.
Fair balanced and understandable assessment The Committee advises the Board on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary information to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Having reviewed the processes undertaken, the Committee concluded that the disclosures, and the processes and controls underlying their production, were appropriate and recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
Change of Audit partner The Committee discussed and monitored the impending change of audit partner and approved the new lead audit partner appointed in relation to the 2019 financial year.
External audit and auditor independence External Audit effectiveness The Committee believes that the effectiveness of the external audit is dependent on the identification and consideration of key risks by the Committee, management and, as part of their audit process, by the auditors during the financial year under review.
EY produces and discusses with the Committee a detailed audit plan identifying these key risks, the focus of audit procedures and the work to be done to test managements assumptions and accounting treatment in these areas.
The Committee meets separately with the External Auditors to ensure that an independent dialogue is maintained in relation to monitoring key business and financial risks and to ensure that management have not restricted the scope of their audit.
Audit Committee members also meet with the lead audit partner on a number of occasions during the year outside the formality of Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee did not commission an independent review of the effectiveness of the external audit during the year.
However the effectiveness of the Group Audit was discussed and considered, by the Committee, management and, as part of their audit process, by the auditors.
Auditor fees and appointment EY were appointed as auditor to the Company at the time of the Companys IPO in April 2012.
The level of audit fees paid in relation to the 2018 financial year is set out in note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-Audit fees During FY2018, the level of non-audit fees amounted to a total of US$984k.
The Audit Committee adopted a new policy in relation to the Companys non-audit services in March 2018, ensuring that the new policy reflected current practice within the Group as well as relevant legislation.
Auditor Independence The Audit Committee formally reviewed the independence of the Companys auditor, EY, during the period under review.
The review took account of the relationship between management and the audit team, the processes that EY have in place internally to ensure objectivity and independence and also the level of non-audit fees incurred during the year.
As part of this review the Committee reviewed the potential threats to auditor independence as a result of: auditor self-interests, being those areas where the auditor may have a financial or other interest in the Company: auditor self-review, being areas where the results of non-audit services are reflected in the amounts included or disclosed in the financial statements: management threats, which may occur if partners or employees of the auditor take decision on behalf of management: and other threats, such as familiarity and intimidation.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that in all areas sufficient safeguards were adopted by the auditor and that the independence of EY and of the audit engagement partner had not been compromised.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of the Auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements.
50 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Change of audit partner In H2, 2018, EY advised the Company that the lead audit partner for EY on the audit of the Company, Victor Veger, was taking up a new role within EY and would therefore be stepping down as lead audit partner.
It was agreed that this would take place following the completion of the audit of the Company for the full financial year 2018.
A new audit partner, Kevin Harkin, was selected from a list of prospective audit partners provided by EY and will lead EYs audit of the Company in 2019.
Audit re-tender policy In accordance with the requirements set out in the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order, the Audit Committees approach to audit tendering is that it currently intends to undertake a competitive tender process in relation to statutory audit services provided to the Group in 2020 with the chosen statutory auditor being appointed for the FY2021 audit.
However, between now and the planned competitive tender date during which the Group is expected to grow substantially through execution of its organic and acquisitive growth strategy leading to transformational changes in the size and complexity of the NMC Group, the Audit Committee is conscious of the need to keep the provision of audit services under continual review for the benefit of both the Group and its Shareholders.
The Audit Committee has therefore not ruled out that an earlier tender process may be appropriate.
LORD CLANWILLIAM On behalf of the Audit Committee NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Committees continued Clinical Governance Committee Overview provided by the Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee I report to you this year as Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee with good progress again having been made in relation to Clinical Quality matters.
The Clinical Governance Committee provides Board oversight in the key area of Clinical Governance.
The Committee seeks to ensure with management that the Group has an appropriate governance structures within the healthcare business and that clinical care continues to improve.
Good progress has again been made during a very busy year with the majority of key patient safety and clinical care indicators remaining at a strong level or improving.
Many clinical performance and quality improvement initiatives were implemented this year which will contribute clinical excellence across the Group.
Following the many integration projects undertaken across the Group over the last 2 years, management have been reviewing, widening and increasing the experience of the Quality functions.
The new Corporate Quality Department is expanding further on the good platform developed across the Group in prior years and has a goal to improve both clinical quality performance and monitoring.
The Group has performed very well in patient satisfaction surveys and as well as other operations metrics.
The use of technology platforms now in place means that the Quality functions across the Group are now well placed to improve standards across all businesses in the Group.
DR AYESHA ABDULLAH Membership and attendance During the 2018 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee: Chair: Dr Ayesha Abdullah Committee members: Dr C. R. Shetty Mr Prasanth Manghat since 6 March 2018 Dr Nandini Tandon until 6 March 2018 The Clinical Governance Committee met twice during 2018.
In addition to the Clinical Governance Committee members, the Chief Operating Officer and the Vice President Quality and Standards attended each meeting.
The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Clinical Governance Committee attendance Attended Scheduled Dr Ayesha Abdullah 2 2 Dr C. R. Shetty 2 2 Mr Prasanth Manghat 2 2 Key role and responsibilities The key role of the Committee is to oversee governance structures, processes and controls in relation to Clinical matters in place within the Group healthcare operations.
This is to ensure that the risks associated with clinical care are mitigated in the interests of the Company and its stakeholders.
52 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Main activities of the Committee during the year Specific responsibilities of the Committee, and work undertaken by it during the year, include: Review of clinical performance indicators: Overseeing the continuing inclusion of additional group facilities in achieving JCI accreditation: Reviewing the implications of new regulations and standards compliance implemented by our local health authority regulators: and Ongoing discussion in relation to the use and benefits of IT systems and solutions for all aspects of patient care and information monitoring.
Principal Management activities on clinical governance matters during the year 2018 was a very busy year for management in relation to quality and clinical governance matters.
Two hospitals, our Specialty hospitals in Dubai and Al Ain, were re-accredited by Joint Commission International, with excellent results, during the year.
The Quality function will oversee a number of further re-accreditations, which take place every three years, during 2019.
Our laboratories at NMC Royal Hospital and NMC Royal Womens Hospital both achieved successful Lab ISO reaccreditation in 2018 also.
NMC has joined the International DAISY Foundation Nursing Awards and four NMC nurses achieved the internationally recognised award of becoming a DAISY honoree.
The Committee is delighted with the dedication and determination of management, and all of our employees, to keep up to date with regulatory changes and new standards, ensuring that the Group is well positioned in compliance with its requirements as well as offering an excellent and safe service to our patients.
During the year, the Governance structure was enhanced with the creation of a wider Corporate Quality Team.
This new team has already been busy in 2018 reviewing processes and standards across the Group and this will continue into 2019 with a proposed new NMC Clinical Quality Framework incorporating Good Governance from the Board to the Bedside.
This new framework, working alongside both our Accreditation and Regulatory standards will enable enhanced monitoring and quick identification, assessment, mitigation and management of clinical risks as well as validate emerging trends within the businesses.
The Committee will report on the progress of the Quality functions aim to transform Clinical and Quality Governance across our businesses in the 2019 Annual Report.
DR AYESHA ABDULLAH For and on behalf of the Clinical Governance Committee NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Committees continued Remuneration Committee Membership and attendance The membership of the Remuneration Committee changed on 6 March 2018.
The Committee now consists of four Independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom is the Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman.
An Independent Non-Executive Director is the Chairman of the Committee.
During the 2018 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee: Jonathan Bomford Chairman since 6 March 2018 and a member of the Committee Chairman: for the whole of the 2018 financial year Committee members: H. J.
Mark Tompkins since 6 March 2018 Dr Ayesha Abdullah since 6 March 2018 Dr Nandini Tandon since 6 March 2018 Lord Clanwilliam Committee Chairman and member until 6 March 2018 Abdulrahman Basaddiq Committee member until 6 March 2018 Salma Hareb Committee member until 6 March 2018 Note: subsequent to 31 December 2018, Dr Nandini Tandon ceased to be a member of the Committee on 8 February 2019 upon her resignation from the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer attends Remuneration Committee meetings and the Chairman of the Committee discusses proposed remuneration policies with him during their formulation.
No Director is present when their own remuneration is discussed.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee and, along with the Committees independent advisors, Deloitte, provides advice to the Committee on Corporate Governance aspects relating to remuneration matters.
He also provides assistance to the Chairman of the Committee as required in discussions with the Remuneration Committee advisers and on implementation of Committee decisions.
The Group Company Secretary is not present when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee met four times during the financial year.
Board meeting attendance 2018 Attended Scheduled Dr Ayesha Abdullah 2 2 Dr Nandini Tandon 2 2 Mr Mark Tompkins 2 2 Salma Hareb 2 2 Mr Jonathan Bomford 4 4 Mr Abdulrahman Basaddiq 2 2 Lord Clanwilliam 2 2 54 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Key role and responsibilities The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in: making recommendations to the Board on the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy, the framework of executive remuneration, including the use of incentive arrangements within that framework: and determining, on the Board's behalf, the entire individual remuneration packages for each Executive Director, the Chairmen and the Senior Management Team.
All other recommendations must be referred to the Board for approval.
No Committee member is permitted to participate in any discussion or decision regarding his her own remuneration.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter for consideration by the Executive Directors, in discussion with the Chairman of the Company.
Main activities of the Committee during the year The principal activities of the Committee during 2018 and the Annual Remuneration Report, are set out in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 62 to 78.
JONATHAN BOMFORD For and on behalf of the Remuneration Committee NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Committees continued Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of three Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom holds the chairmanship of the Committee.
During the 2018 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee: Chairman: H. J.
Mark Tompkins Committee members: Abdulrahman Basaddiq Mrs Salma Hareb since 6 March 2018 Lord Clanwilliam until 6 March 2018 The Nominations Committee has a role to assist the Board in: reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in relation to its structure, size and composition: reviewing succession planning in place for senior management and to discuss succession planning for the Board: determining the appropriate skills and characteristics required of directors: identifying individuals qualified to become Board members and recommending such individuals to the Board: recommending individuals to be considered for election as Directors at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or to fill vacancies: and preparing a description of the experience and capabilities required for a particular Board appointment.
The Committee did not meet in 2018 but committee members held informal discussions in relation to the Board and Board Committee structure on matters of interest to the role of the Committee.
The Committee would expect to meet to consider appropriate candidates to fill any vacancy created on the Board should such a vacancy arise or be considered appropriate given other skills and experience on the Board.
The approach of the Committee, and of the Board, to the issue of diversity is set out in this Governance section on pages 30 and 44.
MARK TOMPKINS For and on behalf of the Nominations Committee 56 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Board Oversight of system of Internal Control and risk Overview Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting, operational and clinical matters across the Group.
The Board is responsible for reviewing such internal controls and for ensuring that they are effective to properly manage the Groups businesses and to assure the identification, assessment, mitigation and management of risk.
Alignment of risk assurance with business growth While progressing its organic and inorganic growth strategy, over the last two years the Group has dedicated significant resources to integrating its recently acquired facilities while consolidating the market position of its legacy facilities, mainly in the UAE.
Further, as the risks that the Group is exposed to continue to evolve mainly due to macro-economic uncertainly and the uncertainty resulting from regulatory and technological disruption in the healthcare sector the Group is constantly re-evaluating the design effectiveness of key controls.
Given the changes to the Groups structure and the nature of the risks faced by the Group, in order to strengthen its governance and control structure, and to assure the Board that structures are sufficiently robust to support the growth in the Group, management have progressively been: re-designing some of its key controls in an attempt to automate these and thereby reducing the level of manual intervention: incorporating additional key internal controls into its financial, operational and clinical quality review processes: implementing revisions to policies and procedures covering all aspects of the Groups accounting policies and controls to ensure consistency across the Group and compliance with the requirements of the recently implemented IFRS 9 and IFRS 15: taking account of the increasing influence of global standards particularly from the UK on the regulatory framework in the UAE: Expanding its Quality Team, including a new Senior Vice President for Quality and other staff who are familiar with UK regulatory standards: Reviewing and revising clinical governance including key staff, policies and procedures, systems and processes at both corporate and facility levels: Developing frameworks to guide and support an extended scope of clinical services in the UAE and beyond and encouraging business integration of operations and clinical governance to align mitigation and management of risk: Increasing the opportunities through clinical meetings, events, workshops and seminars to share best clinical practice across the Group, and utilizing the vast clinical experience the group now commands: Enhancing Corporate support services, including widening the breadth of the Group HR function under a new GCC Head of Human Resources to manage infrastructure risks related to the Groups workforce: enhancing the Groups Internal Audit and IT functions: and updating and extending the reach of delegated authorities and decentralisation of accountability across group businesses through the cluster and business verticals structure the Group has implemented.
All of these changes are essential to align good governance with large scale business growth and to continue to improve further the Groups internal control framework.
Challenges Acquisitions, integration and strategic alignment Businesses which have been acquired as part of the Groups strategic growth plan over the last few years, all operated with different legacies in terms of structure, processes, systems and governance.
Some of these businesses historically had a centralised approach to control, with the majority of the controls over all financial and operational aspects of each business resting with a few key individuals and, in some of the businesses, being manual in nature.
We consider this to be a normal environment in which smaller privately-owned businesses are used to operating.
Implementing change management programs to integrate new businesses into the group has been successful but will remain a challenge, a long-term project and a key risk for the Group as it continues to grow.
Regulatory changes Disruption resulting from changes in the regulatory environment and in the insurance industry In the Middle East region, where operations of the Group are primarily based.
There have been a number of significant changes being introduced by our various regulators e. g. the implementation of VAT in UAE and changes to healthcare regulation and processes amongst others.
These changes have resulted in the redesign of the Groups financial and operating processes and its internal control framework.
Human Capital The growth of the Group and the augmentation and evolution of the organisational structure to support, guide and control this process, means that there is a risk that the Groups structure and processes can sometimes expand ahead of or, out of line with, the culture.
As the employee numbers increase and diversify, increased engagement, communication and training across the Group is required to control and manage risks around organisational transformation.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Oversight of system of Internal Control and risk continued Challenges continued IT environment Management recognise that the Groups IT systems are not fully integrated and that an element of manual control procedures are still prevalent in few of the Groups entities.
Group has grown, organically and through acquisition, together with some significant regulatory changes as outlined above, despite witnessing these rapid changes group continues its commitment to develop the integrated IT systems.
Whilst this is still the case, the manual processes, supported by legacy IT systems in many of the Groups businesses, continues to provide a robust level of control.
Approach to risk Our approach to risk is adopted having in mind the complex and changing environment in which the Group operates which requires continual renewal and extension of control processes to monitor and manage risks.
The Group operates a multi-layered approach to risk identification control and mitigation.
Groups business risks are identified through a bottom up process undertaken within each of the Groups businesses.
Senior Management then review these risks alongside the macro-economic environment within which the Group operates through a top down review process to establish a Strategic Risk Register.
During 2018, the Group once again conducted a bottom-up exercise, with the assistance of external consultants working in conjunction with facility and corporate management, to evaluate and update its business risks registers.
This exercise, which took place in addition to reviews undertaken on a case by case basis to consider risk and controls in specific entities as part of our internal audit program and following due diligence and acquisition of businesses into the Group, produced updated business risk registers and further raised awareness of risk and risk mitigation across our primary business assets.
Clinica Eugin operates its own ongoing risk assessment and control mitigation program which assesses key risks, mitigation controls and governance from acquisition of a facility and continuing on an ongoing basis.
Taking into account the results of the business risk assessments, and top-down reviews twice during the year, Senior Management produce the Strategic Risk register for review by the Board twice annually.
Further details on the approach taken to assess risks, and of the Groups strategic risks, are set out on pages 22 to 25.
The internal controls and processes in place to mitigate business risks and the Boards review of the effectiveness of the control environment are set out below.
Controls and risk mitigation Management and Group structure During the last two financial years, the Group has taken a phased approach to increase oversight over Group businesses including increasing management bandwidth with increased headcount and new oversight departments in the Corporate Office, improving and aligning controls in acquired businesses and decentralising accountability and many processes through its cluster management approach.
The overall management structure of the Group is now as follows: The Board Executive Management, under the CEO, divided into four principal functions Corporate Clinical Development Finance Operations Governance and IR Corporate Functions Cluster and divisional Management Business Management 58 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Financial, operational and clinical quality controls Key elements of the Groups financial and operational controls are as follows: Clearly defined matters reserved for the Board or its Committees covering: Approval and review of the annual budget and long-term forecasts: Group Strategy including the risks and risk mitigation in relation to the same: and Capital expenditure, financial structuring and acquisition and investment decisions.
Formalised delegations of authority and lines of accountability as part of the Groups cluster management structure provides a mechanism to monitor performance and operations of a manageable number of facilities in sufficient detail covering monthly operational and financial reporting including monthly comparison of results and against budget and forecast, and a review of key KPIs.
Oversight of business operations Monthly meetings between the CEO and regional leadership to: Discuss ongoing business strategy Review market shifts in regulatory oversight Develop action plans to mitigate any issues that could negatively impact the Groups success Monthly Operations reviews are conducted at regional and facility level to: Review performance against budget Discuss roadblocks to achieving targets Review recruitment and retention targets Manage any regulatory or clinical quality issues Develop future success action plans Policies, procedures and controls covering: The preparation of financial statements of each subsidiary in accordance with IFRS, local tax and regulatory requirements a complete audit is carried out by the auditors of significant subsidiaries for the purposes of the Groups year-end financial statement : The preparation of standardised monthly daily reports in accordance with accounting policies of the Group, which are formalized in a Group accounting manual given to all the subsidiaries.
This accounting manual is regularly updated to incorporate any changes to IFRS and regulation: The formal process for organic and inorganic expansion projects with full assessments of potential acquisitions or other material investments including due diligence, financing, market studies, risk analysis, strategic benefits to the Group: The Groups mitigation plans with respect to its strategic risks, including cyber risks and protection of personal data: and The Groups long term viability and going concern basis of accounting.
These are conducted using both internal resources and external consultants.
An appropriate business management and governance structures: Our larger NMC healthcare hospitals facilities have a Medical Director and Head of Administration who are accountable for the operation of the facility.
Smaller facilities are generally managed by the lead clinician.
Support functions such as Revenue Cycle Management, HR, IT, legal, finance and marketing, among others are provided by a central or cluster team.
Within the Healthcare division structure, a number of multidisciplinary committees are in place to monitor guidelines in respect of patient safety and quality, medication management, infection prevention and control, medical record documentation and facility management.
Medical Directors meetings to monitor clinical governance procedures.
The Group has a Quality Team which operates in both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions.
Quarterly and annual Quality reports monitor performance against a range of key KPIs based on clinical quality and safety metrics.
Therefore, all of our facilities and businesses we have an appropriate and relevant structure to provide effective and efficient management and clear lines of accountability of both clinical and non-clinical areas.
The Senior Management Team believes that these divisions of responsibility at both facility and corporate levels provide a natural check and balance across all internal control areas.
Independent controls Internal Audit The Group largely makes use of an outsourced internal audit function which is closely aligned to the Group risk management function.
At each significant operating facility, the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control is independently evaluated through the internal and external audit programmes.
In addition to these audits, the effectiveness of operational procedures is examined internally through self-assessment processes.
The results of these assurance processes are monitored by the Groups Audit Committee.
The Internal Auditors report directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and on a day to day basis works in conjunction with the CFO.
Their reports to the Audit Committee are received and discussed at Audit Committee meetings.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Oversight of system of Internal Control and risk continued Controls and risk mitigation continued Independent controls Internal Audit continued Following the completion of each review, the internal auditors identify areas for remedial action and the required action plans are discussed and agreed with management.
All areas requiring remedial action are highlighted as high, medium or low risk areas.
The internal auditors present the reviews and the agreed management action plans for any remedies to the Audit Committee and then monitor the implementation of any required changes on behalf of the Audit Committee.
Independent controls Quality and Regulatory oversight The Board is aware that as a significant healthcare and distribution business it is subject to a range of risks related to clinical care, quality and product safety.
The Healthcare division, and elements of the Distribution division, are regulated by governmental and non-governmental organisations.
In summary: Each UAE Healthcare facility is licensed by one of four regulatory bodies which exist in the UAE.
The regulatory bodies monitor performance and clinical procedures against its regulations, key metrics and guidelines: Healthcare facilities outside of the UAE are regulated by the relevant local responsible body in their relevant jurisdictions, for example in the UK, where there is an Independent Regulatory, the Care Quality Commission: Clinica Eugin clinics are subject to local regulatory standards and laws applicable in each jurisdiction in which they operate: Seven of the Groups owned Hospitals, as well as Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in Umm al Quwain which is managed by the Group, and the clinical laboratory of Dr Sunny Medical Centres are accredited by Joint Commission International, an internationally renowned organisation monitoring clinical metrics and quality of patient care: The distribution and disposal of pharmaceuticals is strictly controlled through the UAE Ministry of Health: The majority of the Groups healthcare revenue, particularly in our principal market of the UAE, results from medical insurance arrangements.
The Groups contractual arrangements with insurance providers include the monitoring of claims processing and clinical outcomes: and The Groups facilities through its legal entities in the UAE and Saudi Arabia are registered for VAT and required to comply with the VAT guidelines.
The Board and its committees provide independent oversight of managements control systems, in particular the Audit Committee in relation to finance related matters and the Clinical Governance Committee in relation to clinical and quality matters.
The work and oversight of the board committees is set out on pages 47 to 56.
Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and on behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee, and in relation to clinical quality the Clinical Governance Committee, has been engaged in the process of ensuring that management have established continuous processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces.
These processes include: the reporting from the Finance Department on Group performance: the work of the internal auditors: issues identified by the external auditors to the extent covered by their audit work: and the reporting from the Quality Department in relation to clinical quality performance and patient experience.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of these systems and for conducting a formal annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
A system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls in place during the year, the Audit Committee considered, amongst other matters, the enhancements to the control framework, manual controls in place, the independence of the separate operating units, the delegated authorities, the balance of centralised and decentralised systems and the reporting process in relation to exceptional items.
The Audit Committee have also noted the challenges faced as the acquired businesses are integrated into the Group.
Such acquired businesses have differing levels of controls within their businesses.
The Audit Committee have noted the initial primary and delegated authority controls which are put in place in the acquired businesses following completion as well as the roll out of financial and operational reporting requirements.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the 2018 financial year, in light of the key elements of the Groups internal controls outlined above.
Given the additional internal controls that have been incorporated into the Groups financial and operational reporting process, such that sufficient internal controls were in place to monitor the Groups key risks, the Board believes, having evaluated the both the design and operating effectiveness of the internal controls and procedures, that these were effective during the period covered by this report.
The Board also believes that the process undertaken by the Board and its Committees to monitor the internal control environment, accords with the guidance provided in the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
60 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Shareholder engagement The Company is committed to communicating with shareholders and stakeholders and to be available to meet with shareholders who require additional explanation of any matter which is of concern to them.
During 2018, the Company has continued to focus on its formal program of investor interaction including one-to-one meetings with institutional investors and attendance at investor conferences.
Such meetings are attended by conducted by various members of the management team depending on the focus for specific meetings.
The Company also held a Capital Markets Day in October 2018 which included presentations on various aspects of the Groups businesses and financial performance.
Meetings were also held in January 2018 between Independent Non-Executive Directors and our larger institutional shareholders, to principally discuss matters connected with the remuneration of the Companys Executive Directors.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2018, the Company issued its 2017 audited results and its 2018 half year unaudited results.
In addition, given the strategic acquisition and financing activities during the year, the Company kept shareholders updated regularly with regards to its long-term financing and its material acquisitions, and the effect that these have on the Group.
The Joint Chairmen and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are also available, either through contacting the Company Secretary or at the Companys General Meetings, to discuss any matters within their areas of responsibility or where individuals do not feel it is possible to discuss these matters with management.
Aside from direct shareholder meetings, the principal ongoing communication with shareholders will be through the publication of the Companys Annual report and audited financial statements and Interim Results as well as the opportunity to question the Board and Committees at General Meetings.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend General Meetings and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
The Company has an investor relations section on its corporate website, www.
This has been updated regularly with information that the Company considers relevant to its investors.
Additionally, the number of analysts monitoring the Company and issuing notes in relation to their forecasts and expectations for the group continues to increase.
Ethics Whistleblowing Policy A confidential whistleblowing procedure is in operation to allow employees to raise concerns of possible improprieties in relation to either operational or financial conduct.
Anti-Bribery The Group has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy as well as a Gifts and Entertainment Policy which applies to all directors and employees of all Group Companies.
The Policies, which have been communicated to employees, includes clear statements setting out the Groups Anti-Bribery measures and Anti-Corruption culture.
Practical guidance has been issued in relation to specific circumstances considered to be most relevant to Group employees.
These include guidance notes for clinical staff attending pharmaceutical and training and development conferences in relation to entertainment and other possible inducements, as well as guidance notes in relation to the receipt of free products and equipment and how such products and incentives may affect clinical judgement.
Specific guidance has also been provided in relation to the provision of sales incentives to senior sales and marketing staff within our Distribution division.
Modern Slavery Policy The Board approved the Groups new Modern Slavery policy in December 2018 and subsequently issued its first Modern Slavery Statement.
Further information in relation to the implementation of this policy is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 27.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 42 to 61 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: H. J.
MARK TOMPKINS Non-Executive Joint Chairman DR B. R. SHETTY Non-Executive Joint Chairman NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61
