Our Governance 72 Corporate Governance Statement The Companys Annual General Meeting Shareholders will have the opportunity to meet and question all of the Directors at the AGM, which will be held at 10am on 1 May 2019 at Numis Securities Limited, The London Stock Exchange Building, 10 Paternoster Square, London, EC4M 7LT.
A detailed explanation of each item of business to be considered at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting, which will be sent to the shareholders before the AGM.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to vote in advance of the meeting, either online at ocadoshares.
com or by using the proxy card which will be sent with the Notice of Meeting if sent by post or can be downloaded from the Companys corporate website.
At last years annual general meeting, all resolutions were passed with votes in support ranging from 79.91% to 99.94%.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 This Corporate Governance Statement explains how the Company applies the main principles and complies with all relevant provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and meets other relevant requirements including provisions of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Corporate Governance Statement as required by the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2. forms part of the Directors Report, and has been prepared in accordance with the principles of the Code.
A copy of the Code, as applicable to the Company for the year ended 2 December 2018, can be found at the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
The Financial Reporting Council updated the UK Corporate Governance Code in July 2018 the 2018 Code.
The 2018 Code applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, and so does not apply to the Companys reporting period ended 2 December 2018.
The Board has, where appropriate and feasible, adopted the new provisions in the 2018 Code earlier than required and provides disclosure against these requirements in this Annual Report.
Further information on the 2018 Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
The Board and committee composition and diversity policy can be found on pages 64 and 65.
The Groups risk management and internal control framework and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 44 to 49.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 129, the Directors Report on pages 130 to 137 and the going concern and viability statements on page 79 all contain information required to be included in this Corporate Governance Statement, and so are incorporated into this statement by reference.
The terms of reference for each of the main Board committees can be found on our website.
This Corporate Governance Statement for 2018 covers the following areas: Board structure and composition: Leadership: The Boards effectiveness: Accountability: and Relations with the Companys shareholders and the AGM.
The Companys obligation is to state whether it has complied with the relevant provisions of the Code, or to explain why it has not done so up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code, except for provisions A.
These areas of non-compliance are explained below.
1.2 Senior Independent Director As explained on page 75, the Company has not yet appointed a successor Senior Independent Director but this is part of the current succession planning.
D. 1.1 and Design of performance-based remuneration Under the current Directors Remuneration Policy, Directors are not required to Schedule A retain shares for a period after leaving the Company.
Under the proposed 2019 Directors Remuneration Policy, a post-cessation shareholding requirement will be introduced as explained on page 121.
D. 2.2 Senior management remuneration As explained on page 87, the Remuneration Committee monitors, but does not make recommendations concerning, the level and structure of remuneration for senior management of the Company other than the Executive Directors.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 72 05-Feb-19 2:08:18 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 73 The Company aims to explain how its practices are consistent with the principle to which the particular provision relates, contribute to good governance and promote delivery of business objectives.
The Companys disclosures on its application of the main principles in the Code can be found as follows: Section of Section Principle Annual Report Page Leadership Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for the long-term Board of Directors, 61 success of the company.
Composition of the Board 64 There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the board Board Structure 62 and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
Board Structure 62 As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors should constructively challenge Board structure, Board 62 and help develop proposals on strategy.
Responsibilities and Actions 63 The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and Board of Directors, 61 Effectiveness knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Director Biographies 138 There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
Director Election 69 All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
External Board 69 Appointments and Conflicts All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills Board Induction and 70 and knowledge.
Professional Development The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to Information for Directors 70 enable it to discharge its duties.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Review of Board 66 committees and individual directors.
Effectiveness All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
Director Election 69 The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and Strategic Report, 13 Accountability prospects.
How We Manage Our Risks, 44 Going Concern Statement, 49 Viability Statement, Corporate Governance Statement 62 The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its How We Manage Our Risks 44 strategic objectives.
The board should maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the Audit Committee Report 76 corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditor.
Executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote the long-term success of the company.
Directors Remuneration 82 Remuneration Performance-related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Report There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the Directors Remuneration 82 remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Report There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a Engagement with 70 Relations with whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Shareholders shareholders The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
Engagement with 70 Shareholders Certain parts of this Corporate Governance Statement have been reviewed by the Companys external auditor, Deloitte LLP, for compliance with the Code, to the extent required.
Board Approval of the Corporate Governance Statement This separate Corporate Governance Statement is approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board by its Chairman and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Lord Rose Neill Abrams Chairman Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Ocado Group plc, Registered in England and Wales, Number 07098618 5 February 2019 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Governance.
