Our Governance 74 Nomination Committee Report Membership and Meetings The membership and attendance of the Nomination Committee, together with the appointment dates, are set out below: Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Committee for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018.
During the year, the Nomination Committee has undertaken a number of activities, the results of which led to the appointment of Julie Lord Rose Jrn Rausing Ruth Anderson Southern with effect from 1 September 2018.
This followed the earlier Chairman appointment of Luke Jensen to the Board as an Executive Director from 1 March 2018, as announced in last years report.
While reviewing Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee the composition of the Board it was noted that a number of Directors member since 11 March member since 9 March member since 9 March 2013 were approaching or had exceeded six years on the Board and as such 2010 2010 further changes to the Board are likely in the medium term.
3 3 3 3 3 3 During the year, the Committee undertook a thorough review of the Boards composition, succession plans and its diversity policy.
More information about the work of the Committee during the year can be found below.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Nomination Committee.
Douglas Andrew Harrison Emma Lloyd McCallum Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee member since 3 October member since 1 March member since Lord Rose 2011 2016 1 December 2016 Nomination Committee Chairman 3 3 3 3 3 3 5 February 2019 Julie Southern Nomination Committee During the year, the Committee undertook member since a thorough review of the Boards composition, 1 September 2018 succession plans and its diversity policy.
1 1 Lord Rose Nomination Committee Chairman Actual meetings attended Possible meetings the Director could have attended Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 74 05-Feb-19 2:08:48 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 75 As required under the terms of reference, the Nomination Committee has seven members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors, Membership and Meetings and holds a minimum of two meetings a year.
Julie Southern became a member of the Nomination Committee on her appointment to the Board on 1 September 2018.
The biography of each member of the Nomination Committee is set out on pages 138 and 139.
Other attendees at Committee meetings include the Chief Executive Officer and the People Director.
The Deputy Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
How the Committee Spent its Time in 2018 The Nomination Committee undertook a number of activities during the period as described below.
Board Composition and Succession Planning The Committee seeks to ensure that the Boards composition, and that of its committees, is appropriate to discharge its duties effectively.
During the prior year the Nomination Committee undertook a thorough review of the Boards composition.
This review took into account various considerations including tenure of Director, independence, diversity and ensuring a balance of Board knowledge, experience and skills.
This review preceded the Board agreeing changes to the composition of the Board over the last 12 months.
The Company separately announced the appointment of Luke Jensen as Executive Director with effect from 1 March 2018 and the appointment of Julie Southern as Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 September 2018.
More information about the Boards composition, independence and effectiveness can be found on pages 64 to 67.
The Nomination Committee continues to review Board composition to ensure that there is effective succession planning at Board level.
This includes the review of a regularly updated skills matrix for all Directors.
Based on the skill set analysis, the Board expects to meet in early 2019 to identify and agree some objectives and timing for planned changes to the Board.
It is likely the Board will make a number of Non-Executive Director appointments in the medium term, both to prepare the Board for the departure of retiring Directors and to identify candidates meeting the required skill sets.
The Company has not yet appointed a Senior Independent Director following the resignation of Alex Mahon, and this is part of the succession planning discussions currently being had by the Committee.
In addition to reviewing Board composition, the Nomination Committee oversees the process of succession and management development for the Executive Directors and the next layer of management, the Management Committee.
With regard to the development of the management team, two senior managers regularly attend the Board meetings to report on their respective business areas, while the Board has exposure to other senior managers who present or report to the Board on their business areas or particular projects.
The Nomination Committee is mindful that it could improve the extent of its exposure to the senior management and plans to expand on existing arrangements for building relationships between Non-Executive Directors and senior management outside of formal Board meetings.
Board Diversity The Nomination Committee recognises the importance of diversity and inclusion both in the boardroom and throughout the organisation and understands that a diverse board will offer wider perspectives which lead to better decision-making, enabling it to meet its responsibilities.
The Boards diversity policy, which was reviewed in the year, considers a broad range of characteristics when considering diversity including age, disability, social and educational background, as well as gender and ethnicity.
This policy includes a commitment to having a one-third female Board representation by the end of 2020 and a minimum of one non-white Board Director by the end of 2021 and to including diversity principles in the recruitment process at both Board and senior management level.
At the end of the period, the Board had 25% female representation, which fell from 27% last year due to the appointment of Luke Jensen as an Executive Director.
Improvements were seen at the Management Committee level with female representation also rising from 13% to 33%.
We will report progress against the policy in future years.
The Board is committed not only to increasing the percentage of women and ethnically diverse individuals on the Board, but also in senior positions in the Company and recognises that there is further work to be done to achieve that.
The Board is committed to supporting workforce initiatives that promote a culture of inclusion and diversity.
Any future Board appointments will continue to be based on objective criteria to ensure that the best individuals are appointed for the role.
Wherever possible, the search pool will be widened and where executive search firms are used, Ocado will only engage with those firms that have adopted the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
This includes Russell Reynolds, who were engaged to help the Company secure new Non-Executive Directors for the Group.
The Nomination Committee monitors these objectives and will evaluate the balance of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity on the Board.
For more information on diversity in respect of all the Groups employees, see the Our People section on pages 54 to 57.
The chart on page 55 illustrates the diversity of the Board in terms of gender as at the period end on 2 December 2018.
Annual Review In addition to its annual performance evaluation, discussed in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 62, the Nomination Committee carried out a review of its Terms of Reference during the period.
The Nomination Committee is mindful that the 2018 Code expands its remit in Possible meetings the Director relation to succession planning and a diverse pipeline and has updated its Terms of Reference accordingly to address these issues in the coming could have attended year.
The Committees Terms of Reference can be found on ocadogroup.
Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Governance.
indd 75 05-Feb-19 2:08:48 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 76 Audit Committee Report Membership and Meetings The membership and attendance of the Audit Committee, together with the appointment dates, are set out below: Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018.
In this report, we aim to share some of the Committees discussions from the year, providing insight regarding the role of the Committee, Ruth Anderson Andrew Harrison the Committees essential function in ensuring the integrity of the Chairman Companys financial reporting, and in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups assurance framework and internal controls.
Audit Committee Audit Committee member since 9 March member since 1 March This report details the significant accounting matters and issues in 2010 2016 relation to the Groups financial statements that the Committee has Relevant sector Relevant sector experience: assessed during the year and in this report we explain why the issues experience: Retail Retail, Technology were considered significant, which provides context for understanding 4 4 4 4 the Groups accounting policies and financial statements for the period.
In April, I will be stepping down as Chairman of the Audit Committee and I am pleased to hand responsibility to Julie Southern.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about our work.
Julie Southern Ruth Anderson Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman member since 5 February 2019 1 September 2018 Relevant sector experience: Retail 1 1 Actual meetings attended Possible meetings the Director could have attended At least two members of the Audit Committee Ruth Anderson and This report aims to share some of the Committees Julie Southern are considered by the Board to have competence discussions from the year, providing insight in accounting and all members have recent and relevant financial experience.
Ruth Anderson and Julie Southern are chartered regarding the role of the Committee, the accountants with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Committees essential function in ensuring the and Wales.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sectors and the effectiveness of the assurance in which the Company operates, notably the retail and technology framework and internal controls.
Details of each Audit Committee members relevant sector experience can be found in the diagram above.
The biography of Ruth Anderson each member of the Audit Committee is set out in the Directors Audit Committee Chairman Report section on pages 138 and 139.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 76 05-Feb-19 2:09:04 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 77 As required under the Terms of Reference, the Audit Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors and the Audit Committee has held three Membership and Meetings meetings during the year.
During the year, composition of the Audit Committee changed as a result of the retirement from the Board and Audit Committee of Alex Mahon in December 2017 and the appointment of Julie Southern.
Julie Southern became a member of the Audit Committee on her appointment to the Board on 1 September 2018.
With effect from 1 April 2019, Julie Southern will succeed Ruth Anderson as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The timing of meetings coincide with key intervals in the reporting and audit cycle for the Group.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports at each Board meeting on the business conducted at the previous Audit Committee meeting, any recommendations made by the Audit Committee and the discharge of its responsibilities as set out in this report.
Regular attendees at the Audit Committee meetings include the Chief Financial Officer, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Finance and Risk Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor.
Other attendees who attend as required include the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, a number of senior members of the finance department, other members of senior management and operational teams and other advisers to the Company.
The Deputy Company Secretary is the secretary to the Audit Committee.
Key Areas of Focus for the Audit Committee The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its Terms of Reference.
The Audit Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its Terms of Reference, with standing items that the Audit Committee considers at each meeting, in addition to areas of risk identified for detailed review and any matters that arise during the year.
The main matters that the Audit Committee considered during the year are described below.
Financial Statements and Reporting: The Audit Committee monitored the financial reporting processes for the Group, which included reviewing reports from, and discussing these with, the external auditor.
As part of the year end reporting process the Audit Committee reviewed this Annual Report, a management report on accounting estimates and judgements, the external auditors reports on internal controls, accounting and reporting matters, and management representation letters concerning accounting and reporting matters.
Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, the financial reporting process and reviewing the significant accounting issues are key roles of the Audit Committee.
The Board ensures this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy and the Audit Committee plays an important role in assisting the Board in reaching those conclusions.
For information concerning the process followed by the Company in preparing this Annual Report see pages 72 and 73 of the Corporate Governance Statement.
The Audit Committee also monitors the financial reporting processes for the Groups half year report, which is a similar role to the one it carries out for full year reporting.
Accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty: The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed reports from management on accounting policies, current accounting issues and the key judgements and estimates in relation to this Annual Report.
It assessed whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted and the reasonableness of the judgements and estimates that had been made by management.
This section outlines those significant issues which received particular focus from the Audit Committee in relation to the financial statements for the period and how these issues were addressed.
Accounting for revenue: The Audit Committee reviewed the impact of the new accounting standard, International Financial Reporting Standard IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, on the accounting for revenue received from the Groups customers, which includes contracts signed with new Ocado Solutions partners at the end of 2017 and during 2018, the existing Morrisons contracts and the customers of the retail business segment.
Possible meetings the Director The Audit Committee considered and agreed with managements proposal to adopt early the new accounting standard because several Ocado could have attended Solutions contracts were signed in the period, which would in any case result in additional reporting disclosures and restated comparable numbers.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effect of the standard on the restatement of results included in this Annual Report and the related disclosure in the notes to the financial statements concerning the significant changes to the Groups accounting policies in respect of revenue recognition.
The timing of revenue recognition requires management judgement.
The Audit Committee considered reports from management on its detailed review of the Ocado Solutions contracts, the judgements made in particular with regards to contract life, the amount and timing of revenue recognition both commencement date and time period for recognition for the relevant performance obligations and the evidence used to support those judgements.
The Audit Committee also received reports from the auditors with regards to their audit procedures, including their review of the Ocado Solutions contracts and accounting treatment applied by management.
Adoption of the new standard has meant that revenue recognised is restated in respect of the 2017 financial year and resulted in a reduction in revenue recognised for that period of 9.3 million and has resulted in a reduction in net assets and retained earnings of 23.1 million.
The overall impact also means that less revenue will be recognised in the period than otherwise would have been the case under the old accounting standard.
See notes 1.4, 1.5, 2.1 and 2.4 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 156, 161 and 166.
indd 77 05-Feb-19 2:09:04 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 78 Audit Committee Report Impact on Financial Information Issue and Nature of Judgement Factors and Reasons Considered and and Disclosure in Financial or Estimate Conclusion Statements Area Accounting for The adoption of IFRS 15 has led to The Audit Committee reviewed The Group restated the 2017 Ocado Solutions significant changes in the revenue the management proposal for the results for the adoption of IFRS contracts recognition policies for Ocado Solutions restatement of the balance sheet 15.
The Groups accounting policy balance sheet contracts and significant restatement of included in this Annual Report and for revenue has been rewritten to restatement prior period balance sheets and income approved the proposed restatement of reflect the adoption of IFRS 15. under IFRS 15 statements.
This new policy is included in full in Note 2.1 to the consolidated statements.
The new policy also includes disclosure of significant judgements and estimates in relation to the application of these accounting policies.
Accounting for Management judgement is required for The Audit Committee reviewed the The accounting treatment is Ocado Solutions recognition of revenue due to the evolving appropriateness of managements included in the Consolidated contracts nature of the business and new services proposed accounting treatment of existing Income Statement on page 149. revenue that are being provided.
The accounting for and new revenue streams in light of IFRS 15. recognition new Ocado Solutions contracts with a range The Audit Committee approved the new under IFRS 15 of deliverables and fees is complex.
They accounting policies associated with the require management judgement, including revenue recognition standard and taking with regards to the timing of recognition, into account the views of the external estimated contract life, expected customer auditor.
life and classification of income under the accounting standard.
IAS 37 - The implementation of OSP for each The Audit Committee considered There is no impact to the financial Provisions, Solutions customer is a complex project.
the management report concerning statements and no additional Contingent A typical Solutions contract includes a the progress of all current Solutions disclosures required.
Liabilities and number of key milestones during the projects.
It was concluded that there Contingent project implementation phase.
Failure to were no material risks to key milestones Assets achieve these key events can be subject to and hence there were no contingent contractual financial penalties.
judgement is required to review the progress of ongoing projects and determine whether there is a risk that Ocado will not meet the agreed key milestones and thus incur a financial penalty.
IAS 38 - The capitalisation of internal development Details of material technology projects The amount of 51.5 million Intangible costs is material and involves management which are being capitalised along with of internal development costs Assets judgements as to whether the costs the rationale for capitalisation were has been capitalised and an Capitalisation incurred meet the criteria in accounting reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The impairment charge of 0.4 million of Internal standards for capitalisation, including criteria for identification of projects which has been recognised within Development the technical feasibility of the project and may be treated as intangible assets, the intangible non-current assets, as set out in Note 3.1 to the consolidated Time and Costs the likelihood of the project delivering process to capture the costs of these financial statements on page 175. sufficient future economic benefits, and the technology projects and any potential risk of impairment when new technology impairments were discussed by the Audit supersedes previously capitalised projects.
The audit procedures carried out on the management controls by the auditors were considered.
indd 78 05-Feb-19 2:09:04 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 79 Impact on Financial Information Issue and Nature of Judgement Factors and Reasons Considered and and Disclosure in Financial or Estimate Conclusion Statements Area Recognition The estimates used to support the future The basis of management estimates of The amount of 16.6 million was of deferred tax business profitability and recognised future taxable profits of the Group and the recognised in the Consolidated asset deferred tax asset which requires process used to calculate the deferred tax Balance Sheet for the period.
asset recognised were reviewed by the Details of the deferred tax asset Audit Committee.
The review included are set out in Note 2.9 to the the recent changes in UK tax legislation consolidated financial statements on the treatment of losses and the impact on pages 170 to 172. of international expansion on the Ocado business model.
The Audit Committee supported the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying the Groups future profits forecasts including the impact of the new Solutions contracts.
The Audit Committee reviewed an update on the impact of the new international accounting standard relating to leases IFRS 16 on the Groups financial statements.
The Group has not adopted this standard early.
IFRS 16 is expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial results and financial position for future periods when adopted, including requiring the Group to bring large operating lease commitments onto the balance sheet A and the impact on the Groups EBITDA, depreciation, debt and operating profit as well as other measures.
Given their significance, management updated the quantitative analysis of the estimated impacts of IFRS 16 for recent developments.
The Audit Committee reviewed the disclosure contained in this Annual Report regarding the anticipated impact of the standards on the Groups financial results and position see note 1.2 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 154 and 155.
Our review of IFRS 16 indicates that the financial impact will result in an increase in finance leased assets of approximately 278 million, and a corresponding increase in financial liabilities of 297 million, on the consolidated balance sheet of the Groups financial statements.
The table above is not a complete list of all the Groups accounting issues, estimates and policies, but highlights the most significant ones for the period in the opinion of the Audit Committee.
Accounting for the judgemental nature surrounding commercial income for the retail business, accounting for share based A payments and exceptional items are recurring issues for the Group, but did not require a significant change in the basis of the estimate or judgement during the period, unlike some previous periods.
The accounting treatment of all significant issues and judgements was subject to review by the external auditor.
For a discussion of the areas of particular audit focus by the external auditor, refer to pages 142 to 148 of the Independent Auditors Report.
The Audit Committee considers that the Company has adopted appropriate accounting policies and made appropriate estimates and judgements.
Going Concern and Viability Assessments: The Audit Committee and the Board reviewed the Groups going concern and viability statements as set out on page 49 and the assessment reports prepared by management in support of such statements.
The report on the viability statement included updated downside scenarios in light of the agreements signed by Ocado with Solutions partners during the period.
The Audit Committee gave careful consideration to the period of assessment used for the viability statement.
It took into account a wide range of factors as set out on page 49 and concluded the time period of three years remained appropriate.
The external auditor discussed the statements with management and approved of the conclusions reached by management regarding concern and viability.
Tax Review: The Board reviewed and approved the Groups tax strategy and related statement, which was published during the year.
Risk Review: The Board has ultimate responsibility for effective management of risk for the Group including determining its risk appetite, identifying key strategic and emerging risks, and reviewing the risk management framework.
The Audit Committee, in supporting the Board to assess the effectiveness of risk management and internal control processes, relies on a number of different sources to carry out its work including an assessment report provided by Governance, Risk and Compliance, a regular finance controls self-assessment report by management, Internal Audit assurance reports and the assurance provided by the external auditor and other third parties in specific risk areas.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and the Board has agreed the continued effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including risk management.
The Board confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified during the year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
Where areas for improvement have been identified, plans have been proposed to ensure that necessary action is taken and that progress is monitored.
A See Alternative Performance Measures on pages 229 and 230 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Governance.
