Our Governance 60 Chairmans Governance Overview Remuneration and Engagement With Shareholders Our Executive Director remuneration arrangements are designed to incentivise and support the achievement of our business objectives and sustain long-term value for shareholders.
As the Groups strategy and development evolves, we expect to continue to engage with our shareholders on changes to the executive remuneration arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee oversees the Directors Remuneration Policy and this year has made a number of significant changes to it in order to The Ocado Board has long been mindful of the further align it with best practice from a corporate governance perspective importance of good corporate governance and and with shareholder expectations.
The new 2019 Directors Remuneration Policy the 2019 Policy will be put to shareholders at the Annual General the role it plays in supporting the long-term Meeting on 1 May 2019 the AGM.
The 2019 Policy has been simplified success and sustainability of the business.
but retains its emphasis on long-term incentives and rewarding long-term Lord Rose outperformance in the value of the Group relative to the FTSE.
Further detail Chairman and the 2019 Policy can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 129.
Accountability and Risk Governance Highlights The Board formally reviews the Groups risk appetite annually and Luke Jensen joined the Board in March 2018 as an Executive periodically discusses principal risks facing the Group and appropriate Director.
Risk identification, controls and cost-benefit analysis regularly Julie Southern joined the Board in September 2018 as an form part of the Boards deliberations on strategic decisions.
Monitoring independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman-elect of the the Groups risk and assurance systems is important.
In line with the new Audit Committee.
2018 Code requirements, the Board approved a refreshed whistleblowing policy and process for the Group.
For more information about how the A review of the 2019 Directors Remuneration Policy completed Company manages risk please see pages 44 to 49. by the Remuneration Committee, to be approved by shareholders at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
Leadership and Board Effectiveness A review of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, with steps The Board needs to ensure that we have the right people and leadership taken towards full compliance prior to it applying to Ocado.
in our Group to support the strategy and plans of the Group.
As well as reviewing management succession plans, the Board has considered Board composition and the existing and desired skill sets of the Board.
This important piece of work continues to form the basis of Dear Shareholder Board discussions in 2019 as we consider the make-up of the Board I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Statement that will best support the Company as it moves into the next stage of outlining the Companys approach to corporate governance.
In response to the 2018 Code, the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee were broadened to include oversight of the The Ocado Board has long been mindful of the importance of good development of a diverse pipeline for succession to the Board.
corporate governance and the role it plays in supporting the long-term success and sustainability of the business.
We are reporting against the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code for this report.
We welcomed the publication of the new UK Corporate Governance Lord Rose Code 2018 the 2018 Code by the Financial Reporting Council.
We are Chairman preparing for the implementation of the 2018 Code and while this Annual 5 February 2019 Report provides some additional information on engagement and other issues, we expect to report in more detail on these matters when the new reporting requirements apply to Ocado in the next financial year.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 60 05-Feb-19 2:07:42 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 61 Board of Directors Standing left to right Andrew Harrison Luke Jensen Ruth Anderson Mark Richardson Non-Executive Director CEO, Ocado Solutions Non-Executive Director Chief Operations Officer Age: 48 Age: 52 Age: 65 Age: 54 Jrn Rausing Duncan Tatton-Brown Douglas McCallum Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Age: 58 Age: 53 Age: 52 Seated left to right Neill Abrams Emma Lloyd Tim Steiner, OBE Julie Southern Group General Counsel Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director and Company Secretary Age: 49 Age: 49 Age: 58 Age: 54 Lord Rose Chairman Read the Directors Biographies on pages 138 and 139 Age: 69 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Governance.
indd 61 05-Feb-19 2:07:57 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 62 Corporate Governance Statement Leadership Board Structure The structure of the Board is designed to ensure that the Board focuses on strategy, monitoring the performance of the Group and governance, risk and control issues.
The following diagram shows the role of the Board and its committees and management.
Chairman Board of Directors Leads the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The business of the Company is Promotes high standards managed by the Board who may exercise all of the powers of the Company.
The Board delegates certain matters to the of governance and ensures Board committees, and delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved by the Board and the day-to-day effectiveness operational aspects of the business to the Executive Directors.
Sets the Boards agenda Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Reviews and reports to the Committee Committee Board on the Groups financial Undertakes an annual review Determines the remuneration, reporting, internal control and of succession planning and bonuses, long-term incentive risk management systems, the ensures that the membership arrangement, contract terms and independence and effectiveness and composition of the Board, other benefits in respect of the of the external auditor and the including the balance of skills, Executive Directors, the Chairman Non-Executive effectiveness of the Internal Audit remain appropriate.
Directors Constructively challenge the Executive Directors Monitor the delivery of the Groups strategy within the Chief Executive Officer Executive Directors Management risk and control framework Leads the Executive Directors Day-to-day management Committee set by the Board of the Groups operations Represents management on Implements and oversees the Board Operations and results of operational management the Group Execute the strategy once agreed by the Board Company Secretary and Group General Counsel Risk Information Treasury Safety Capital Personal Ensures that Board procedures Committee Security Committee Steering Expenditure Data Committee Committee Group Steering are followed Oversees Oversees the Committee Governance matters the Groups Monitors treasury policy Oversees the Reviews and risk register, the Groups concerning the Groups health, Supports Ensures that information flows authorises risk control information Groups cash safety and and drives capital between management, the processes security and deposits, environment data privacy expenditure Board and its committees and disaster measures investments, management governance projects, recovery and oversees foreign exchange systems and and provides overspends planning.
changes and interest monitors the assurance that and property to security rates.
progress of best practice expenditure, in systems.
mechanisms accordance with Indicates delegation are in place.
Indicates Board support The primary responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Company Secretary and the NonExecutive Directors are set out in writing and provide a system of checks and balances to ensure no individual has unfettered decision-making power.
Certain detailed aspects of the Boards responsibilities are delegated to the Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors carry out some of these responsibilities through executive-led committees.
These committees, whose roles are set out above, formally report to the Executive Directors, and may provide reports to the Board or Board committees from time to time.
The Management Committee comprises the Executive Directors and twelve members of management.
The reports by each Board committee are given in this Annual Report.
The full terms of reference for each Board committee are available on the Companys corporate website www.
indd 62 05-Feb-19 2:07:58 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 63 What the Board Did This Year The Boards activities are structured through the year to develop and support the delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Boards discussions throughout the year were focused on our strategic objectives: Driving Growth, Maximising Efficiency and Utilising Proprietary Knowledge and the actions taken by the Board throughout the period reflected these strategic goals.
The Board also regularly discussed governance, risk management and the Groups financial performance.
The table below sets out some of the Boards key areas of focus and discussions through the year and how these developed and supported our strategy.
Reporting, Risk Oversight of the Groups Strategy, Performance Management and Operations and Technology People, Governance and Responsibility and Financing Accountability Controls Development Corporate Responsibility Annual strategy conference Annual review of key risks and Approving the annual budget, the Receiving reports on people to review and set the Groups risk appetite and reviewing business plan for the Group and issues.
Discussing Corporate strategy and medium-term plan.
Overseeing Ocado Solutions Review of reports on specific Receiving reports on patent protection of Approving the Groups new negotiations and discussions.
risk areas including OSP control the Groups technology.
Monitoring grocery retail Reviewing and approving Receiving regular reports on key Receiving various reports on competitor activity.
the Groups regulatory projects including new technologies, governance and regulatory announcements and reports.
IT replatforming and development and changes, including the Group ramp-up of the Andover and Erith CFCs.
Receiving reports from senior Reviewing reports on health and Receiving regular reports on ongoing retail Receiving reports on the Groups management on trading, safety, environment, litigation, trading and customer service metrics, environmental initiatives and business performance and investor relations and legal and including call centre performance.
Providing entrepreneurial The Board is ultimately responsible Operational efficiency is regularly The Board discusses leadership to the Group with for the Companys risk appetite and discussed and challenged at Board stakeholder issues through overall responsibility for driving viability and therefore plays a key meetings and is considered an important the year, including investor, performance through debate role in reviewing the risks that face driver for both growth and developing customer and employee and constructive challenge of that business and ensuring that it our proprietary knowledge, and therefore issues.
The Board is updated management.
has and retains oversight of specific, the Groups strategy.
regularly on governance high-risk areas.
Developing effective leadership The Board discusses CompanyThe Board discusses the status and The Board receives updates in the Board and throughout the specific risks and uncertainties, progress of the implementation of key throughout the year on business and ensuring the right including the environment in projects including Solutions contracts.
recruitment and retention, personnel are in place.
which the business operates and discussed the potential such as cybercrime and Brexit.
impact of Brexit on the Groups operations, including the impact on the Groups operational strategy.
Indicates Board support As a significant part of the growth The Board reviews the The commercialisation of Ocado strategy, reviewing the strategy Companys viability statement.
Solutions is a key strategy for the Group.
of overseas expansion and the The Board reviews IP strategy and Ocado capabilities required to make this Solutions negotiations at each Board successful.
Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Governance.
indd 63 05-Feb-19 2:07:58 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 The Boards Strategic Governance Role Specific Actions During the Period Our Governance 64 Corporate Governance Statement Composition of the Board Review of Board and Board Committee Composition As noted on page 75, a number of changes were made to the composition of the Board.
In making changes to the Board, the Boards review of composition took into account various considerations including length of Director tenure, Board diversity, independence and the mix of skills and experience of the Directors.
Some of these considerations are outlined below.
Board Tenure The Board also takes into account the length of tenure of existing Directors when considering reappointment and succession planning.
Jrn Rausing has served as a Non-Executive Director for over 15 years, seven of which were before the Companys IPO, and Ruth Anderson will have served nine years in March 2019 as a Non-Executive Director.
Accordingly, the recommendation of their reappointment to the Board was subject to particular scrutiny including the importance of maintaining Board continuity.
The first chart below illustrates the tenure of Directors.
Board Diversity The Board and Nomination Committee are mindful of the corporate governance developments in the areas of diversity.
The second chart below illustrates the gender diversity of the Board.
The Board has reviewed its policy and objectives on diversity and more detail on this review can be found on page 75.
Independence The Code recommends that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Since, excluding the Chairman, there were six Non-Executive Directors all determined by the Board to be independent and five Executive Directors, the Board complies with this recommendation at the end of the period.
The third chart below illustrates the composition of the Board in respect of the independence of its members as at the end of the period.
Similarly, the composition of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee comply in all respects with the independence provisions of the Code.
Length of Tenure of Chairman and Gender Diversity Board Independence Non-Executive Directors 3 9 42% 2 5 50% 4 3 3 1 1 03 36 610 10 Whole Board Executive Non-Executive 8% years years years years Male Female Executive Directors Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 64 05-Feb-19 2:08:04 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 65 The Board has scrutinised the factors relevant to its determination of the independence of Non-Executive Directors Jrn Rausing and Ruth Anderson.
Jrn Rausing Jrn Rausing has been a Director for almost 16 years, albeit less than nine of these in the era of the Company being listed.
Jrn is a beneficiary of the Apple III Trust, which owns Apple III Limited together, Apple, a significant approximately 10% shareholder of the Company.
Jrn is not a representative of Apple, nor does Apple have any right to appoint a Director to the Board.
The Board considers his continuing Directorship to benefit the Group and support the principles of the Code.
Jrns significant experience as an owner and manager at Tetra Laval, a global technology and industrial group, enhances the skills and experience on the Board in addition to bringing international expertise during a period when the Group is expanding substantially outside of the UK.
Jrn also ensures there is a longterm perspective brought to the Boards decision-making reflecting the approach adopted at Tetra Laval to its own technology development and commercial expansion.
The Board considers Jrn to be independent in character and judgement and does not believe the size of Apples shareholding nor the duration of Jrns tenure on the Board amounts to a relationship or circumstance which may affect his judgement.
Jrn has stood for re-election annually since 2011 and on each occasion has been re-elected by a substantial majority of shareholders.
Ruth Anderson Ruth Anderson will have been a Non-Executive Director for nine years in March 2019.
The Board considers her continuing Directorship to benefit the Group and support the principles of the Code.
Ruths membership of the Board brings continuity and stability to the Board.
Ruth will be stepping down as Chairman of the Audit Committee from April 2019.
Mix of knowledge and experience on the Board Board Independence 42% RETAIL TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL 50% OPERATIONS 6 5 5 8% Chairman E-COMMERCE FINANCE AUTOMATED ACCOUNTING ENGINEERING 3 4 3 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Governance.
indd 65 05-Feb-19 2:08:04 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 e l B c y o a C r d w e E i f v e e c R t i s v s e e n Our Governance 66 Corporate Governance Statement Review of Board Effectiveness An annual effectiveness review of the Board is conducted to evaluate the performance of the Board.
The review is an important opportunity to be able to recognise individual and collective strengths and weaknesses, which prompt required changes and are also taken into account during the Board succession process.
2016 2017 2018 Independent, externally Internal performance Internal performance facilitated review review progress against review of progress external review assessed Board Effectiveness Review Cycle This year, a Board evaluation was facilitated internally using a specialist platform containing online questionnaires which included a range of questions based on the best practice recommendations described in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and other guidelines.
It was agreed that the review would be carried out with the same support from an external, independent consultant, Independent Audit Limited, who provided online questionnaires for the 2017 review.
The evaluation process was led by the Completion of Chairman and supported by the Company Secretary.
online questionnaires on the effectiveness of The questionnaire prepared for the Board covered specific the Board, its Directors and individual areas relating to leadership, strategy, risk management committees and culture, and focused on the Boards involvement and understanding of the business.
It also sought to highlight any 1 improvement in processes, effectiveness of decision-making, Key areas identified and composition, skills, balance and diversity of the Board.
Collation of results and action plan and preparation 2 prepared and 4 of a detailed report The questionnaire designed for the individual Directors approved by on the findings and the Board questioned how well each Director continues to contribute actions effectively to the meetings and demonstrates commitment 3 to the role including time for Board and committee meetings and other duties.
Board evaluation report discussed in the Board and committee meetings Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 66 05-Feb-19 2:08:04 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 n e s e s v i R t c e v e i f e E w d C r y a c o l e B e l B c y o a C r d w e E i f v e e c R t i s v s e e n Our Governance 67 Internal Board Evaluation Results The results of the review were evaluated by the Company Secretary and the Chairman, and a Board evaluation report was prepared and produced to the Board for discussion.
The results indicated that the consensus view was that the Board and its committees work in a constructive and collaborative way, and were operating effectively.
However, the review highlighted a number of focus areas for the Board and its committees to consider during 2019, including: Action to be taken in 2019 based on the results of review and Progress made Some key areas identified specific issues flagged from 2017 review Leadership required to support senior management Consider the appointment of Non-Executive Directors with software N A with technological development internationally.
and e-commerce experience to complement existing experience.
Succession planning for senior management Increase the focus on building up the senior management team.
to ensure it has the right balance of skills and experience to drive forward the international expansion of the business.
More informal time together outside of the Add into the Board calendar pre-meeting and post-meeting social Boardroom.
events away from the Boardroom, such as breakfast and dinners.
Shifting the Board agenda focus areas.
Spend more time on discussing and reviewing progress made N A delivering Ocado Solutions objectives and commitments.
indd 67 05-Feb-19 2:08:13 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 n e s e s v i R t c e v e i f e E w d C r y a c o l e B Our Governance 68 Corporate Governance Statement Board Attendance Executive Directors Board Attendance Non-Executive Directors Tim Steiner 11 11 Lord Rose 11 11 Duncan Tatton-Brown 11 11 Jrn Rausing 8 11 Mark Richardson 11 11 Douglas McCallum 11 11 Neill Abrams 11 11 Andrew Harrison 10 11 1 Luke Jensen 8 8 Ruth Anderson 11 11 1.
Luke Jensen joined the Board on 1 March 2018.
Julie Southern joined the Board on 1 September 2018.
Actual meetings Possible meetings the Director attended could have attended Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 68 05-Feb-19 2:08:17 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 69 Director Meetings The attendance record of the Directors at scheduled Board meetings during the period is set out in the chart on the left.
The Board scheduled 11 meetings during the period.
Details of attendance at committee meetings are set out in the relevant committee report.
During the period, the Non-Executive Directors held a number of meetings without the Executive Directors present.
Director Election Each Director is required under the Articles to retire at every annual general meeting each Director may offer himself or herself for re-appointment by the members at such meeting.
At the last annual general meeting on 2 May 2018, all of the current Directors except Julie Southern who had not yet been appointed stood for re-appointment, and were duly elected with a range of 96.29% to 99.94% of votes cast by shareholders in favour of re-appointment.
All Directors will retire and seek re-election at the AGM.
The explanatory notes set out in the Notice of Meeting state the reasons why the Board believes a Director proposed for re-election at the AGM should be re-appointed.
The Board has based its recommendations for re-election, in part, on its review of the results from the Board evaluation process outlined on page 67, on the reviews of the Chairman and of the Executive Directors conducted at the meetings of the Non-Executive Directors, the Chairmans review of individual evaluations, and whether a Director has demonstrated substantial commitment to the role including time for Board and committee meetings noted in this report and other responsibilities, taking into account a number of considerations including outside commitments and any changes thereof outlined below during the period.
The rules that the Company has about the appointment and replacement of Directors are described in the Directors Report on page 131.
External Board Appointments and Conflicts There have been a number of changes to the Directors external appointments during the period as set out in the table below.
The Chairman and the Board are kept informed by each Director of any proposed external appointments or other significant commitments as they arise.
These are monitored to ensure that each Director has sufficient time to fulfil his obligations.
Each Directors biographical details and significant time commitments outside of the Company are set out in the Directors Biographies section on pages 138 and 139.
Director Change in Commitment Effective Date of Change Andrew Harrison Appointed as Chairman of Housesimple Limited February 2018 Lord Rose Resigned as director of Woolworths Holdings Limited, listed in South Africa May 2018 Ruth Anderson Resigned as director of Coats Group plc May 2018 Duncan Tatton-Brown Resigned as director of ZPG Limited July 2018 Julie Southern Appointed as director of EasyJet plc August 2018 Andrew Harrison Appointed as director of Chikn Ltd September 2018 Andrew Harrison Resigned as director of The Carphone Warehouse Limited November 2018 Whenever a Director takes on additional external responsibilities, the Board considers and monitors any potential conflicts that could arise.
The Companies Act provides that Directors must avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
Boards of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys articles of association permit which the Companys Articles do.
Each Director is required to disclose conflicts and potential conflicts to the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
As part of his or her induction process, a newly appointed Director completes a questionnaire which requires him or her to disclose any conflicts of interest to the Company.
Thereafter, each Director has an opportunity to disclose conflicts at the beginning of each Board and Board committee meeting and as part of an annual review.
Two Directors declared a potential conflict of interest in relation to a matter which was being discussed by the Board and as such did not participate in the meetings regarding these matters.
None of the other Directors declared to the Company any actual or potential conflicts of interest between any of his or her duties to the Company and his or her private interests and or other duties, except in the case of the Executive Directors, each of whom holds the position of Director of the Company and Director of a number of Group subsidiary companies.
The system in place for monitoring potential Director conflicts remained effective throughout the period.
indd 69 05-Feb-19 2:08:18 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 70 Corporate Governance Statement Board Induction and Professional Development On joining the Board, it is the responsibility of the Chairman and Company Secretary to ensure that all newly appointed Directors receive a full and formal induction which is tailored to their individual needs.
The induction programme includes a comprehensive overview of the Group, dedicated time with Executive Directors and senior management, as well as guidance on the duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a listed company.
Directors visit CFCs and participate in van delivery routes to allow them to gain sufficient knowledge and understanding of the business, operations and culture.
These activities formed part of the induction programme for Julie Southern, who joined the Board in September 2018.
The Board and committees receive training, including in specialist areas.
Training is typically arranged by the Company Secretary in consultation with the Chairman or Committee Chairman.
The members of the Remuneration Committee received updates from the Remuneration Committees remuneration advisers including on the new remuneration reporting market practices.
Members of the Audit Committee receive written technical updates from the external auditor to keep them abreast of the latest accounting, auditing, tax and reporting developments.
The Board have also received briefings from external advisers on a range of strategic matters.
Independent professional advice is available at the Companys expense if necessary and the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary when required.
Information for Directors The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all of the Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate information from time to time, including briefing papers distributed in advance of the Board meetings.
Directors can, where they judge it to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Board committees have access to sufficient resources to discharge their duties, including external consultants and advisers.
Engagement with Shareholders Investor Relations The Company is committed to keeping shareholders informed of its strategy and progress.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Company has appropriate channels of communication with its shareholders and is supported in this by the Executive Directors.
The Company regularly meets with its large investors and institutional shareholders who, along with analysts, are invited to presentations by the Company after the announcement of the Companys results.
The Company conducts biannual investor roadshows in line with the reporting cycle and also addresses current and prospective shareholders at various investment conferences and other events, both in the UK and abroad.
The Board regularly receives feedback from the Companys brokers, advisers and the Executive Directors on the views of major shareholders and the investor relations programme and also receives reports at each Board meeting on the main changes to the composition of the Companys share register.
Lord Rose and the Board of Directors are available to the Companys shareholders for discussions, and have met with various investors throughout the year to discuss matters such as strategy, corporate governance and executive remuneration.
We held a number of investor days at our new CFCs in 2018 to enable our investors to view the progress at the new sites.
The Group also engages with shareholders in the event of a substantial vote against a resolution proposed at an annual general meeting.
More information about this can be found in the Directors Report on page 133.
For more information on the resolutions proposed for the 2019 AGM, please refer to the Directors Report on pages 130 to 139.
Directors Remuneration Policy This year the Remuneration Committee has proposed a number of changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The 2019 Policy will be put to shareholders to vote on at the 2019 AGM.
The Company consulted its largest shareholders on the key changes to the policy.
For more information on the consultation and the 2019 Policy, please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 129.
indd 70 05-Feb-19 2:08:18 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 71 Formal Reporting to Shareholders and Directors Responsibility The Company reports to its shareholders in a number of ways including formal regulatory news service announcements in accordance with the Companys reporting obligations, trading statements of sales performance published in March, September and December each year, the half year report, the preliminary announcement of annual results, the annual report, and investor presentations slides and videos.
The Company makes available these documents, including this Annual Report and other information concerning the Company, on its corporate website.
All shareholders can choose to receive an Annual Report in paper or electronic form.
The Company reports its quarterly trading performance, including information on the growth of the Groups revenue, average order numbers and size and its cash and borrowings position.
The Company believes that it is important to update the market on a quarterly basis due to the importance shareholders place on receiving regular updates about sales and the current competitive pressures in the UK grocery market.
The Groups rate of sales growth is key to understanding the extent to which it is achieving one of its key strategic objectives: Driving Growth.
The Directors take responsibility for preparing this Annual Report and make a statement to shareholders to this effect.
The statement of Directors responsibility on pages 136 and 137 of this Annual Report is made at the conclusion of a robust and effective process undertaken by the Company for the preparation and review of this Annual Report.
The Directors believe that these well-established arrangements enable them to ensure that the information presented in this Annual Report complies with the disclosure requirements including those in the Companies Act, and is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
In addition to this Annual Report, the Companys internal processes cover to the extent necessary the preliminary announcement, the half year report, trading statements and other financial reporting.
The Companys internal processes in the preparation and review of this Annual Report and other financial reporting include: review of and feedback on iterations of this Annual Report by the Executive Directors and the full Board: in-depth review of specific sections of this Annual Report by the relevant Board committees: Audit Committee review of a management report on accounting estimates and judgements, auditor and management reports on internal controls and risk management, accounting and reporting matters and a management representation letter concerning accounting and reporting matters for further information see pages 76 to 81 : Board and Audit Committee review of a supporting paper specifically highlighting the parts of this Annual Report that best evidenced how this Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable: paper from the Company Secretary highlighting how reporting, regulatory and governance issues had been addressed in this Annual Report: Board and Audit Committee review of management reports on assessments on going concern and viability: the Audit Committee regularly reporting to the Board on the discharge of its responsibilities: input from both internal and external legal advisers and other advisers to cover relevant regulatory, governance and disclosure obligations: discussions between contributors and management to identify relevant and material information: detailed debates and discussions concerning the principal risks and uncertainties: checking of factual statements and financial information against source materials: specific Board review of Directors belief statement and key statements: and separate approval by the Group General Counsel, the Board committees and the Board.
The statement by the external auditor on its reporting responsibilities is set out in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 142 to 148.
In addition to this Annual Report, the Group provides other statements to its shareholders regarding the Group and its operations, including the modern slavery statement, tax strategy statement, gender pay and supplier payments.
For further information on the Groups activities in these areas, see the Strategy Report on pages 4 to 57.
