Corporate governance statement Introduction no areas of non-compliance and this was achieved through This section explains key features of the Companys governance the strong governance structure in place.
structure and how it complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2016 by the Financial Reporting Throughout the reporting period, the Company was a Council.
This section also includes items required by the Listing smaller company as defined in the Code.
As the Company Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules entered the FTSE 250 during the reporting period, the DTRs.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Company will cease to be a smaller company with effect Council website at www.
from the reporting period commencing on 1 October 2018 and ending on 30 September 2019 FY19.
Compliance with the 2016 Code The Company is committed to achieving and maintaining the Details and explanations of the application of the principles highest standards of corporate governance.
During the financial of corporate governance are set out in the following sections year ending 30 September 2018 the reporting period the of this Corporate Governance Statement.
Company was compliant with the Code in its entirety.
There are BOARD OF DIRECTORS Executive Nomination Renumeration Audit Disclosure Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Team Leadership including financial, operational and compliance controls and Role of the Board for reviewing the overall effectiveness of systems in place The Board is comprised of five members: the Non-Executive and for the approval of any changes to the capital, corporate Chair of the Board, two Executive Directors and two Nonand or management structure of the Group.
Executive Directors for the period between 3 July 2018 and 28 September 2018, there were three Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are supported by an Executive team Details of the skills and expertise of each member of the Board to whom the Board delegates the detailed implementation is set out in the profiles on pages 45 and 46. of matters approved by the Board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the business, who cascade this The Board is also responsible for leading and controlling the responsibility throughout the Group.
The Board has close Group and has overall authority for the management and contact with the wider Executive team, who are regularly conduct of the Groups business, strategy and development.
invited to attend meetings of the Board to provide functional The Board is also responsible for ensuring the maintenance presentations in relation to strategic matters of interest to of a sound system of internal control and risk management the Board.
48 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Matters reserved to the Board The Board has reserved certain specific matters to itself for decision.
The full schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys website, or from the Company Secretary upon request, but the key matters include: Approval of and changes to annual operating and capital expenditure budgets Extension of the Groups activities into new business or geographic areas: Changes to the Groups capital or corporate structure, including acquisitions and disposals: Financial reporting and controls: Internal controls, including maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management: Approval of major contracts and commitments: Communication with shareholders: Board membership and senior appointments: Remuneration: Delegation of authority to committees and below board level: Corporate governance matters: and Approval of policies adopted by the Group.
Board Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to four Board Committees to assist it with discharging its duties.
A summary of the terms of reference for each Committee is set out below but the full terms of reference are available on the Companys website and from the Company Secretary upon request.
Committee Role and terms of reference Members Report on page Audit Committee Reviews and reports to the Board Elaine ODonnell member since 3 July 2018, 57 on the Groups financial reporting, Chair from 3 September 2018 internal control and risk management Lee Ginsberg Chair until 3 September 2018 systems, whistleblowing, internal David Kelly audit and the independence and Richard Segal until 28 September 2018 effectiveness of the external auditors.
Remuneration Responsible for all elements of David Kelly Chair 61 Committee the remuneration of the Executive Lee Ginsberg Directors and the Chair, and other Richard Segal until 28 September 2018 members of senior management.
Elaine ODonnell from 3 July 2018 Nomination Reviews structure, size and Lee Ginsberg Chair from 3 September 2018 55 Committee composition of Board and its Richard Segal Chair until 3 September 2018, Committees and makes appropriate member until 28 September 2018 recommendations to Board.
David Kelly Elaine ODonnell from 3 July 2018 Disclosure Responsible for overseeing the Simon Cooper Chair N A Committee Companys compliance with the Lee Ginsberg from 3 September 2018 Market Abuse Regulation and making Richard Segal until 3 September 2018 decisions with support of advisers Paul Meehan on when information must be disclosed to the market.
49 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Corporate governance statement Board and committee meetings The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for managing the Board meetings and Audit Committee meetings, where business and driving it forward, including the responsibility appropriate are scheduled to coincide with the Companys for: financial reporting calendar, including the announcement of full the operations of the Group: and half year results, and the AGM.
developing Group objectives and strategy, having regard to the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, The Company has a Board and Committee calendar, which customers, employees and other stakeholders: is updated regularly and which sets out all matters to be following presentation to, and approval by, the Board, covered by the Board and Committees over a rolling twelvefor the successful implementation and achievement of month period, including strategy, standard business, matters those strategies and objectives: directly linked with financial reporting and results, corporate ensuring that the Groups businesses are managed in line governance requirements and ongoing training for the Board.
with strategy and approved business plans, and comply with applicable legislation and Group policy: During the reporting period, twelve Board meetings were held.
ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and All Board meetings were attended by all Directors who were setting Group human resource policies, including entitled to attend.
management development and succession planning for the Senior Executive team.
There have been 3 meetings of the Audit Committee, 8 meetings of the Remuneration Committee and 3 meetings of Non-Executive Directors and Senior Independent Director the Nomination Committee each attended by all members of In addition to the Chair, the Company has two independent the Committees.
Non-Executive Directors, who are appointed to bring independence, impartiality, wide experience, special Disclosure committee knowledge and personal qualities to the Board.
The Disclosure Committee maintains procedures, systems and controls for the identification, treatment and disclosure of inside The Code recommends that the board of directors of a information and ensures compliance with the obligations falling company with a premium listing on the Official List should on the Company and its directors and employees under the appoint one of the Non-Executive Directors to be the Senior Market Abuse Regulation EU No 596 2014 and the Listing Independent Director to provide a sounding board for the Rules of the London Stock Exchange.
Chair and to serve as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
The Senior Independent Director should The Disclosure Committee reviews market announcements, be available to shareholders if they have concerns which identifies potential inside information, creates and amends contact through the normal channels of the Chair, CEO or insider information lists and implements disclosure procedures.
other Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
David Kelly was appointed Insurance cover Senior Independent Director on 3 September 2018 when The Company has made arrangements for appropriate Lee Ginsberg stepped down from this position upon his insurance cover to be put in place in respect of legal action appointment as Chair of the Board.
Regularly, following the end of board meetings the Chair Division of responsibilities and Non-Executive Directors meet formally without the The roles of Chair and Chief Executive Officer are exercised by Executive Directors present in order to provide evaluation on different individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Executive Directors.
Similarly, the Non-Executive Directors the Chair and the Chief Executive Officer has been defined, meet to evaluate and appraise the Chairs performance.
These formalised in writing, and approved by the Board.
regular appraisals are important to evaluate the knowledge and skills of members of the board.
The Chair is responsible for: the leadership and effectiveness of the Board and setting its Where directors have a concern which cannot be resolved agenda and ensuring sufficient time is available for about the Company or a proposed action, their concern would discussion of agenda items, in particular strategic issues: be minuted by the Company Secretary following the relevant ensuring that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear Board or Committee meeting.
information on financial, business and corporate matters to make sound Board decisions: facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors: ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: ensuring that the performance of individual Directors, the Board as a whole and its Committees is evaluated at least once a year.
50 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EFFECTIVENESS Appointments to the Board The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board Composition of the Board: balance of skills and appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
The independence Nomination Committee were involved in all Board changes As a smaller company, the Code recommends that the during the year.
Please see page 55 for the report of the Company should have at least two independent non-executive Nomination Committee.
The Board consists of two Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chair and two Executive Directors.
The The Board can appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill Company regards both of the Non-Executive Directors as a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director independent Non-Executive Directors within the meaning of so appointed shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall the Code and free from any relationship that could materially then be eligible for election by the shareholders.
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Following recommendations from the Nomination Committee, Lee Ginsberg holds a minor shareholding in the Company the Board considers that all Directors continue to be effective, of 16,300 Ordinary Shares, representing 0.013% of the committed to their roles and are able to devote sufficient time Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The Board does to their duties.
Accordingly, all Directors will seek election at the not consider this to threaten Lees independence given the Companys forthcoming AGM.
shareholding is minor and is not material in the context of Lees wider business interests and shareholdings.
Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Board may invite the Director to The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the serve for an additional period.
Chair of a company admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List should meet the independence criteria set out in Diversity the Code.
The Board regards each of Richard Segal Chair until The Group is committed to eliminating discrimination and 3 September 2018 and Lee Ginsberg Chair from 3 September encouraging diversity amongst the workforce.
We have an 2018 as an independent Non-Executive Director within the equality and diversity policy in place in order to promote a meaning of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In reaching culture that actively values differences and recognises that this determination, the Board has had regard to i each people from different backgrounds and experiences can bring Directors shareholding in the Company: and ii the material valuable insights to the workplace.
We are aware of the need business relationships he has developed within the Group over to keep under review the diversity of our organisation as a his tenure with the Company.
The Board is satisfied with the whole, including our Board, in all respects including in terms judgment, experience and approach adopted by each Director of socio-economic background, race, ethnicity, gender, sexual and has determined that each Director is of independent orientation, age, physical abilities, religious beliefs, political character and judgment, notwithstanding the circumstances beliefs and other ideologies.
described at i and ii above, on the grounds that in the context of each Directors wider business interests and shareholdings, It is important that we maintain a diverse workforce across all this is not material and therefore unlikely to challenge their these areas, but one particular area of focus for the organisation independence.
In the technology industry as a whole, there is a considerable gender imbalance, with significantly more men The Board considers, on the recommendation of the than women going into the industry.
This trend is reflected in Nomination Committee, that the Board and its Committees On the Beachs IT development team, but we are committed to have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, taking steps to attract and retain women into our IT team see independence and knowledge of the Company taking into page 39 for more details.
account the respective skills, experience, independence and knowledge of each of the Directors.
This will continue to be Should a Board vacancy arise, the recruitment process will monitored by the Nomination Committee.
be led by the Nomination Committee who will ensure that diversity, in all forms, is taken into consideration.
See the report of the Nomination Committee on page 55 for further details.
51 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Corporate governance statement As at 30 September 2018, the average age of our employees was 33 years old and the gender split between employees was as follows: Other employees Male Female Percentage of female Senior Management employees Directors of the 4 1 20% Company Directors of the Group Senior management 29 13 31% Other employees 151 307 49% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% AGM Male Female Our Annual General Meeting will be held at 11am on 7 February 2019 at Aeroworks, 5 Adair Street, Manchester M1 2NQ.
All shareholders will have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
The notice of the AGM Development of Directors is available on our corporate website and sets out the business The Company has an induction programme for all new of the meeting and an explanatory note.
Separate resolutions Directors joining the board which was completed by Elaine are proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
The Chair continually reviews the training needs of Directors according to their individual needs.
All members of the Board will be present at the AGM and will This review is ongoing and forms part of the annual appraisal be able to answer any questions from shareholders.
Commitment and external directorships The Directors attend development days during the year Any external appointments or other significant commitments of where they are provided with updates on developments and the Directors require the prior approval of the Board.
training on certain areas in order to deepen and develop their understanding of particular areas of the business.
These The Chair, the Non-Executive Directors and the CEO each hold development days are in addition to the regular training external directorships, and these are disclosed within their arranged by the Company Secretary.
Directors also undertake profiles on pages 45 and 46. individual training which gives them the opportunity to undertake a deep dive into certain areas of the business.
The Board is comfortable that the external directorships do not impact on the time that any director devotes to the Company Information and support and in the Boards view, these external directorships enhance All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who the collective experience of the Board.
advises them on governance matters.
Directors conflicts of interests Directors receive and access their board papers via an Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which electronic portal.
The Chair and the Company Secretary work they have or may have interests that conflict with those of the together to ensure that board papers are clear, accurate and Company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
of sufficient quality to ensure the Board can discharge its This includes potential conflicts that may arise when a Director duties.
takes up a position with another Company.
The Companys Articles of Association enable the Board to authorise potential Specific business-related presentations are given by senior conflicts of interest which may arise and to impose limits or management as part of board meetings where appropriate.
conditions, as appropriate, when giving any authorisation.
As well as the support of the Company Secretary, Directors have access to the Companys professional advisers where Any decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of interest is considered necessary.
only effective if it is agreed without the conflicted Director s voting or without their vote s being counted.
In making such a decision, the Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be the most likely to promote the success of the Company.
The Company maintains a register of related parties and register of Directors interests, which is reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
52 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board evaluation David Kelly, as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, has The Board is committed to, and understands the value and engaged major shareholders in advance of the proposed importance of the evaluation and appraisal of the performance changes to the remuneration policy see pages 65 to 72. of the Board, its Committees, and of the individual Directors and the Chair.
The Board has carried out an evaluation to review The Board is aware that institutional shareholders may the composition, experience and skills to ensure that the Board be in more regular contact with the Company than other and its Committees continue to work effectively and that the shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that any priceDirectors are demonstrating a commitment to their roles.
sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time, in accordance with the legal This years board evaluation was the third undertaken by the requirements.
Company and was conducted in-house.
Next year the Board will consider whether to consider to undertake an externally Questions from individual shareholders are generally dealt with facilitated evaluation.
As part of the evaluation process, questionnaires were All shareholders can access announcements, investor completed by each board member in order to compare presentations and the Annual Report on the Companys performance against the Corporate Governance Code.
questionnaire covered leadership, effectiveness, accountability, The Senior Independent Director, David Kelly, is available to shareholder relations, meetings and administration.
The shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised Board approved the agreed questionnaires and then these through the normal channels or if such concerns have not been were completed electronically.
Results were analysed and the resolved.
Arrangements can be made to meet with him through Company Secretary prepared a report for the Chair.
This was the Company Secretary.
tabled for discussion at a Board meeting.
6R DTR The evaluation established that the Board and its Committees In accordance with the requirements of the Disclosure and were operating effectively and efficiently, with good leadership Transparency Rules, Rule 7.2.
6R, pages 85 to 87 contains and accountability.
The Board dynamic works well, with great details of significant shareholdings, special rights attached to dedication and commitment of each of the Board members, securities and voting rights and all other matters required to be and with the appropriate level of support and challenge from disclosed.
No major issues arose and it was acknowledged that the appointment of Elaine ODonnell Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf: had improved diversity on the Board which was previously a concern.
K Vickerstaff Company Secretary Investor relations 28 November 2018 The Company is committed to engaging and maintaining an active dialogue with all of its shareholders.
The Company has rolled out an investor relations programme enabling dialogue and meetings between the Executive Directors and institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed within the constraints of information which has already been made public.
53 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OUR VALUES: INNOVATION As a tech driven company, innovation isnt just a buzz word to us.
Were proud to punch above our weight, and were aiming every day to out-innovate the market, be they industry stalwarts or Silicon Valley start-ups.
Chris Director of Product and Innovation 54 54 ON ON THE BEA THE BEACH GR CH GROUP OUP PL PLC C | | ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T & & A AC CC COUNT OUNTS 2018 S 2018
