STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for 2018, Three meetings were held during the year: my first as Chair of Audit Committee.
Meetings Percentage of With the assistance of management and KPMG, the attended meetings Committee has considered the main financial reporting attended issues, estimates and judgements, and we believe that Lee Ginsberg 3 3 100% the information in the Annual Report is fair, balanced, and David Kelly 3 3 100% understandable and clearly explains progress against our Richard Segal 3 3 100% strategic and operating objectives.
There has been no Elaine ODonnell 1 1 100% correspondence from audit regulators, including the Financial Reporting Council, during the financial year.
Financial Reporting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial We believe that rigorous internal controls and robust risk reporting is to review and monitor the integrity of the financial management processes are an essential part of delivering statements, including annual and half-year reports, result shareholder value.
The Committee has assisted the Board in announcements, dividend proposals and any other formal performing a review of effectiveness of the processes and announcement relating to the Groups financial performance.
The Committee has looked at the quality and appropriateness Members of the Audit Committee of the accounting principles and policies adopted and whether Elaine ODonnell member since 3 July 2018, Chair since 3 management had made appropriate underlying estimates September 2018 and judgements.
In carrying out this review, the Committee Lee Ginsberg Chair until 3 September 2018 has looked at management reports in respect of the main Richard Segal member until 28 September 2018 financial reporting issues and judgements made, together with David Kelly reports prepared by the external auditor on the 2018 half-year statement and Annual Report 2018.
Composed of three independent Non-Executive Directors Elaine ODonnell is considered by the Board to have Work undertaken by the Committee in relation to 2018 extensive recent and relevant financial experience and all Financial Statements members have had experience in large organisations The Committee has reviewed the content of the 2018 Annual Directors biographies appear on pages 45 and 46.
Report and considered whether, taken as a whole, in its At least three meetings held per year opinion it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Meetings are attended by the Chief Financial Officer, Chief the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Executive, Company Secretary and external auditor by Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
invitation The Committee was provided with a draft of the Annual Report in order to assess the strategic direction and key messages being communicated.
The Committee provided feedback highlighting any areas in which they felt that further clarity or information was required and this was then incorporated into the report provided for Audit Committee approval.
We believe that rigorous internal controls and robust risk management processes are an essential part of delivering shareholder value.
The Committee has assisted the Board in performing a review of effectiveness of the processes and systems in place.
Elaine ODonnell CHAIR, AUDIT COMMITTEE 57 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Report of the Audit Committee Internal audit The Group will shortly commence a tender process for the The Group did not have a stand-alone internal audit appointment of an external auditor.
The tender process department during the year.
The Committee has reviewed will be supervised by the Committee, who will then make the need for an internal audit function during the year and a recommendation to the Board on the appointment or considers that having no internal audit function is appropriate reappointment of the audit as applicable.
on the grounds that: The business operates from a single site: In the meantime, the Group will be propsing the re-appointment Procedures and routines are well established across the of its current auditor at the 2019 AGM.
business: and There is a significant degree of senior oversight, particularly Non-audit services in respect of ongoing business performance, involving both The Companys external auditor may also be used to provide the CEO and CFO.
specialist advice where, as a result of their position as auditors, they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work in The Committee will, as part of its remit, continue to evaluate question.
A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision of the effectiveness and robustness of the current system of non-audit services by the external auditor to ensure that there control as the Group grows in particular with the move to two is adequate protection of their independence and objectivity.
head-office sites, and the acquisition of Classic Collection as to whether an independent Internal Audit Department would The Companys policy is that, except in exceptional be more appropriate and to set down the guidelines for the circumstances, non-audit fees to the audit firm should not operation of such a department, or alternatively, whether the exceed 70% of the amount of the audit fee for the current Group should operate a rolling programme of internal audit with financial year audit fee 0.2m.
In addition, all non-audit work the support of an external adviser.
in excess of 15,000 should be the subject of a competitive tender.
In line with its terms of reference, during the year, the Audit Committee has undertaken reviews on the Companys It should be noted that, in the current year FY18, it was processes, procedures and safeguards.
disclosed that fees totalling nil were paid to KPMG for nonaudit services.
External auditor The Committee oversees the Groups relationship with the UK Corporate Governance Code external auditor.
The Committee holds meetings with the Each year the Committee conducts a detailed review of the auditor without management present with the purpose Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance of understanding the auditors views on the control and Code.
The Committee was satisfied that it complied with all the governance environment and managements effectiveness provisions of the Code: Elaine ODonnell has and prior to her within it.
To fulfil its responsibilities in respect of the appointment, Lee Ginsberg had substantial recent and relevant independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, the financial experience, along with experience in the technology Committee reviewed: and or consumer sector and the other members of the The audit work plan for the Group: Committee have experience in both the travel and technology The detailed findings of the audit, including a discussion and or consumer sectors.
of any major issues that arose during the audit: The findings of the external auditor in respect of both the Whistleblowing financial statements for the six-month period ending 31 A whistleblowing policy has been adopted which includes March 2018 and for the year ended 30 September 2018. access to a whistleblowing telephone service run by an The Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure independent organisation, allowing employees to raise that the external auditor maintains its independence and concerns on an entirely confidential basis.
It has therefore reviewed, and is satisfied with, receives reports on the use of the service, any significant the independence of KPMG as the external auditor: and reports that have been received, the investigations carried out The audit fee and the extent of non-audit services provided and any actions arising as a result.
No whistleblowing reports were recevied during the year.
KPMG was appointed auditor to the Group in 2007.
The mandatory firm rotation MFR rules in the UK introduce requirements that all EU public interest entities PIEs must tender their audit contract at least every 10 years and change or rotate their auditor at least every 20 years.
Audit tenure is measured from the point at which the Group became a PIE, being 28 September 2015, the date on which the Group became listed.
As such, the Group will need to run a tender process by 2025.
However, due to the length of time that KPMG have been auditors to the Group 11 years, the Committee considers that it is in the best interests of the Group to undertake a tender of the external audit.
58 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
