STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the Nomination Committee I am pleased to introduce the report of the Nomination Succession planning - Board Committee for the year ended 30 September 2018.
In accordance with its Terms of Reference the Committee must ensure progressive refreshing of the Board, taking into Members of the Nomination Committee account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company Richard Segal until 28 September 2018, Chair until 3 and what balance of skills and expertise are needed on the September 2018 Board in the future.
At the Committee meeting in May 2018, Lee Ginsberg Chair from 3 September 2018 the Committee noted that the current Board had been in place David Kelly since the Company listed in September 2015 and therefore it Elaine ODonnell from 3 July 2018 was a natural point for directors to consider their future with the Board.
Composed of three independent Non-Executive Directors At least two meetings held per year Appointment of new Chairman - May 2018 Meetings are attended by the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Richard Segal expressed his intention to step down following Executive, Company Secretary and other relevant attendees an orderly succession management process.
In line with Code by invitation.
3.1, the Committee prepared a job specification including an assessment of the time commitment expected, Three meetings were held during the year: recognising the need for availability in the event of crises.
Meetings Percentage of attended Total meetings I was identified by the Committee as an obvious and suitable meetings held attended candidate to succeed Richard as Non-Executive Chair of the Richard Segal 3 3 100% Board.
David Kelly 3 3 100% Lee Ginsberg 3 3 100% The Committee concluded that I met the requirements of Elaine ODonnell N A N A the role specification, was independent for the purposes of the Code and could devote sufficient time to the role.
It was further noted that as Senior Independent Director, and having Role of the Committee served as a Director for three years, I was well qualified for the The Committee has primary responsibility for leading the role of Chair, so it was not necessary or desirable to undertake process for board appointments and making recommendations an external search.
to the Board, bearing in mind the need for diversity and a balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge The Committee therefore recommended the appointment of across the Board, taking care to ensure that appointees have Lee to the Board of the Company as Non-Executive Chair of enough time available to devote to the position.
Diversity is critical to the future success of the business and the Committee fully appreciates the benefit of a diverse Board in ensuring the broadest range of views, constructive debate and challenge and in good decision making.
Lee Ginsberg CHAIRMAN, NOMINATION COMMITTEE 55 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Report of the Nomination Committee Appointment of Senior Independent Director - May 2018 Diversity My appointment to Non-Executive Chair of the Board meant Diversity in all respects including in terms of socio-economic that there was a need to appoint a new Senior Independent background, race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, age, Director SID.
physical abilities, religious and political beliefs is critical to the future success of the business and the Committee fully The purpose of the SID, as set out in the Code, was to provide appreciates the benefit of a diverse Board in ensuring the a sounding board for the Chair and to serve as an intermediary broadest range of views, constructive debate and challenge and for the other Directors when necessary.
The SID would also be in good decision making.
available to shareholders if they had concerns which could not be addressed through the usual channels.
The Nomination Committee considered the diversity on the Board during the year, particularly the fact that following The Committee concluded that David Kelly, who had served as the retirement of Wendy Parry and the appointment of Paul Non-Executive Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee Meehan in 2017, the Board became all-male.
In addition to the for three years, had the appropriate skills to be able to discharge gender imbalance there is also an ethnicity imbalance and the the role of SID and therefore the Committee recommended this Committee considered diversity as a whole.
The Nomination Committee leads Board appointments and it Appointment of additional Non-Executive Director and was agreed that in relation to Board appointments, diversity Chair of Audit Committee - July 2018 and equality remained a key value for the Company, and that My appointment to Non-Executive Chair of the Board meant it was the utmost priority for the Committee to ensure that that there was a need to appoint a new Chair of Audit where there is a vacancy on the Board, selection is on the basis Committee and a new Non-Executive Director and the of merit against objective criteria to ensure the appointment Committee led the search for a new Director that had the skills of the best individual for each role.
It was agreed that the to fulfil this role.
The Committee engaged the services of PWC Board should not specifically look to recruit a Director purely LLP to assist with the search.
to address the current imbalance of gender and ethnicity.
However the Company will continue to monitor diversity both Appointments to the Board continue to be made on the basis on the Board and across the business to ensure diversity and of merit against objective criteria to ensure the appointment of equal opportunities.
the best candidate for the role.
However, given the importance of diversity, the Committee requested that the shortlist of Further Board changes - November 2018 candidates was as diverse as possible and that there be a fair I will step down as Chair of the Board and of the Nomination gender balance.
The strongest candidate for the role by far Committee at the end of November in order to focus on other was Elaine ODonnell, who was not only an excellent cultural time commitments, but I will continue to serve as Nonfit but also whose wealth of experience in finance and across Executive Director of the Company.
David Kelly will serve as a range of businesses including M&A expertise was clearly of Chair of the Board on an interim basis while the Nomination enormous benefit to the Group.
Committee oversees the search for a permanent Chair of the Board.
Succession planning Continuing the work undertaken in the 2017 financial year, Board evaluation & re-election of Directors the Committee reviewed the Groups succession planning The Committee reviewed the results of the Board evaluation arrangements for the Executive Directors, the executive team and Director appraisal process as described on page 53 and and the senior management team, including the employees has recommended to the Board, after evaluating the balance regarded as key for the ongoing success of the Group.
The of skills, knowledge, independence and experience of each Committee monitored the risks in the succession plan, and Director, that all Directors will seek re-election at the Companys recommended that certain actions took place to address any forthcoming AGM.
risk areas, including working with the Remuneration Committee to ensure that the remuneration for these individuals was at an I will be available at the AGM to discuss any questions that appropriate level and in an appropriate structure to incentivise shareholders have in relation to the work of the Committee.
and retain talent in the business.
Lee Ginsberg In particular, the Committee was involved in the succession Chair, Nomination Committee management processes for: 28 November 2018 Alistair Daly formerly Chief Marketing Officer, who was succeeded by Alan Harding, who stepped up into a Marketing Director role in April 2018: and Jonathan Smith formerly Chief Technology Officer, who was succeeded by Stefan Nordin as the new CTO in October 2018.
56 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
