Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholder, The Committee retains oversight of the strategic risk-based I am pleased to present the report of the Risk Committee.
initiatives, including Internal Ratings-Based IRB, operational resilience and data enhancement programme.
The Risk Committee met seven times in 2018.
The members of this Committee are myself Graham Allat, Eric Anstee, Margaret Further information on the role and activities of the Committee Hassall, Mary McNamara and April Talintyre.
Only members of the is provided in the following Report.
Committee are entitled to attend meetings however, the Chief Risk Officer CRO, Chief Executive Officer CEO and Group Chief Graham Allatt Credit Officer CCO have standing invitations to the Committee, Chair of Risk Committee unless the Chairman of the Committee informs any of them that 14 March 2019 they should not attend a particular meeting or discussion.
The Committee actively challenged the Groups performance against the Board approved risk appetite, ensuring appropriate Responsibilities and timely consideration was given to business, economic and The primary objective of the Committee is to support the Board in regulatory factors impacting the Groups risk profile.
The discharging its risk oversight and governance responsibilities.
In Committee maintained oversight of the Groups risk management particular, the Committee enables the Board to: framework to ensure that it remained fit for purpose to support Set a clear tone from the top in relation to a risk-based culture the Groups strategic growth objectives.
which fosters individual and collective accountability for risk management.
The Committee assessed and recommended for approval by the Continuously review, challenge and recommend Board key regulatory submissions including the Internal Capital enhancements to the Groups risk management framework.
Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, the Group Recovery Plan Ensure adequacy of how the Group organises and resources its and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP.
risk management and oversight functions across first and In discharging this responsibility, the Committee focused on risk second line functions.
quantification techniques, underlying assumptions and the Actively assess performance against risk appetite and resulting risk assessment.
challenge management to ensure that the Boards strategic, business and regulatory objectives are not put at unacceptable levels of risk.
The Committees specific responsibilities are set out in its terms ofreference, which are available on the Companys website atwww.
88 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk Committee Report continued Activity during 2018 Market risk and liquidity risk In 2018, the Group continued to enhance and further integrate its Market risk and liquidity risk are continually monitored by the Strategic Risk Management Framework SRMF, which represents Assets and Liabilities Committee ALCO which reports to the the overarching framework established to manage its risk profile in Committee.
The Committee reviewed ALCOs regular assessments line with the Board strategy and risk appetite.
The detailed overview of the UK macroeconomic environment and potential impacts on of the SRMF is provided in the Groups Pillar 3 Disclosures.
The key the Groups assets and liquidity.
areas of the Committees focus during 2018 are outlined below.
The Committee undertook an extensive assessment of the Risk appetite ILAAPprior to submission to the Board for approval.
Key areas The Committee played an active role is shaping and assessing the ofCommittee focus was in relation to scenarios, funding design of the Groups risk appetite in the context of economic and assumptions under stress and calibration of liquidity and funding business outlook and uncertainties, the strategic growth agenda risk appetites.
of the Group and regulatory developments.
The Committee members held a focused risk appetite workshop in which risk Solvency risk and ICAAP appetite statements, risk metrics and guiding limits and triggers The Committee was involved with the design and approval of were discussed and challenged prior to recommendation to the appropriate macroeconomic scenarios to be used in the Groups Board for approval.
The Committee sought independent business ICAAP.
The ICAAP demonstrates how the Group would manage and economic insights to inform and validate the risk appetite.
itsbusiness and capital during adverse macroeconomic and The Committee also ensured that the proposed risk appetite was idiosyncratic stresses.
The Committee assessed the results of all subject to appropriate alignment to the Groups strategic agenda, the risk-based capital assessments and stress testing results business plans and stress testing capabilities.
before finally recommending the full ICAAP document to the Board for approval.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups position against risk appetite across all principal risks and escalated issues to the Board The Committee also reviewed and challenged the Group Capital where appropriate.
Plan and monitored total capital and CET1 forecasts throughout the year ensuring risks were understood and managed appropriately.
Credit risk The Committee has monitored the performance of the Group loan Operational risk book on aggregated and asset class sub-segment levels by The Committee received reports on operational risks at each of assessing the key indicators of credit quality, security coverage, its meetings.
The reports covered risk incidents that had arisen affordability and borrower risk profile.
The Committee also to allow the Committee to assess managements response and assessed forward-looking credit risk indicators in the form of remedial action proposed.
The reports also covered key risk bureau data on customer credit scores, mover alerts and indicators KRI, which can be quantitative or qualitative and indebtedness, business and economic early warning indicators.
provided insights regarding changes in the Groups operational risk profile.
The Committee challenged and approved updates to policies including the Group Lending Policy, the Arrears, Repossessions and Although there were operational incidents during the course of Forbearance Policies and the Loan Impairment Provisioning Policy.
2018, the Committee requested a detailed analysis of incidents to The Committee also exercised oversight over credit risk models further understand any causes and trends.
The Committee was and provided an appropriate level of challenge in relation to satisfied that actions taken were appropriate and that the control model construction and validation to ensure that the models are of operational incidents continued to improve.
The Committee has also directed management on how to monitor model performance.
The Committee reviewed and commented on the Group-wide risk and control self-assessment exercise and an enhanced During 2018, the Committee oversaw and was involved in the Operational Risk Management Framework.
Group making further developments to model governance, particularly in light of the IRB programme.
The Committee Compliance and regulatory risk reviewed and approved methodologies underpinning impairment The Committee received reports covering compliance and calculations on collectively assessed accounts under IAS 39 and financial crime KRIs, which can be quantitative or qualitative and also reviewed and approved key judgement and estimate provide insights regarding changes in the Groups compliance and assumptions which feed IFRS 9 expected credit loss calculations.
The Committee reviewed the Compliance The Committee also assessed and approved the Groups provision and Financial Crime Target Operating Model.
The Committee also adequacy levels throughout the year.
assessed and recommended enhancements to the compliance and financial crime risk appetite before recommending it for approval by the Board.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Other risk types The Committee reviewed the Group profiles of conduct risk, reputational risk and business and strategic risk against their respective risk appetites.
Recovery Plan The recovery plan process is designed to ensure that in a time ofstress the Group has a credible recovery plan that can be implemented in a timely manner.
The Committee reviewed andcommented on the proposed set of recovery options within its plan.
Risk Committee key responsibilities Risk appetite and assessment Advise the Board on overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy Review risk assessment processes that inform the Boards decision-making Consider the Groups capability to identify and manage new risks Advise the Board on proposed strategic transactions, including acquisitions or disposals, ensuring risk aspects and implications for risk appetite and tolerance are considered Risk monitoring and framework Review credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, market risk, compliance and regulatory risks, solvency risk, conduct risk, reputational risk and operational risk exposures by reference to risk appetite Challenge and endorse the Strategic Risk Management Framework Provide challenge and oversight to the ICAAP framework Monitor actual and forecast risk and regulatory capital positions Recommend changes to capital utilisation Provide challenge and oversight to the ILAAP framework Monitor the actual and forecast liquidity position Review reports on risk appetite thresholds, identify where a risk of a material breach of risk limits exists and ensure proposed actions are adequate Provide challenge and oversight to the Recovery Plan framework CRO and risk governance structure Consider and approve the remit of the risk management function Recommend to the Board the appointment and removal of the CRO Review promptly all reports of the CRO Review and monitor managements responsiveness to the findings of the CRO Receive reports from the Assets and Liabilities and Risk Management Committees
