72 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Report The statement of corporate governance practices, including the Reports of Committees, set out on pages 72 to 108 and information incorporated by reference, constitutes the Corporate Governance Report of OneSavings Bank.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Dear Shareholder, Compliance Statement I am pleased to present to you the Companys Corporate Governance Report for 2018, and to report our full compliance During 2018, the Company applied all of the throughout the year with the Code as updated in 2016. main principles of the 2016 Code and has I am pleased to report that the Board continues to be committed complied with all Code provisions.
The Code to the highest standards of corporate governance and considers isavailable atwww.
that good corporate governance is essential to provide the Executive team with the environment and culture in which to drive the success of the business.
The Board and its Committees have undertaken a formal performance review exercise during 2018, details of which are set out in the Report below.
The review highlighted that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively.
An externally facilitated Board evaluation willbe undertaken during 2019.
Andrew Doman left the Board during 2018.
I would like to thank him for his contribution towards the success of the Bank and Iwish him well in all his future ventures.
I would also like to welcome Sarah Hedger who joined the Board on 1 February 2019.
The Investor Relations function continues to assist the Board in developing a programme of meetings and presentations to both institutional and private shareholders, details of which are also set out in the Report.
We welcome shareholders to attend the AGM, which will be held at the offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, 60 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4AG on 9 May 2019 at 11am.
David Weymouth Non-Executive Chairman 14 March 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 The role and structure of the Board Corporate governance The Board of Directors the Board is responsible for the longReview of the Groups overall governance structure term success of the Company and provides leadership to the Determining the independence of Directors Group.
The Board focuses on setting strategy, monitoring performance and ensures that the necessary financial and Board members humanresources are in place to enable the Company to meet Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board itsobjectives.
In addition, it ensures appropriate financial Appointment or removal of the Chairman, CEO, SID and andbusiness systems and controls are in place to safeguard Company Secretary shareholders interests and to maintain effective corporate governance.
Other The making of political donations The Board is also responsible for setting the tone from the top in Approval of the overall levels of insurance for the Group relation to conduct, culture and values, for ensuring continuing commitment to treating customers fairly, carrying out business Accountability honestly and openly and preventing bribery, corruption, fraud or In line with the Code provisions, the Board ensures that a fair, the facilitation of tax evasion.
balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects is presented in all financial and business reporting.
The Board operates in accordance with the Companys Articles of The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent Association the Articles and its own written terms of reference.
ofthe principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic The Board has established a number of Committees as indicated objectives and maintains sound risk management and internal in the chart on page 39.
Each Committee has its own terms of control systems.
The Board has established formal and reference which are reviewed at least annually.
Details of each transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply Committees activities during 2018 are shown in the Nomination thecorporate reporting, risk management and internal control and Governance, Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committee reports principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with on pages 80 to 105. theGroups auditors.
The Board retains specific powers in relation to the approval of Financial and business reporting theBanks strategic aims, policies and other matters, which must The Board is committed to ensuring that all external financial be approved by it under legislation or the Articles.
These powers reporting presents a fair, balanced and understandable are set out in the Boards written terms of reference and Matters assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
To achieve Reserved to the Board which are reviewed at least annually.
this, the Board reviews each report and considers the level of Asummary of the matters reserved for decision by the Board consistency throughout: whether there is a balanced review of the isset out below: competitive landscape: the use of sufficiently simple language: the analysis of risks facing the business: and that there is equal Strategy and management prominence given to statutory and underlying profit.
The Board Overall strategy of the Group has established an Audit Committee to assist in making its Approval of long-term objectives assessment.
The activities of the Audit Committee are set out Approval of annual operating and capital expenditure onpages 82 to 86. budgets Review of performance against strategy and objectives Risk management and internal control The Board retains ultimate responsibility for setting the Groups Structure and capital risk appetite and ensuring that there is an effective risk Changes to the Groups capital or corporate structure management framework to maintain levels of risk within the Changes to the Groups management and control structure riskappetite.
The Board regularly reviews its procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing risk, acknowledging Risk management thatasound system of internal control should be designed Overall risk appetite of the Group tomanage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Approval of the strategic risk management framework business objectives.
Financial reporting and controls The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal Approval of financial statements risks facing the business, including those that would threaten its Approval of dividend policy business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Further Approval of significant changes in accounting policies details are contained in the viability statement on page 51.
Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management The Board has established a Risk Committee to which it has delegated authority for oversight of the Groups risk appetite, Remuneration riskmonitoring and capital management.
The Risk Committee Determining the remuneration of the Non-Executive provides oversight and advice to the Board on current risk Directors exposures and future risk strategy and assists the Board in Introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes fostering a culture within the Group, which emphasises and to existing plans demonstrates the benefits of a risk-based approach to internal control and management.
74 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Report continued Further details of the Groups risk management approach, The Board is committed to the consistent application of structure and principal risks are set out in the Risk review on pages appropriate ethical standards, and the Conduct Risk Policy 36 to 49.
The Board has delegated authority to the Audit setsout the basic principles to be followed to ensure ethical Committee for reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys considerations are embedded in all business processes and internal control systems.
The Audit Committee is supported by the decision-making forums.
The Group also maintains detailed Internal Audit function in discharging this responsibility, and policies and procedures in relation to the prevention of bribery receives regular reports from the Chief Internal Auditor as to the andcorruption, and a Whistleblowing Policy.
overall effectiveness of the control system within the Group.
Details of the review of the effectiveness of the Companys Directors internal control systems are set out in the Audit Committee report The Directors who served during the year are listed in the table on page 84. below.
Andrew Doman ceased to be a Director 10 May 2018.
The Board currently consists of nine Directors: the Chairman, two Control environment Executive Directors and six independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Group is organised along the three lines of defence model to The biographies of the Directors can be found on pages 68 to 69. ensure at least three stages of independent oversight to protect the customer and the Group from undue influence, conflict of Board meetings and attendance interest and poor controls.
The Board met nine times during the year.
The Board has a formalmeeting schedule with ad hoc meetings called as and The first line of defence is provided by the operational business when circumstances require.
This includes an annual calendar lines which measure, assess and control risks through the ofagenda items to ensure that all matters are given due day-to-day activities of the business within the frameworks set by consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the the second line of defence.
The second line of defence is provided regulatory and financial cycle.
The Board has established a by the risk, compliance and governance functions which include number of Committees as shown in the table below.
The table the Board and Executive Committee.
As noted above, the Board also shows each Directors attendance at the Board and sets the Companys risk appetite and is ultimately responsible for Committee meetings they were eligible to attend in 2018. ensuring an effective risk management framework is in place.
TheCompliance function maintains the key controls framework which tracks and reports on key controls within the business to ensure compliance with the main provisions of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA handbooks.
Policy documents also include key controls that map back to the key controls framework.
The third line of defence is the Internal Audit function.
Nomination and Audit Remuneration Governance Risk Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 David Weymouth Chairman 9 9 n a 4 4 5 5 n a Graham Allatt 9 9 5 5 n a n a 6 7 Eric Anstee 9 9 5 5 n a n a 7 7 2 Andrew Doman 4 4 1 1 2 2 n a 2 3 Rod Duke 9 9 n a 6 6 5 5 n a Andy Golding 9 9 n a n a n a n a Margaret Hassall 9 9 5 5 n a n a 7 7 Mary McNamara 8 9 n a 6 6 5 5 7 7 April Talintyre 9 9 n a n a n a 6 7 1.
Appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2018.
Retired from the Board on 10 May 2018.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 All Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board Role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer andany Committees of which they are members, and to devote The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO are held sufficient time to the Companys affairs to fulfil their duties as by different people.
There is a clear division of responsibilities, Directors.
Where Directors are unable to attend a meeting, which has been agreed by the Board and is formalised in a theyare encouraged to submit any comments on the meeting schedule of responsibilities for each.
materials in advance to the Chair, to ensure that their views are recorded and taken into account during the meeting.
As Chairman, David Weymouth is responsible for setting the tone at the top and ensuring that the Board has the right mix of skills, Key Board activities during the year included: experience and development so that it can focus on the key issues Strategy the Board convened a strategy away day in affecting the business and for leading the Board and ensuring it October 2018 acts effectively.
Our CEO, Andy Golding, has overall responsibility Risk monitoring and review for managing the Group and implementing the strategies and Governance and compliance policies agreed by the Board.
A summary of the key areas of External affairs and competitor analysis responsibility of the Chairman and CEO, and how these have been Talent review succession planning discharged during the year, are set out below and overleaf.
Annual, interim and quarterly reporting Customer brand product review Policy review and update Investment proposals Mission, Vision and Values Chairmans responsibilities Activities carried out in 2018 Chairing the Board and general meetings The Chairman chaired all of the Board meetings held in 2018 and the of the Company.
Setting the Board agenda and ensuring that The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary, set the annual adequate time is available for discussion calendar of Board business and the agendas for the individual meetings.
Time is allocated for each item of business at meetings.
Promoting the highest standards of integrity, The Board received regular updates from its Committees on changes in probity and corporate governance throughout corporate governance and its application to the Company.
Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary and the CEO, agreed and clear information in advance of meetings.
the information to be distributed to the Board in advance of each meeting.
Promoting a culture of openness and debate The Chairman ran the meetings in an open and constructive way, by facilitating the effective contribution of all encouraging contribution from all Directors.
He regularly met with the Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors without management present so that any concerns could be expressed.
Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the CEO in particular.
Regularly considering succession planning and the The Board received regular updates from the Nomination and Governance composition of the Board.
Details of the Committees activities are explained in the Nomination and Governance Committee report on pages 80 and 81.
Ensuring training and development needs of all The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary, has reviewed Directors Directors are met, and that all new Directors training requirements.
Details of induction and training held during the year receive a full induction.
Ensuring effective communication with The Chairman, along with the Board, and assisted by the Chief Executive shareholders and stakeholders.
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Investor Relations team, agreed a programme of investor relations meetings.
Details of meetings carried out during the year are shown on page78.
76 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Report continued Chief Executive Officers responsibilities Senior Independent Director Andy Goldings responsibilities as CEO are to ensure that the Rod Duke is the Senior Independent Director SID.
His role is to Company operates effectively at strategic, operational and act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to support him in administrative levels.
He is responsible for all the Groups activities: the delivery of his objectives.
This includes ensuring that the he provides leadership and direction to encourage others to viewsof all other Directors are communicated to, and given due effect strategies agreed by the Board: channels expertise, energy consideration by, the Chairman.
In addition, the SID is responsible and enthusiasm: builds individuals capabilities within the team: for leading the annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
develops and encourages talent within the business: identifies commercial and business opportunities for the Group, building The SID is also available to shareholders should they wish to strengths in key areas: and is responsible for all commercial discuss concerns about the Company other than through the activities of the Group, liaising with regulatory authorities where Chairman and CEO.
He is responsible for the quality and financial wellbeing of the Group, represents the Group to external Company Secretary organisations and builds awareness of the Group externally.
The Company Secretary, Jason Elphick, plays a key role within the Company, advising on good governance and assisting the An experienced Executive team, comprising specialists in finance, Board to discharge its responsibilities, acting with integrity banking, risk, legal, and IT matters assist the CEO in carrying out and independence to protect the interests of the Company, his responsibilities.
The biographies for the Executive team are set its shareholders and employees.
Jason advises the Company out on page 70. to ensure that it complies with all statutory and regulatory requirements and he works closely with the Chairman, CEO and Executive Committee Chairs of the Committees of the Board so that Board procedures The CEO chairs the Executive Committee ExCo, whose members including setting agendas and the timely distribution of papers also include the Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief Operating are complied with, and that there is a good communication flow Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Group General Counsel and Company between the Board, its Committees, senior management and Secretary, Group Commercial Director, Chief Information Officer, Non-Executive Directors.
Jason also provides the Directors with Group Chief Credit Officer and the Chief Internal Auditor.
The ExCo advice and support, including facilitating induction programmes is supported by a number of Management Committees.
and training in conjunction with the Chairman.
The purpose of the ExCo is to assist the CEO in the performance of Effectiveness his duties, including: Balance and independence The development and implementation of the strategic plan as The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in discharging approved by the Board.
their duties is essential for the success of the Company.
In order The development, implementation and oversight of a strong tooperate effectively, the Board and its Committees comprise a operating model that supports the strategic plan.
balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to The development and implementation of systems and controls encourage constructive debate and challenge to the decisionto support the strategic plan.
To review and oversee operational and financial performance.
To prioritise and allocate the Groups resources in accordance The Board comprises seven Non-Executive Directors including the with the strategic plan.
Chairman and two Executive Directors.
All of the Non-Executive To oversee the development of a high performing senior Directors including the Chairman have been determined by the management team.
Board to be independent in character and judgement and free To oversee the customer proposition and experience to ensure from relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could consistency with the Groups obligation to treat customers appear to affect, the relevant individuals judgement.
independence of the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed To oversee the appropriate protection and control of private continuously, including formal annual review.
The size and composition of the Board is kept under review by the The ExCos activities during the year included: Nomination and Governance Committee and the Board to ensure Business review an appropriate balance of skills and experience is represented.
The Capital and funding Board is satisfied that its current composition allows it to operate Human resources and succession planning effectively and that all Directors are able to bring specific insights Governance, control and risk environment current and and make valuable contributions to the Board due to their varied forward-looking commercial backgrounds.
The Non-Executive Directors provide System transformation constructive challenge to the Executives, and the Chairman Monitoring target operating model progress ensures that the views of all Directors are taken into consideration Mission, Vision and Values.
The Directors biographies can be found on pages 68 and 69.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment Directors indemnities Non-Executive Directors are appointed for terms of three years, The Articles provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The initial term anindemnity for Directors and Officers of the Group in respect may be renewed up to a maximum of three terms nine years.
of liabilities they may incur in the discharge of their duties or in The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors specify the exercise of their powers, including any liabilities relating to the amount of time they are expected to devote to the business, the defence of any proceedings brought against them which which is a minimum of two and half days per month, calculated relate toanything done or omitted, or alleged to have been based on the time required to prepare for and attend Board and done or omitted, by them as Officers or employees of the Group.
Committee meetings, the AGM, meetings with shareholders Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in place in andtraining.
Their commitment also extends to working such respect of all Directors.
additional hours as may be required in exceptional circumstances.
Directors powers Non-Executive Directors are required to confirm annually that As set out in the Articles, the business of the Company is managed they continue to have sufficient time to devote to the role.
by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
In particular, save as otherwise provided in company law or in Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors the Articles, the Directors may allot with or without conferring a The Board may appoint a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as right of renunciation, grant options over, offer, or otherwise deal anaddition to the existing Board.
The new Director must then with or dispose of shares in the Company to such persons at such retire at the next AGM and is put forward for election by the times and generally on such terms and conditions as they may shareholders.
All other Directors are put forward for re-election determine.
The Directors may at any time after the allotment of annually.
In addition to any power of removal conferred by any share but before any person has been entered in the Register theCompanies Act, any Director may be removed by special as the holder, recognise a renunciation thereof by the allottee in resolution, before the expiration of his or her period of office favour of some other person and may accord to any allottee of a and, subject to the Articles, another person who is willing to act share a right to effect such renunciation upon and subject to such as a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution in his or terms and conditions as the Directors may think fit to impose.
Subject to the provisions of company law, the Company may purchase any of its own shares including any redeemable shares.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles set out the policy for dealing with Training and development Directors conflicts of interest and are in line with the Companies The Chairman ensures that all Directors receive a tailored Act 2006.
The Articles permit the Board to authorise conflicts and induction on joining the Board, with the aim of providing a potential conflicts, as long as the potentially conflicted Director is new Director with the information required to allow him or her not counted in the quorum and does not vote on the resolution to to contribute to the running of the Group as soon as possible.
Theinduction programme is facilitated and monitored by the Company Secretary to ensure that all information provided is Directors are required to complete an annual confirmation fully understood by the new Director and that any queries are including a fitness and propriety questionnaire, which requires dealt with.
Typically, the induction programme will include a declarations of external interests and potential conflicts.
In combination of key documents and face-to-face sessions covering addition, all Directors are required to declare their interests in the governance, regulatory and other arrangements of the Group.
thebusiness to be discussed at each Board meeting.
The interests of new Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process As senior managers, under the Senior Managers Regime andauthorised, if appropriate, by the Board at the time of their operated by the PRA and FCA, all Directors have had to maintain appointment.
The Nomination and Governance Committee also the skills, knowledge and expertise required to meet the annually reviews conflicts of interest relating to Directors.
demands of their positions of significant influence within the Bank.
As part of the annual fitness and propriety assessment, The Group has also adopted a Conflicts of Interest Policy, which Directors are required to complete a self-certification that includes a procedure for identifying potential conflicts of interest they have undertaken sufficient training during the year to within the Group.
maintain their skills, knowledge and expertise and to make declarations as to their fitness and propriety.
The Company No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance Secretary supports the Directors to identify relevant internal in relation to the Groups business at any time during the year or and external courses to ensure Directors are kept up-to-date at the date of this report.
with key regulatory changes, their responsibilities as senior managers and other matters impacting on the business.
78 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Report continued Information and support Whistleblowing The Company Secretary and the Chairman agree an annual The Group has established procedures by which employees may, calendar of matters to be discussed at each Board meeting to in confidence, raise concerns relating to possible improprieties ensure that all key Board responsibilities are discharged over the inmatters of financial reporting, financial control or any other year.
Board agendas are then distributed with accompanying matter.
The Whistleblowing Policy applies to all employees of detailed papers to the Board in advance of each Board and the Group and are benchmarked against industry standards.
These include reports from Executive The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring theGroups Directors and other members of senior management.
All Directors whistleblowing arrangements and the policy.
Where concerns have direct access to senior management should they require have been raised, a detailed report is provided on the additional information on any of the items to be discussed.
The investigation, actions taken, lessons learnt and changes Board and Audit Committee also receive further regular and made as a result.
The Chair of the Audit Committee has specific reports to allow the monitoring of the adequacy of the overall responsibility for whistleblowing arrangements Groups systems and controls.
with oversight from the Board.
The information supplied to the Board and its Committees is kept The Group is confident that the arrangements are effective, under review and formally assessed on an annual basis as part of facilitate the proportionate and independent investigation the Board evaluation exercise to ensure it is fit for purpose and of reported matters, and allow appropriate follow-up action that it enables sound decision-making.
There is a formal procedure through which Directors may obtain Relations with shareholders independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
The Dialogue with shareholders Directors also have access to the services of the Company The Company has a dedicated Investor Relations function to liaise Secretary as described on page 76. with institutional investors and analysts.
Updates on investor relations activity and changes to the share register are regular Board evaluation items on the Board agenda.
The Board undertakes an evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors annually with an An ongoing dialogue with the key stakeholders continued external review every third year.
The last externally facilitated throughout the year on topics relating to the performance of the review was conducted in 2016.
In 2018, the internal review Group, including strategy and new developments.
In 2018, the concluded that the Board, including its Committees, discharged Company engaged in active discussion with shareholders and its duties effectively: and that the current Directors have an investors, both on an individual basis and through attendance at appropriate range of knowledge and experience giving rise to investor conferences and events.
Following full year and interim open and effective challenge, scrutiny and debate: and the results presentations, senior management undertake results structure of the governance arrangements works well.
The roadshows and meet with larger investors.
The Investor Relations relationship between the Board and senior management is open team and management held a total of 130 meetings with and transparent and is reflected in Board discussions.
The Board individual existing and potential investors during 2018. was satisfied that no individual or group of Directors dominated the discussions or had undue influence in the decision-making A comprehensive plan of Investor Relations activity is in place for process.
The review indicated that enhancements could be made the coming year.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and to the induction and succession planning process which are being other Non-Executive Directors are available to discuss any matter addressed.
An externally facilitated Board evaluation will be stakeholders might wish to raise and to attend meetings with undertaken during 2019. investors and analysts.
In addition, shareholders are able to contact the Company through the Investor Relations function or Treasury operations the Company Secretariat.
There are policies in place setting out the Groups approach to themanagement of risks from treasury operations.
Day-to-day responsibility for management of the Groups treasury function is delegated to the Assets and Liabilities Committee ALCO which reports to the Risk Committee.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at the offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, 60Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4AG on 9 May 2019 at 11am.
The Chairs of each of the Committees of the Board will be present to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
Due to unforeseen circumstances, the Chair of the Audit Committee was unable to attend the 2018 AGM.
The Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate in the AGM process, and all resolutions will be proposed and voted on at the meeting on an individual basis by shareholders or their proxies.
Voting results will be announced and made available on the Companys website, www.
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting other than an AGM as provided by the Companies Act 2006.
Requests to call a general meeting may be made by members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of the Company ascarries the right of voting at general meetings of the Company excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares.
A request must state the general nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting.
Arequest may be in hard copy form or in electronic form and must be authenticated by the person or persons making it.
A request may be made in writing to the Company Secretary to the registered office or by sending an email to company.
Atany general meeting convened on such request, no business shallbe transacted, except that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board.
