80 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Nomination and Governance Committee Report Dear Shareholder, Responsibilities I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination and The specific responsibilities and duties of the Committee are set Governance Committee.
out in its terms of reference which are available on our website, www.
Membership and meetings The Committee met five times during 2018.
Composition of the Board and its Committees The Committee conducted a review of the composition of The members of this Committee are David Weymouth, Chairman theAudit, Remuneration and Risk Committees and its own of the Board, myself Rod Duke and Mary McNamara.
composition during 2018, carefully considering the skills of theexisting members and looking at any skills gaps applicable We considered a number of items during 2018, with the main toeach Committee.
During the year, David Weymouth was focus being on recruiting a Non-Executive Director with the appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
appropriate skills to the Board.
The Committee appointed Per 1 Ardua to assist with the recruitment process.
We examined the In addition, the Committee discussed and considered the size of revised UK Corporate Governance Code against our practices to the Board and its range of skills.
It was determined that the Board ensure that we are compliant at the earliest opportunity.
We also would benefit from an additional Non-Executive Director and a job reviewed the Banks progress in achieving the commitments set specification was drafted based on an audit of skills the Board out in the Women in Finance Charter and various diversity currently possessed and those that would add even more value.
The brief to Per Ardua was to include an equal number of male and female candidates.
From the list presented to the Committee, Further details on areas considered by the Committee are three candidates were interviewed and the preferred candidate provided below.
was chosen and recommended to the Board for appointment.
Asa result, the Board appointed Sarah Hedger to join the Board with effect from 1 February 2019.
Rod Duke Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee and Succession planning Senior Independent Director The Committee considered both Board and Executive level 14 March 2019 succession planning during 2018, including ways in which skills could be developed.
As a result Executives are regularly invited 1.
Per Ardua has no other connection with the Company.
toattend Board and Committee meetings.
The Committee also received updates on the performance of the wider employee population, particularly the 2018 Primary Talent Group.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Diversity 2020.
Currently 28% of senior management and 44% of our Board Our Bank recognises and embraces the benefits of having a are female, placing us in the top 10 of the FTSE 250 for gender diverse Board and workforce, and sees diversity at Board level as diversity.
Our Bank has also appointed a Diversity Champion to an essential element in maintaining a competitive advantage.
We promote a series of diversity initiatives such as our commitment believe that a truly diverse Board and workforce will include and to those with a disability, mental health in the workplace and make good use of differences in the skills, regional and industry unconscious bias training.
The Group achieved Disability Confident experience, age, background, race, gender and other distinctions Employer Level 2 status during 2018. between people.
The Board recognises for itself that diversity is the key to better decision-making and avoiding group think.
Further details relating to diversity and inclusion are set out on page 58.
These differences are considered in determining the optimum composition of the Board and, where possible, will be balanced Governance appropriately.
All Board appointments are made on merit, in the The Committee reviewed changes in the regulatory landscape, context of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge particularly, the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
which the Board as a whole requires to be effective.
Activities during 2018 The Committee regularly reviews diversity initiatives including its In last years report the Committee identified nine key priorities.
annual review of the Equality and Diversity Policy.
The Board remains committed to the Women in Finance Charter and has A summary of actions taken and outcomes are set out in the introduced measurable objectives with our aim continuing to be table below.
that 30% of senior management positions within the Groups UK population will be undertaken by female employees by the end of Objective Action taken Continue to focus on fulfilling our commitment A mandatory requirement was introduced that, for senior roles, at least one to the Women in Finance Charter credible female candidate must be interviewed face to face.
Oversee the development and implementation of our The Committee reviewed the action plan for Gender Pay Gap Reporting.
action plan for Gender Pay Gap Reporting Oversee a revised approach to cultural engagement The Mission, Vision and Values was launched at an all-employee within the Group three-day event during September 2018.
Corporate governance reform The Committee receives regular updates on corporate governance changes in the industry, including the steps being taken by the Bank to ensure compliance with any relevant changes.
Corporate purpose and sustainability The Committee reviewed the Environmental Policy and the actions being taken to enable the Bank to continue to operate sustainably.
Board and Committee succession planning The Committee reviewed the skills and mix of the Board and as a result a new Non-Executive Director has been appointed.
The membership of Committees is periodically reviewed to ensure continuity.
Embedding diversity initiatives The Bank has raised awareness of the various initiatives, which have been put in place to support diversity.
Such initiatives relate to disabled facilities, mental health awareness workshops, the introduction of a Womens Networking Forum and unconscious bias training.
Regular updates are provided to the Committee on the progress of diversity initiatives.
Board and Committee effectiveness The Board and its Committees completed an internal effectiveness evaluation during the last quarter of 2018 with very positive results overall.
An external evaluation of the Board and its Committees will be undertaken during 2019.
Oversee development of the talent pipeline Members of the Committee met with the 2018 Primary Talent Group PTG to understand the level of support provided to them and what other support would be beneficial.
The Committee also received periodic reports of the activities undertaken by the PTG.
Priorities for 2019 The Committees priorities for 2019 are: Consider the approach to Board and Executive succession planning, and the extent to which that planning incorporates a range of diversity criteria beyond gender diversity.
Consider further training and development needs for Committee members.
Provide oversight of how the Mission, Vision and Values are being embedded.
Embedding of diversity initiatives and reduction of the gender pay gap.
External Board and Committee effectiveness review.
Oversee progress with the Groups purpose and sustainability.
Oversee the development of the talent pipeline.
