82 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, Margaret Hassall joined the Committee at the beginning of the I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for year and Andrew Doman left in May 2018.
During the year, the Committee continued to focus on areas of significant judgement in the financial statements as set out in The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
TheChief Internal Auditor and the external auditor attended all meetings and also meet in private with the Committee: they also The Committee also completed a competitive tender process for have regular contact with the Chair throughout the year.
I discuss the external audit of the Group from 2019, resulting in Deloitte LLP and agree the agenda with the Chief Financial Officer and Chief being selected as external auditor for the year ended Internal Auditor in advance of each meeting and receive a full 31 December 2019. briefing on the key agenda items.
Membership and meetings Further details on the activities of the Committee during the The Committee met five times in 2018.
The members of the yearand how it discharged its responsibilities are provided in Committee, namely Graham Allatt, myself and Margaret Hassall thereport below.
As Chair ofthe Committee, I, Eric Anstee, have a wealth of recent and relevant I would like to thank our outgoing auditor, KPMG LLP, for their financial and accounting experience in financial services and, service over the years and welcome our incoming external taken as a whole, the Committee has an appropriate balance of auditor, Deloitte LLP.
skills, including recent and relevant financial experience.
Inaddition to members, standing invitations are extended to theExecutive Directors, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Internal Auditor Eric Anstee and Group Head of Compliance and Conduct Risk, all of whom Chair of the Audit Committee attend meetings as a matter of practice.
Other non-members 14 March 2019 may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting as and whenappropriate.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Responsibilities During the year, management implemented an enhanced The primary role of the Committee is to assist the Board in probability of default model, which replaced one of four PD overseeing the systems of internal control and external models utilised by the Group, enhanced the definition of default financialreporting across the Group.
The Committees specific criteria to more closely align with industry and regulatory best responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which are practice and adjusted the Groups stage 3 cure criteria, whilst reviewed at least annually.
These are available on the Companys enhancing the significant increase in credit risk criteria.
co. uk, and cover external and internal audit, Committee reviewed and challenged the appropriateness of financial and narrative reporting, compliance, whistleblowing, thesechanges prior to implementation.
Throughout the year, the Committee reviewed proposed updates In addition, the Chair of the Audit Committee is available to meet to the macroeconomic scenarios utilised within ECL calculations.
with the Companys investors on request, in accordance with the In particular, the Committee debated managements proposals Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code.
toinclude an additional no-deal disorderly Brexit macroeconomic scenario, to support the existing upside, base and other downside Activities during 2018 scenarios, and changes to the probability weightings attached to The principal activities undertaken by the Committee during the each scenario.
The Committee reviewed additional information by loan book Significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee during the year including provision coverage ratios, assumed The following significant accounting judgements were considered probability of default, loss given default and loan to value ratios by the Committee in relation to the 2018 Annual Report and for loans three months or more in arrears: and impaired balances financial statements.
In its assessment, the Committee to help with its assessment of the reasonableness of provisions.
considered and challenged reports from management prior to The Committee asked the Risk Committee to review and provide both the interim and full year results, explaining each area of advice on the collective provision methodologies and assumptions judgement and managements recommended approach.
The and to review the top 20 impaired loans for the half year and Committee also received reports from the external auditor setting year end.
At least three members of the Committee were also out its views on the accounting treatment and judgements members of the Risk Committee throughout 2018 and as such underpinning the financial statements.
received additional detailed credit information on the loan book throughout the year.
Loan book Expected Credit Losses The Group conducts individual impairment assessments for high The Committee is satisfied that the approach taken and value loans 0.5m which are more than three months in arrears, judgements made were reasonable.
The Committee also received estimating future cash flows, including the cost of obtaining and regular reports from management on the Groups compliance selling collateral, likely sale proceeds and any rental income prior with IFRS 9: Financial Instruments, which became effective to sale.
The reports covered the classification and measurement of financial instruments and the determination of All assets without an individual impairment assessment are impairment provisions and a hedging update.
The key focus was assessed under a modelled expected credit loss ECL approach, on IFRS 9 models, interpretation of results, key assumptions and which are unbiased and probability weighted using a number of judgements, scenario and macroeconomic variables used within macroeconomic scenarios.
ECL is measured on either a 12 month models, the results of the 2018 parallel run and the proposed stage 1 or lifetime stage 2 basis depending on whether a ongoing business as usual model as well as model governance, significant increase in credit risk has occurred since initial controls and procedures.
recognition or where an account meets the Groups definition of default stage 3.
Loan book acquisition accounting and income recognition Acquired loan books are initially recognised at fair value.
The modelled ECL calculation is a product of an individual loans Significant judgement is required in calculating their effective probability of default PD, exposure at default EAD and loss interest rate EIR, using cash flow models which include given default LGD, discounted at the effective interest rate assumptions on the likely macroeconomic environment, including EIR.
The ECL drivers of PD, EAD and LGD are modelled at an HPI, unemployment levels and interest rates, as well as loan level account level.
and portfolio attributes and history used to derive prepayment rates, the probability and timing of defaults and the amount of Key estimates and assumptions which feed modelled ECL incurred losses.
The EIRs on loan books purchased at significant calculations relate to 1 macroeconomic scenarios which are discounts are particularly sensitive to the prepayment and default probability weighted 2 significant increase in credit risk SICR rates derived as the purchase discount is recognised over the thresholds 3 forced sale discount rates 4 time to sale expected life of the loan book through the EIR.
New defaults are assumptions 5 propensity to go to possession given default rates modelled at zero loss as losses will be recognised in profit and PPD 6 sale cost estimates 7 cure criteria utilised to transition loss as impairment losses and therefore have the same impact on accounts from stage 3 to stage 2 or 1.
Incurred losses at acquisition are calculated using the Groups collective provision model.
The Committee The Committee received and challenged reports from reviewed and challenged reports from management before each management prior to each reporting date, explaining the reporting date on the approach taken.
Particular focus was approach taken to provisioning and the resulting changes in givento loan books where performance varied from expectation.
provision levels during the period.
The Committee assessed the The Committee reviewed a comparison of actual cash flows to appropriateness of proposed enhancements to the those assumed in the cash flow models by book to challenge methodologies, judgements and estimates underpinning managements assessment of the need to update cash flow expected credit loss calculations.
projections and adjust carrying values accordingly.
In addition, the 84 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report continued Committee reviewed sensitivity analysis on the potential Following its review, the Committee is satisfied that the Annual impactof Brexit-related downside economic scenarios on future Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the prepayment and default rates and expected cash flows.
Based information necessary for shareholders and other stakeholders onthis work, the Committee is satisfied that the approach taken toassess the Groups position and performance, business model andjudgements made were reasonable.
and strategy, and has advised the Board accordingly.
Effective interest rate Pillar 3 disclosures The Committee approved the Groups Pillar 3 A number of assumptions are made when calculating the regulatory disclosures for publication on the Groups website, effective interest rate for newly originated loan assets.
These following a review of the governance and control procedures include their expected lives, likely redemption profiles and the around their preparation.
anticipated level of any early redemption charges ERCs.
Certain mortgage products offered by the Bank include significant Internal Audit  net fee income, in particular Buy-to-Let, The Chief Internal Auditor and her team is supported by a panel and or those that revert to the standard variable rate SVR after ofexternal accountancy firms who provide expert resource, when an initial discount or fixed period.
Judgement is used in assessing requested, on specific internal audits.
the expected rate of prepayment during the discounted or fixed period of these mortgages and the expected life of those that The primary role of Internal Audit is to help the Board and senior prepay.
The Group uses historical experience in its assessment.
management to protect the Groups assets, reputation and Judgement is also used in assessing whether and for how long sustainability.
It assists the Group in accomplishing its objectives mortgages that reach the end of the product term stay on SVR.
by bringing a systematic and disciplined approach to evaluate and The most significant area of judgement is the period spent on SVR.
improve the effectiveness of the risk management, control and Prior to 2018, the Group prudently assumed no period on SVR governance processes.
before the borrower refinanced onto a new product or redeemed until a consistent behavioural trend could emerge following a new The Internal Audit Charter, which formally defines internal audits enhanced broker-led retention programme.
At the 2018 year end, purpose, authority and responsibility, was approved by the the Committee concluded that there was sufficient behavioural Committee in December 2018.
The Committee also approved data to incorporate a period spent on SVR in the effective interest theannual Internal Audit Plan, which was developed, based rate.
This was based on a careful consideration of actual onaprioritisation of the audit universe using a risk-based behavioural data post the enhanced programme and the methodology, including input from senior management and the potential impact of the economic and regulatory outlook Committee.
A written report is prepared following the conclusion andadditional planned changes to the programme on future of each Internal Audit engagement and distributed to the behaviour.
The Committee also reviewed and challenged other Committee and senior management.
Responsibility for ensuring assumptions used in the EIR calculations, in particular the appropriate corrective action is taken, lies with management.
redemption profile over which net fee income is spread and TheInternal Audit function follows up on engagement findings expected ERCs for fixed rate products.
The Committee received and recommendations until remedial actions have been and reviewed sensitivity analysis for key assumptions.
The Committee reviewed in detail high and medium this work, the Committee is satisfied that the approach taken findings within internal audit reports and monitored the andjudgements made were reasonable.
associated management actions until closed.
Further details of the above significant areas of judgement can The Committee carries out an annual review of the effectiveness befound in note 2 to the financial statements.
of the Internal Audit function.
In 2018 this was facilitated by a survey completed by Committee members, certain executives and In addition, the Committee reviewed the Groups approach to the external auditors who had interacted with the Internal Audit hedge accounting and received reports on the effectiveness function during the year.
Following the review, the Committee was oftheGroups macro-hedging throughout the year.
satisfied that the Internal Audit function operated effectively during the year.
The Committee also considered the results of managements regular reviews of the amortisation profile of fair value adjustments Systems of internal control and risk management on hedged assets associated with cancelled swaps against the The Committee received regular reports from the Internal Audit roll-off of the underlying legacy back book of long-dated fixed rate function during 2018, which included progress updates against mortgages.
The Group accelerated the amortisation of fair value the Internal Audit Plan, the results of audits undertaken and any adjustments on hedged assets in line with the mortgage asset outstanding audit action points.
The Committee approved the run-off, due to faster than expected prepayments.
annual review of the Compliance Risk Assessment and Assurance Plan and received regular reports from the Groups Compliance In addition, the Committee reviewed the accounting treatment function.
The Committee used the Internal Audit and Compliance for the exceptional cost of fair valuing the option to acquire the JV Reports as the basis for its assessment of the effectiveness of the partners interest in the Heritable Development Finance business Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
The from our joint venture partners.
Committee also received a report on the effectiveness of the Groups system of controls from the CEO, which was based on Fair, balanced and understandable aself-assessment process completed by senior managers The Committee considered, on behalf of the Board, whether the andexecutives in the Group.
2018 Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable, and whether the The Committee received and reviewed reports from management disclosures are appropriate.
The Committee reviewed the Groups on the status of the substantiation of balance sheet general procedures around the preparation, review and challenge of the ledger accounts prior to the reporting date.
Annual Report and the consistency of the narrative sections with the financial statements and the use of alternative performance measures and associated disclosures.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 The Committee reviewed and approved a number of policies support to the Committee as well as the independence and following their annual update, including: anti-bribery and objectivity of the external auditor.
The assessment concluded corruption, data protection, data retention and record thatthe external audit process was effective throughout 2018. management, fraud, sanctions, whistleblowing and anti-money laundering and counter terrorist financing.
The Committee Non-audit services received reports on fraud prevention arrangements, fraud The engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit incidents, whistleblowing and an annual report from the services to the Group could impact the assessment of its GroupsMoney Laundering Reporting Officer during the year.
The Group has therefore established a policy governing the use of the external auditor for non-audit The Committee also received regular updates on data governance services.
The policy specifies prohibited and approved permitted and controls as the Group continued to enhance its data services as detailed in the table on page 86 for 2018 and sets the governance arrangements in connection with its planned framework within which permitted non-audit services may be application for an Internal Ratings-Based IRB model for provided.
Prohibited services comprise activities that are generally capital requirements.
perceived to involve the auditor making judgements or decisions that are the responsibility of management.
External auditor The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups The Groups policy governing the use of the external auditor for relationship with its external auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG.
This non-audit services was updated in 2017 and 2018 to comply with includes the ongoing assessment of the auditors independence new EU statutory audit market reform legislation adopted in the and the effectiveness of the external audit process, the results UK.
Restrictions on the nature of permissible non-audit services ofwhich inform the Committees recommendation to the Board became effective for financial periods commencing on or after relating to the auditors appointment subject to shareholder 17 June 2016.
These included certain restrictions on the use of approval or otherwise.
thestatutory auditor for tax compliance and advice.
Accordingly, the Group ceased using KPMG for tax compliance or advice after Appointment and tenure 31 December 2016.
KPMG was appointed as the first external auditor of the Group for the period ended 31 December 2011.
Prior to that date it fulfilled The Group maintains active relationships with several other the external audit function for Kent Reliance Building Society from largefirms and any decision to appoint the external auditor for the period ended 31 December 2010.
The current lead audit non-audit services is taken in the context of its understanding partner, Pamela McIntyre, has been in role since the 2016 audit.
ofthe Group, which can place it in a better position than other The Audit Committee confirms that the Group has complied with firms to undertake the work and includes an assessment of the the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market cost-effectiveness and practicality of using an alternative firm.
Investigation mandatory use of competitive tender processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, which requires The new EU statutory audit market reform legislation adopted FTSE 350 companies to put their statutory audit services out to inthe UK also applies a cap on permissible non-audit services tender no less frequently than every ten years.
of70% of the preceding three-year average of audit fees.
This is applicable for financial periods commencing on or after New EU legislation adopted by the UK in 2016 set a maximum 17 June 2019. audit tenure of 20 years and also requires a tender at least every ten years.
The new legislation is effective for financial periods The Committee pre-approved a number of permitted services commencing on or after 17 June 2016.
Against this backdrop, the in 2018, including interim profit verifications and the half year Group put the external audit contract out for tender for its 2019 review.
The Committee also pre-approved other permitted financial year.
There are no restrictive contractual provisions non-audit services subject to an overall threshold of 50% of the limiting the Companys choice of auditor.
final cost of 2018 Group annual audit services and subject to any single item above 100,000 being pre-agreed with the Committee A formal tender process was launched in the fourth quarter of Chair.
The Committee regularly reviews a schedule of year-to-date 2017 with a desk top review of audit firms, focusing on expertise non-audit services.
and experience in FTSE 350 audits in financial services.
Anumber of firms were then invited to take part in a request for information The fees paid to the external auditor in respect of non-audit RFI process in December 2017, followed by face-to-face services during 2018 totalled 135,000 representing 17% of 2018 meetings between the proposed lead audit partners and senior Group audit services of 814,000 2017: 151,000 representing managers and a sub-set of the Committee in early 2018.
The 19% of 2017 Group audit services of 816,000 and are detailed Committee then selected a shortlist of two firms, inthe table below.
 LLP and Deloitte LLP, in March 2018 to Group Group take through to a formal request for proposal RFP process.
As 2018 2017 aresult of the RFP process Deloitte LLP was selected as external 000 000 auditor for the year ending 31 December 2019.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor Effectiveness for the audit of the Companys annual The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit accounts 626 638 function on an annual basis.
In 2018, the review was facilitated Fees payable to the Companys auditor through a survey completed by members of the Committee, and its associates for other services: certain Executive Directors and other key employees who had Audit of the accounts of subsidiaries 188 178 significant interaction with the external audit team during the Audit-related assurance services 95 96 year.
The survey assessed the effectiveness of the lead partner Tax compliance services 9 8 and audit team, the audit approach and execution, the role of Other assurance services 31 47 management in the audit process, communication, reporting and 86 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report continued Prohibited services Approved permitted services Book-keeping and preparing accounting records and General accounting advice on the application of IFRS and training financial statements support Financial information systems design and Regulatory advice and reporting tools implementation.
Internal control or risk management procedures relating to financial information design or implementation Valuation services, including those in connection with Comfort letters, accounting opinions as required by the regulator, actuarial or litigation support services FLS TFS net lending assurance opinions, agreed upon procedures in relation to securitisations HR and payroll services Other audit-related services: interim profit verification: half year review Services linked to the financing, capital structure and OSBI tax audit required under the Indian Income Tax Act allocation and investment strategy of the Company other than assurance services in relation to the financial statements such as comfort letters Promoting, dealing in or underwriting shares in the Such other activities as may be agreed by the Committee from time Company to time Legal services with respect to the provision of general counsel, negotiating on behalf of the audit entity and acting in an advocacy role in the resolution of litigation or litigation support Internal audit services Tax services, including tax compliance and advice Services that play any part in the management or decision-making of the Company Remuneration services such as quantum of remuneration package or measurement criteria for a Director in key management position Restructuring services in relation to matters that are material to the financial statements Included within the audit of the Bank and Group accounts is150k 2017: 165k relating to the audit of IFRS 9.
Other assurance services in 2018 include a review of data submitted tothe Bank of England under the TFS and a review of the OSB India Private Limited financial statements as required by Indianincome tax rules.
The Committees assessment of the external auditors independence in 2018 took into account the non-audit services provided during the year, and confirmations given by KPMG as toits continued independence at various stages in the year.
Training The Committee undertook a significant amount of training during the year, including making extensive use of the Audit Committee Institute and training programmes run by the major accountancy firms.
The members of the Committee attended seminars and update meetings held by the Financial Reporting Council.
In addition, Committee members attended a number of executive level Committee meetings and met with key staff during the year to increase their knowledge and understanding of the business.
Effectiveness The Committee formally considers its effectiveness annually.
In 2018, the assessment was facilitated using a survey completed by members of the Committee.
The review concluded that the Committee operated effectively throughout 2018 with no significant improvements required.
