Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Report Executive and Non-Executive Directors Compliance with the UK Composition of the Board are equal members of the Board and Corporate Governance Code As at the end of the year under review have collective responsibility for Board the Board comprised the Chairman, decisions.
The Non-Executive Directors During the year ended 31 December the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief bring a wealth of skills and experience to 2018 and to the date of this document, Financial Officer and five Non-Executive the Board and its Committees.
the Company has complied with the Directors.
All Directors served throughout provisions of the UK Corporate The Board has a formal schedule of the year except Danuta Gray who Governance Code 2016 the Code.
matters reserved for its decision which ceased to be a Director on 7 June 2018.
The Code is publicly available on the include: The biographies of each of the current FRC website www.
In this Directors that served throughout the year Group strategy and corporate Corporate Governance section, together can be found on pages 42 to 45. objectives: with the Strategic Report on pages 1 to Determining the nature and extent 40, the Directors Remuneration Report The Board keeps under regular review of the significant risks the Board on pages 58 to 77 and the Directors the skills and experience of its members is willing to take in achieving Report on pages 78 to 80, we describe and also monitors the independence the strategic objectives of the how we have applied the main principles of Directors.
The Board considers Company: of the Code.
all current Non-Executive Directors Major changes to the nature, scope to be independent.
In addition, the The Board welcomes the evolution of the or scale of the business of the Board determined that David Lowden Code in the revised edition published in Group: was independent at the time of his 2018.
The Board has appraised itself of appointment as Chairman.
Corporate governance matters: the changes to the Code through training and discussions about the implications There is a clear division of responsibilities Approval of Nomination Committee for the Company.
During 2019 we will between the role of the Chairman and recommendations on the make governance changes where that of the Chief Executive Officer.
While appointment and removal of appropriate, for example, key areas of the Board is collectively responsible Directors and succession planning: change include ensuring whistleblowing for the success of the Company, the Changes to the Groups capital is a matter for the Board as opposed Chairman manages the Board to ensure structure and approval of any to the Audit Committee and oversight that the Company has appropriate business plan prior to a new entity by the Remuneration Committee of objectives and an effective strategy.
He being established in a new territory: Group wide remuneration policies.
The ensures that there is a Chief Executive Financial reporting, audit and tax Board has considered its responsibilities Officer with a team to implement the matters: regarding employee engagement and strategy and that there are procedures in Material contracts and transactions culture and has scheduled presentations place to inform the Board of performance not in the ordinary course of enabling it to ensure it has the ability against objectives.
The Chairman also business: to fully assess and monitor culture ensures that the Company is operating and proposed workforce engagement in accordance with the principles of Material capital expenditure mechanisms.
As mentioned on page corporate governance.
The Chairmans projects: 52, the Board through the Nomination other significant commitments are Approval of the annual budget: Committee, will also be seeking to noted on page 42.
The Board considers Obtaining major finance: and build on the work done to strengthen that these are not a constraint on the Communications with stakeholders the Groups pipeline and continue to Chairmans agreed time commitment to and complying with regulatory monitor progress on the Groups diversity the Company.
Patrick fide Smedt, as Senior Independent Director, acts as an Induction, training and The Board and its operation alternative channel of communication for information shareholders.
He also acts as a sounding The Board of PageGroup plc is the body board for the Chairman and serves as an responsible for the overall conduct of the Relevant training, advice and information intermediary for other Directors.
Groups business and has the powers is made available to Directors to enable and duties set out in relevant laws of the Board to function effectively and Steve Ingham, the Chief Executive England and Wales and in its Articles efficiently.
As and when new Directors Officer, has overall responsibility for the of Association.
join the Board, the Chairman assisted day-to-day management of the Groups by the General Counsel & Company operations.
He develops the vision The Boards role is to provide strategic Secretary takes responsibility for their and strategy for the Boards review, leadership of the Group within a induction.
On appointment to the implements the Boards approved framework of prudent and effective Board, each Director discusses with the strategy and chairs the Executive controls which enable risk to be Chairman and the General Counsel & Committee known within the Group as assessed and managed.
The Board is Company Secretary the extent of the the Executive Board which executes collectively responsible to the Companys training required.
A tailored induction the delivery of the annual operating shareholders for the success of the programme to cover their individual plans.
He also leads the programme of Company.
The Board is satisfied that it requirements is then compiled.
has met the Codes requirements for its of the programme consist typically effective operation.
47 | Corporate Governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 of meetings with senior executives, site issues facing the business and enables Board and committee visits, attending internal conferences and robust review of the current and future attendance consultant shadowing to understand performance of the Group.
the day-to-day activities of a recruitment The table below sets out the number consultant.
In addition, information is of meetings of the Board held during Board committees provided on the Companys services, the year and individual attendance The Board has three principal Board Group structure, Board arrangements, by the Directors at these meetings, Committees, each of which regularly financial and environmental, social and demonstrating commitment to their reports to the Board: the Audit Committee, governance information, major competitors role as Directors of the Company.
Nomination Committee and Remuneration and major risks.
Attendance by the relevant members Committee.
The Audit and Remuneration of each Committee can be found on Directors update and refresh their Committees are comprised solely of page 53 Audit Committee, page 51 knowledge and familiarity with the Group independent Non-Executive Directors.
Nomination Committee and page through site visits, participation at meetings 61 Remuneration Committee.
The The Nomination Committee is comprised with, and receiving presentations, from Board met eight times during the year.
of all Non-Executive Directors and is senior management.
This is in addition to During the year under review the Nonchaired by the Chairman of the Board who the access that every Director has to the Executive Directors met on several was independent on appointment.
Details advice and services of the General Counsel occasions without the Executive of the composition and activities of each & Company Secretary.
The General Directors being present.
The NonCommittee can be found in the respective Counsel & Company Secretary is present Executive Directors also met without reports of each Committee: Audit at all Board meetings and is responsible the presence of the Chairman.
Committee Report on pages 53 to 57: to the Board for ensuring that Board the Nomination Committee Report on procedures are complied with as well as No.
of pages 51 and 52: and the Directors advising the Board on new legislation and Director meetings Remuneration Report on page 61. attended corporate governance matters.
Board Committees and Directors are also given Each Committee has clear terms of David Lowden 8 out of 8 access to independent professional advice reference, copies of which can be at the Groups expense if the Directors Simon Boddie 8 out of 8 found on the Companys website deem it necessary in order for them to www.
Each Committee also Patrick fide Smedt 8 out of 8 carry out their responsibilities.
reviews its effectiveness and makes Danuta Gray 3 out of 3 recommendations to the Board of any Areas the Board covered in 2018 included appropriate changes as and when updates on culture, technology and Michelle Healy 7 out of 8 required.
The Chairman of each of the innovation programmes, several deep-dive Board Committees will be available to Steve Ingham 8 out of 8 presentations on key markets around the answer shareholders questions at the world in which the Group operates and Sylvia Metayer 8 out of 8 forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
reviewing potential new areas of business Angela Seymourand locations.
Given the importance of The General Counsel & Company 8 out of 8 Jackson data security the Board has monitored Secretary acts as secretary to each on-going compliance with the General of these Committees and minutes of Kelvin Stagg 8 out of 8 Data Protection Regulation that came into meetings are circulated to all Committee force on 25 May 2018.
For each Board members and to all members of the Board Note: Danuta Gray ceased to be a Director on and Committee meeting Directors receive a 7 June 2018 and was therefore eligible to attend unless it would be inappropriate to do so.
pack of relevant information on the matters The Group also has an Executive Board to be discussed.
The Board uses a third which is chaired by the Chief Executive Succession planning party board portal to distribute information Officer.
It comprises the Chief Financial quickly and securely.
The Chief Executive Executive development and Officer and other senior executives, Officer presents a comprehensive update succession planning discussions are biographies for whom can be found on on the business issues across the Group held each year.
The Executive Board usually to the Board and the Chief Financial focus on the development and meets four times a year and is responsible Officer presents a detailed analysis of the succession of the Executive Directors, for assisting the Chief Executive Officer financial performance.
The Board also Executive Board members and other in the performance of his duties.
receives at each Board Meeting an Investor senior managers in the Group, with These include the development and Relations Report, including any feedback the aim of ensuring that existing senior implementation of strategy, operational from investors and Investor Roadshows.
executives are being developed and plans, policies, procedures and budgets.
Regional Managing Directors and other that there is a pipeline of talented These activities are performed at a regional senior managers also attend relevant parts senior individuals within the business.
level by regional boards for each of the UK, of Board meetings and the Board Strategy Development and succession North America, Continental Europe, Asia Day in order to make presentations on planning is a critical part of the Chief Pacific and Latin America, Middle East and their areas of responsibility.
All of the Executive Officers performance Africa.
Each regional board usually meets above gives a comprehensive view on the objectives for annual bonus and at least four times a year.
Corporate Governance | 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Report long-term remuneration.
The Group comprehensive report to Board members.
proper accounting records are maintained, operates an extensive Talent, Succession Overall the outcome of the review was that the financial information used within & Development programme across the positive.
A number of constructive areas of the business and for publication is reliable business which assesses development focus for 2019 emerged including: and to support the successful delivery of needs and nurtures high potential the Groups Vision.
Any system of internal continued spotlight sessions on high employees throughout the various stages control can only provide reasonable, but potential and other key markets of their careers.
Diversity considerations are not absolute, assurance against material coupled with exposure to regional a fundamental element of the programme.
In practice the management: Board delegates the implementation of In addition, the Nomination Committee additional presentations on technology the Boards policy on risks and control also considers the breadth and depth being considered and trialled across to executive management and this is of experience of the Non-Executive the Group as part of a focus on monitored by an Internal Audit function Directors and considers on a regular basis innovation: which reports back to the Board through succession planning for the Board as a continued evaluation of emerging the Audit Committee.
Information on the Boards policy on trends and the competitive landscape diversity both at Board level and the Group The key elements of our system of internal in the recruitment and services sector: can be found in the Nomination Committee control are as follows: and Report on page 52 and the Strategic Group Organisation The Board building upon the progress made in Report on page 23. of Directors meets eight times a year, relation to succession planning and focusing both on strategic issues and understanding the Groups pipeline Performance evaluation operational and financial performance.
with due regard to diversity objectives.
There is also a defined policy on The Code requires that there is a formal The Senior Independent Director matters reserved strictly for the Board.
and rigorous annual evaluation of the conducted a review of the Chairman and The Regional Managing Director, Board, its Committees and individual the Chairman evaluated the performance supported by a Regional Finance Directors.
In line with this requirement, of the individual Directors, by means of Director, of each of our four regions each year the Board carries out a thorough interviews for both review processes.
is accountable for establishing and review of its performance and that of monitoring internal controls within our its Committees including assessing the Re-election of Directors respective regions.
The The Companys Articles of Association Annual Business Plan The Board 2017 review was facilitated by Lintstock provide that each Director must retire from reviews the Groups strategy and an independent advisory firm specialising office every three years.
The Code goes approves an annual Group budget.
in board evaluations with no connection beyond this, requiring all Directors to retire Performance is then monitored by to the Group and the Board monitored and stand for re-election at each Annual the Board through the review of progress on the outcomes of the review.
The Company complies monthly reports showing comparisons The Board believes it made good progress with the Code requirement.
All Directors of results against budget, quarterly in 2018 on the action points from that will submit themselves for re-election at the forecasts and the prior year, with review including ensuring fully on-boarding forthcoming Annual General Meeting on explanations provided for significant the newer members of the Board, 24 May 2019. variances.
improving the quality of information on strategic initiatives and in strengthening Policies and Procedures Policies Internal control and risk succession planning activity.
For 2018 an and procedures are documented internal Board evaluation was conducted over both financial controls and nonmanagement by David Lowden, the Chairman, assisted quantifiable areas such as the Groups The Board retains responsibility for the by the General Counsel & Company whistleblowing policy and its policy Groups overall risk appetite and for the Secretary.
The review involved a detailed relating to anti-bribery and corruption, effectiveness of its risk management and series of written questions relating to the gifts and hospitality.
The procedures effectiveness of the Board and of all of its Risk Management The Board has established by the Board have been Committees.
It covered areas such as: established a framework for identifying designed and implemented to meet the understanding of technology affecting and managing risk, both at a strategic particular requirements of the Group and the recruitment sector: and operational level.
An overview of the risks to which it is exposed and are this framework and a summary of the changes to the Corporate Governance reviewed on a regular basis.
principal risks identified, together with Code: and mitigating actions, can be found in the These procedures also provide an ongoing adequacy of information and Strategic Report on pages 29 to 34. process for identifying, evaluating and presentations for the Board.
The system Internal Audit The Groups Internal In addition to the question sets detailed of internal control includes financial, Audit function examines business above each member of the Board had compliance and operational controls, process controls throughout the a one-on-one private follow up with the which are designed to meet the Groups Group on a risk basis and reports the Chairman to discuss the findings from particular needs.
These controls aim to findings to the Executive Board and the review.
The Chairman provided a safeguard Group assets, ensure that Audit Committee.
Agreed actions are 49 | Corporate Governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 monitored and reported to the balanced and understandable and that www.
The website contains Audit Committee.
it provides the information necessary for up-to-date information on the Groups shareholders to assess the Companys activities, published financial results and Confirmations from Executive position and performance, business the presentations used for briefings and Management The Managing model and strategy.
investor meetings held during the year.
Director and Finance Director of These are available to download.
our operations in each country Neither the Company nor the Directors formally certify twice a year whether accept any liability to any person in The Annual General Meeting is an the business has adhered to the relation to the Annual Report except to additional opportunity for all Board system of internal control during the extent that such liability could arise members to meet with shareholders the period, including compliance under English law.
and investors and give them the with Group policies.
The statement opportunity to ask questions.
Final also requires the reporting of voting results are published through a Relations with shareholders any significant control issues Regulatory Information Service and on Communications with shareholders that have emerged, including the Companys website following the are given a high priority.
The majority suspected or reported frauds, so Meeting.
of contact between the Board and that areas of Group concern can shareholders is through the Chief be identified and investigated as Conflicts Executive Officer and the Chief required.
These confirmations and Financial Officer.
They make themselves supporting controls self-assessment The Company has implemented robust available, wherever possible, to meet questionnaires are reviewed by procedures in line with the Companies with shareholders and analysts at their the Internal Audit function and a Act 2006, requiring Directors to seek request.
There is a regular dialogue with summary of findings is provided to appropriate authorisation from the individual institutional shareholders and the Audit Committee for review.
Board prior to entering into any outside quarterly trading update conference calls business interests which have, or In accordance with the requirements of and presentations after our half year and could have, a direct or indirect interest the Code and the recommendations of full year results are made to analysts.
that conflicts, or may conflict, with the the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management Meetings are also held with investors Groups interests.
These procedures and Related Financial and Business and potential investors by members of have operated effectively throughout Reporting, the Board has reviewed and the Investor Relations team and senior the year under review.
The Nomination agreed its approach to risk and its risk management ad hoc during the year.
Committee is responsible for reviewing appetite when considering its strategy Early in 2018, the Company performed possible conflicts of interest.
It makes and the management of its risks.
It has an Investor Perception study aimed at recommendations to the Board as to also considered its longer-term viability.
identifying matters investors wished to be whether a conflict should be authorised Details on the Boards risk appetite and its informed about in the short to medium and the terms and conditions on which assessment of its longer-term viability can term.
Following that study, the Company any such authorisation should be given be found in the Strategic Report on pages held an Investor Afternoon in London and by the Board.
Only Directors without an 29 to 35.
Further, the Board, with the presented on the following items: interest in the matter being considered assistance of the Audit Committee, has will be involved in the decision and each progress made against our Vision carried out a review of the effectiveness of Director must act in a way they consider, set out in 2013 and our updated the Groups risk management and internal in good faith, will promote the success of Vision for the Group: control systems, including a review of the the Group.
All Directors are aware of their insight on how we are delivering Internal Audit activities and the financial, continuing obligation to report any new our Vision from a number of our operational and compliance controls for interests, or changes in existing interests, Regional Senior Managers: the period from 1 January 2018 to the that might amount to a possible conflict date of this Annual Report.
No significant how workplace trends are changing of interest in order that these may be failings or weaknesses were identified.
customers recruitment needs considered by the Board and appropriate A confirmation of any necessary actions and how our business model authorisation given.
However, continues to evolve to meet their had there been any such failings or requirements: weaknesses the Board confirms that how we are leveraging technology necessary actions would have been taken to drive customer acquisition and to remedy them.
David Lowden customer engagement through Chairman innovation and digital channels: and Directors confirmation 5 March 2019 how our transformation projects The Directors are responsible for have increased our business preparing the Annual Report in flexibility and the subsequent impact accordance with applicable law and on past and future conversion.
Having taken advice The Annual Report and Accounts is from the Audit Committee, the Board available to all shareholders either in considers the Annual Report and hard copy or via the Companys website Accounts, taken as a whole, as fair, Corporate Governance | 50
