Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Nomination Committee Report Annual General Meeting.
All other members and the requirements of the members served throughout the year.
Company and its future strategy.
Once Several Directors appointment letters finalised the profile is recommended were due to expire in 2018.
Further by the Committee to the Board for its details can be found on page 70. approval.
The Committee recommended all If approved, a search and selection appointments be extended for a further process based on that profile is three years.
No Director was entitled to undertaken.
The recruitment process vote in respect of their own continuing places importance on diversity appointment.
Candidates are Only members of the Committee are identified and selected on merit against David Lowden, entitled to attend meetings.
Other objective criteria while having due Committee Chairman individuals, such as the Chief Executive regard to the benefits of diversity on Officer, the Group Human Resources the Board.
A shortlist of candidates is Dear Shareholder, Director and external advisers, may then interviewed by the Chairman of the attend meetings by invitation when Board, the Chief Executive Officer and I am pleased to present the Nomination appropriate and necessary.
This members of the Committee.
Thereafter Committee Report for the year ended arrangement fosters appropriate a recommendation of appointment is 31 December 2018.
The Committees challenge, questioning and debate of made to the Board.
main focus during the year under the recommendations made by the review can broadly be summarised as Committee to the Board.
undertaking a thorough review of Board Activities during the year and senior leadership succession, and During 2018 the Committee met on assessment and development of the Responsibilities four occasions.
Details of the members Groups talent pipeline.
The latter being The key responsibilities of the Committee attendance at meetings of the Committee considered by the Committee as critical are to: are as follows: to the Groups future success.
As I Assess and nominate members to mentioned in my Chairmans statement No.
of the Board in accordance with the on page 2, in terms of changes to the Director meetings process and diversity considerations Board during the year, Danuta Gray attended outlined below: decided not to stand for re-election at David Lowden 4 out of 4 the June 2018 Annual General Meeting Maintain the right mix of character, and consequently, she ceased to be a skills and experience on the Board Simon Boddie 4 out of 4 Director from that date.
Angela Seymourand its Committees: Patrick fide Smedt 4 out of 4 Jackson was appointed to succeed her Make recommendations to the as chair of the Remuneration Committee Danuta Gray 0 out of 2 Board on development and and she has brought a wealth of succession plans for members of Michelle Healy 3 out of 4 experience to this role.
the Board and senior management: Sylvia Metayer 3 out of 4 Approve job descriptions and Purpose written terms of appointment for Angela Seymour-Jackson 4 out of 4 Directors: and The Nomination Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Review the independence of NonNote: Danuta Gray ceased to be a member of the Committee on 7 June 2018.
One of the meetings Company has the executive and Executive Directors, taking into she did not attend was held on 6 June 2018. non-executive Board leadership it account their other directorships.
requires, both now and for the future.
When the Committee considers any It reviews all key roles to ensure Committees focus during appointment it follows a formal and comprehensive succession plans are in 2018 transparent procedure.
It is assisted place to ensure organisational stability in its search for new Non-Executive and to ensure talented individuals are The Committee focused on succession Directors by an independent executive provided with opportunities to develop.
planning both for senior management search company.
With each new search and the Board.
During the year under the Committee selects the executive review the Committee has ensured that Membership search company which it considers the all key roles within the global organisation During the year under review the most appropriate and relevant for the have an identified succession plan in members of the Committee were David assignment.
These executive search place and, importantly, all critical roles Lowden, who was Chairman of the companies have no connection with the have an identified emergency successor.
Committee, Simon Boddie, Patrick fide Company other than the provision of the The Committee recognises the need Smedt, Michelle Healy, Sylvia Metayer search services.
With each assignment for talent to be nurtured across the and Angela Seymour-Jackson.
Danuta a detailed candidate profile is compiled Company and has overseen the Gray ceased to be a member from and discussed by the Committee, implementation of a Global Talent, 7 June 2018 as she did not stand for taking into consideration the balance of Succession & Development programme.
re-election at the Companys 2018 skills and experience of existing Board 51 | Corporate Governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 This means it has full line of sight of high The activities of the Committee were has been working hard to address this potential talent across management and reviewed as part of the annual Board and actions taken include: as mentioned in this report, has enabled evaluation process which, in 2018 was identifying high potential women the Committee to ensure the Companys carried out internally.
Details of the as part of the Global Talent, diversity and inclusion agenda is being evaluation process can be found in Succession & Development suitably considered.
the Corporate Governance Report on Programme: page 49.
The Committee is committed to a culture continuing support for a global of career progression and ensuring our mentoring programme and Diversity people reach their potential.
In 2018 this Women@Page, a global network resulted in the Committee working with aimed at engagement, enablement As a recruitment company we are the Group HR Director to review and and empowerment of women passionately committed to promoting refresh its Global Directors Academy across the organisation: and diversity, inclusion and equality in the and introduce new development workplace both internally and externally.
reviewing the Global Directors programmes for high potential talent.
The Committee views diversity and Academy to have a greater gender Working with IESE Business School in inclusion in its broadest sense.
It is fully balance and to include a focus on Barcelona and YSC, bespoke strategic committed across the organisation to inclusion.
leadership training and development a diversity policy which seeks diversity This year all Managing Directors have has been introduced for those in key of experience, capability, geographic gender diversity objectives included leadership positions.
experience, gender and all other qualities in their strategic objectives and a which makes each of us unique.
The The Committee also considered the new sponsorship programme will overarching objective of the policy is to pipeline of talent for the Executive Board be launched in conjunction with the ensure different perspectives and insight to ensure there is sufficient bench Executive Board to encourage future are brought to all areas of the business, strength to run key parts of PageGroup.
promotion of high potential women.
including the Board, generating During the year under review the Details in respect of the objective of creativity, problem-solving capability and Committee members met Executive increasing representation of women sustainability that would otherwise not Committee members, and executives across the organisation can also be be possible.
at the level below the Executive Board, found on page 23 of the Strategic through presentations at the Companys The Committee notes the Report.
annual Strategy Day, at Board Meetings recommendations of the Parker Review and during site visits.
This year members as regards ethnic representation Plan for 2019 visited the Companys Frankfurt Office on Boards and exceeds the In 2019 the Committee will continue to and also attended the Group Leadership recommendations of Lord Davies as review the size of the Board, its mix of Conference.
The management and reiterated in the Hampton-Alexander skills and experience, and succession development of the talent pipeline is Review with over 33% of the Board plans for both Executive and Nonthe responsibility of the Chief Executive being female.
We recognise, however, Executive Directors.
It will also seek to Officer so that the independence of that there is currently a lower proportion build on the work done to strengthen the the Committee and its members is of women holding senior roles below Groups pipeline and continue to monitor maintained.
The Company progress on the Groups diversity agenda in line with the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code 2018.
