Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report and ongoing basis through updates, approval by the Board.
It is published on the provided by the Companys external Company's website www.
Set auditor, on developments in corporate out in the table on page 54 is a summary of reporting and regulation.
the main activities of the Committee during 2018.
Key issues covered by the Committee Only members of the Committee are entitled are reported to the Board.
Other individuals, such as the Chairman of the Board, the Chief The Committee met on seven occasions.
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, Committee meetings are set to coincide with the General Counsel & Company Secretary, key dates of the financial reporting calendar the Director of Internal Audit and the external and the audit cycle.
The Committee is audit partner are regularly invited to attend provided with sufficient resources to Simon Boddie, meetings as appropriate and necessary.
Committee Chair Committee can invite others to attend as Details of the members attendance appropriate.
at the meetings of the Committee are Dear Shareholder, The Board is satisfied that the Chairman as follows: of the Committee has the recent and I am pleased to present the Audit No.
of relevant financial experience required by Committee Report for the year ended Director meetings the Code.
Sylvia Metayer also has relevant 31 December 2018.
This Report aims to attended financial and accounting experience and provide an overview of the Committee's other members of the Committee have Simon Boddie 7 out of 7 principal areas of focus during the year.
a sufficiently wide range of business Patrick fide Smedt 7 out of 7 In the year under review, the Committee experience and expertise such that the has focused on ensuring the integrity Danuta Gray 2 out of 3 Committee as a whole has competence of the Company's published financial Michelle Healy 7 out of 7 relevant to the sector in which the Company statements, assessing the independence operates.
The relevant qualifications and Sylvia Metayer 7 out of 7 and effectiveness of the Group's external experience of the Committee members are Angela Seymour-Jackson 7 out of 7 auditor, and reviewing the internal control shown in their biographies on pages 43 to environment and effectiveness of the Note: Danuta Gray ceased to be a Director on 45.
The Committee met with the external internal audit process.
7 June 2018 and therefore was only eligible to attend auditor during the year without the presence three meetings.
of management in order to provide an Purpose opportunity for confidential discussion.
The Financial reporting The Audit Committee is a fundamental Director of Internal Audit and the external part of the Groups governance auditor met with, and have direct access to, In its financial reporting to shareholders and framework being the guardian of the the Chairman of the Committee throughout other interested parties, the Board aims to integrity of the Companys financial the year.
present a fair, balanced and understandable statements and external reporting assessment of the Groups position and of performance.
It also has the Principal areas of focus long-term sustainability, providing necessary responsibility for ensuring that the information for shareholders to assess The Committee is committed to maintaining necessary internal controls and risk the Companys business model, strategy and monitoring the quality and integrity of management systems are in place and performance.
The Company has an financial reporting, as well as assessing the and effective.
established process for reviewing the Companys risk management systems and Annual Report and Accounts to ensure it internal control environment to ensure they Membership is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee has was used again this year.
It included a In 2018 the members of the Audit reviewed the Companys crisis management thorough understanding of the regulatory Committee were Simon Boddie, who plans and appraised itself of potential requirements for the Annual Report and chairs the Committee, Patrick fide Smedt, cyber security issues.
The Committee has Accounts: a process to determine the Danuta Gray, Michelle Healy, Sylvia also continued to monitor the interaction accuracy, consistency and clarity of Metayer and Angela Seymour-Jackson.
between the Internal Audit function and the the data and language: and a detailed All members served throughout the year external auditors, to monitor and review the review by all appropriate parties including except Danuta Gray who did not stand effectiveness of the external audit process external advisers.
A checklist of all the for re-election at the Companys AGM and to ensure that the Groups governance elements of the process was completed in June.
The most recent members, standards are maintained.
In 2018 the to document the process and cascaded Angela Seymour-Jackson and Sylvia Committee commissioned an external sign-off implemented through the Groups Metayer, have now had over 12 third party to conduct an assessment of management structure to provide assurance months experience as members of the the Companys Internal Audit function.
to the Committee that the appropriate Committee and add much to the work The review concluded that all areas were procedures had been undertaken by all of the Committee given their strong assessed as Good or Satisfactory and Group companies.
further details are provided at page 57.
1 Training of all members of the The Company's tax strategy was considered During 2018 the FRC reviewed the 2017 Committee takes place on a regular by the Committee and recommended for Annual Report and Accounts, reporting no 53 | Corporate Governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 significant issues, but noting some areas Risk and Internal Control Compliance for disclosure improvement which have been addressed in the 2018 Annual Report Ratification of principal risks Meeting with external auditor, and Accounts.
At the same time the FRC Internal Audit update and three Head of Internal Audit and inspected the 2017 audit performed by year strategy Company Secretary without Ernst & Young as external auditors, finding External review of effectiveness of Executive Directors no significant improvements but pointing the Internal Audit process Regulatory update to some limited improvements in the audit, Compliance which have been implemented by Ernst & IFRS 16 Leases Meeting with external auditor Young in the 2018 audit.
The Committee without Executive Directors discussed the FRC review and the areas October Meeting with Head of Internal for improvement with Ernst & Young and Audit without Executive Directors monitored their implementation.
Review of Financial Statements External Auditor Quarter 3 trading update The Committee has reviewed the External auditor effectiveness and Companys 2018 Annual Report and Risk and Internal Control rigour survey Accounts.
It provided comments that Culture assessment were incorporated into the Annual Report Reappointment of external Cyber risk and Accounts and has advised the Board auditor that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Engagement Letter Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced Regulatory update December and understandable and provides the Implications of IFRS 15 Revenue Review of Financial Statements information necessary to assess the and IFRS 16 Leases Companys performance, business model Review of 2018 Annual Report and strategy.
and Accounts process FRC Inspection of EY 2017 April Main activities of the Audit Audit Review of Financial Statements FRC Review of Annual Report Committee during 2018 Quarter 1 trading update and Accounts 2017 The Committee has an agreed, rolling Risk and Internal Control programme of agenda items to ensure that July Internal Audit update relevant matters are properly considered.
Approval of Internal Audit plan The list below summarises the key items Review of Financial Statements for 2019 considered by the Committee during Quarter 2 trading update the year.
Risk review and confirmation of principal risks August Crisis management plan review January Annual review of anti-bribery Review of Financial Statements Review of Financial Statements compliance Draft interim report Quarter 4 trading update External Auditor Risk and Internal Control Audit progress update report Internal Audit update March Compliance Confirmation of key risks Review of Financial Statements Year-end legislative and Update on Internal Audit Strategy Draft preliminary announcement procedural matters and 2017 Annual Report and External Auditor Tax and Treasury Accounts External auditors 2017 year end Review of Tax Strategy External auditors year-end management letter report Annual review of Treasury External auditors interim review Policy Going concern analysis Scope of the full year audit Viability Statement Regulatory update Interim review management letter Fair, balanced and of representation UK Corporate Governance understandable review Review of the external auditors Code 2018 Judgemental and Accounting fee and non-audit services fees issues Management letter of representation 1 The FRC stated that the scope of their review was based on the Companys 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Confirmation of External and was conducted by staff of the FRC who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
The review did not benefit from detailed knowledge of the Companys business or an understanding auditors Independence of the underlying transactions entered into and therefore their review does not provide assurance that the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts are correct in all material respects.
Corporate Governance | 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgement that may materially impact reported results as well as the clarity of disclosures, compliance with financial reporting standards and the relevant requirements around financial and governance reporting.
Details on accounting policies can be found on pages 91 to 95.
The significant issues and areas of judgement considered by the Committee during the year and how these were addressed were as follows: Significant issue How the Committee addressed the issue Revenue Context: Revenue recognition for permanent and temporary placements, with particular focus on period end cut off Recognition and appropriate accounting treatment in accordance with IFRS and Group accounting policies.
Revenue from permanent placements is derived from both retained assignments income recognised on completion of defined stages of work and non-retained assignments income recognised at the date an offer is accepted by a candidate and where a start date has been determined.
There is a risk that a candidate reverses their decision to take up a placement before the start date and as such the revenue recognised would be reversed.
A provision is made by management, based on past historical experience, for the proportion of those placements where this is expected to occur.
Revenue from temporary placements, which represents amounts billed for the services of temporary staff, including the salary cost of these staff, is recognised when the service has been provided.
Actions taken: As in previous years, the Committee assesses the Group's revenue recognition policies relative to IFRS and the sector to ensure they are appropriate, and challenges management on the internal control and compliance processes over revenue recognition, taking into account the views of Internal Audit and the external auditors.
In 2018, the Committee also satisfied itself that the implementation of IFRS 15 had been appropriately undertaken.
Conclusions and rationale: The Committee concluded that the approach to revenue recognition was consistent with the policies and the judgements made were appropriate.
The Committee discussed the methodology used to test the assumptions, estimates made by management in each of these areas and IFRS 15 implementation with Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditor.
55 | Corporate Governance Additional information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 the FRC Revised Ethical Standard for The performance and effectiveness of External Auditors external auditors, the Audit Committee the external auditor is also reviewed independence and has operated a more restrictive policy annually by the Committee.
This covers from 1 January 2017 which prohibits qualification, expertise, resources and effectiveness the external auditor from providing a reappointment as well as assurance The Committee monitors the objectivity, more extensive range of services which that there are no issues which could independence and effectiveness of the includes, inter alia, tax advice, tax adversely affect the external auditors external auditor.
The Company is mindful compliance services and global mobility independence and objectivity taking into of the provisions of the Code, best support.
All such services provided by account the relevant standards.
In this practice, the Competition and Market Ernst & Young LLP were transferred to respect the Committee reviewed the: Authority Audit Order 2014 and EU audit other service providers except in relation Robustness of the external auditors legislation in particular as regards audit to a role on the board of the statutory plan and its identification of key firm rotation and the provision of nonauditors in Italy, performed by Ernst risks: audit services.
& Young LLP that was transitioned to Approach to the agreed audit plan another provider in 2018 as intimated Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys and fulfilment of the agreed external in this report last year.
The total noncurrent external auditor, was appointed audit plan and any variations from audit fees in respect of these services in 2011 following a competitive tender the plan: for the year under review amounted to process.
In accordance with audit Robustness including the 1,500, of which the Audit Committee regulation, Ernst & Young LLP operate a audit's team's ability to challenge was aware and pre-approved.
No other policy of rotating the Audit Partner every management and perceptiveness non-audit services were provided by the five years.
The Audit Partner who had of the external auditor in handling external auditor.
The Audit Committee served as the Companys Audit Partner key accounting and audit reviewed the safeguards in place to deal since 2011 stepped down after the judgements including demonstrating with the independence threats from the completion of the 2015 year end audit.
professional scepticism and Italian role and concluded that Ernst & A new Audit Partner, Bob Forsyth, was independence: Young LLP remained independent.
Quality and content of reports Further, during the year under review, The Committee approved and provided to the Committee by the the Committee discussed and agreed implemented in 2014 a policy for the external auditor including reporting the scope of the year-end audit and tender of external audit services.
This on internal control: approved the audit fee of 810,000.
The policy provides that the Company will Feedback from management which Committee reviews the objectivity and retender the external audit at least every is ascertained from staff surveys independence of the external auditor and ten years and will change the external completed by staff involved in the has concluded this is safeguarded by: auditor at least every 20 years.
Thus, audit process: and the Company expects to tender the Obtaining assurances from the Communications in and outside external audit in respect of the 2021 external auditor that adequate of meetings, between the external year end during the course of 2020.
The policies and procedures exist within auditor and the Committee.
Committee considers it is in the best its firm to ensure that the firm interests of shareholders to commence and staff are independent of the Following a full evaluation of the external a competitive tender of external audit Group by reason of family, finance, auditor at the end of the 2018 audit, the services at this time as it is satisfied that employment, investment and Committee recommended to the Board the current external auditor remains business relationship other than in the reappointment of Ernst & Young independent and it favours retaining the normal course of business : LLP as Auditor of the Company at the continuity while a number of large Enforcing a policy of reviewing all forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
change programmes are ongoing, such cases where it is proposed that a as implementation of the final phase of Internal control and former employee of the external the roll-out of the global finance system.
auditor be employed by the Group risk management This position is subject to annual review in a senior management position or by the Audit Committee.
The Boards responsibilities for, and at Board level: their report on, risk management and The Committee considers that in 2018 it Monitoring the external auditors the systems of internal control and their has complied with the Competition and compliance with applicable UK effectiveness are set out in the Corporate Market Authority Audit Order 2014. ethical guidance on the rotation of Governance Report on pages 49 and audit partners: and The Committee regularly reviews its 50.
Enforcing a policy concerning the policy on the use of the external auditor On behalf of the Board the Committee provision of non-audit services by for non-audit services.
The policy reviewed the Groups risk assessment the external auditor.
prohibits the external auditor from procedures for identifying its principal providing certain services which could The Committee also considers the risks and its longer-term viability.
The give rise to independence threats such annual appointment of the external risk assessment takes account of all as computing tax provisions, payroll auditor by shareholders at the Annual risks, including environmental, social services, acting as an advocate, internal General Meeting to be a fundamental and governance matters, inherent in the audit and system design.
Corporate Governance | 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report strategy of the business and its plan.
These an independent assessment, in addition investigation is kept and is circulated to the procedures include regular reports to the to the ongoing internal assessment, of Committee on a regular basis.
During the Committee from the Director of Internal PageGroups internal audit processes year in question, no frauds of a significant Audit on the performance of the system of against the Institute of Internal Audits nature were reported.
internal control and on its effectiveness in International Professional Practice managing material risks and identifying any framework.
The Committee noted the Anti-Bribery and corruption and control failings or weaknesses.
conclusion from the review that all areas business ethics were assessed as Good or Satisfactory.
The Committee also reviews the Groups Of 64 areas tested 59 areas were deemed The Company has a Code of Conduct risk management process annually, with to conform, 5 partially conform, and overall which can be found on its website the outcome being reported to the Board.
performance was described as very strong.
This sets out the This, together with regular updates to The Committee has reviewed the action standards of behaviour by which all the Board on material risks, allows the plan to address the limited number of employees of the Group are bound and is Board to make the assessment on the partially conforming areas.
based on the Companys commitment to systems of internal control and the residual acting professionally, fairly and risk for the purpose of making its public The scope of work for the Internal Audit with integrity.
The risk process, together with function is agreed with the Committee the key risks and their indicators, have annually with the findings from internal The Group maintains a zero tolerance been identified and mitigating actions are audits being reported to the Executive approach against corruption.
It has an described in the Strategic Report on pages Board and the Audit Committee.
established anti-bribery and corruption 29 to 35.
Key performance indicators and Businesses are visited on a rotational policy, which includes guidance on the management incentives are highlighted for risk-based approach to assess the giving and receiving of gifts and hospitality.
the main financial, strategic and people effectiveness of controls to mitigate risks This policy applies throughout the Group.
risks in the Strategic Report on pages 17 to an acceptable level.
All major risks are The policy and the training of employees to 18. addressed in this process, including Group is regularly reviewed and updated when functions and change programmes as are required.
The training is undertaken by Where weaknesses have been identified those around governance, environmental all managers and all staff in risk areas in the internal control system for the and social related matters.
Actions to across the Group by means of review and mitigation of risks to an acceptable level, maintain and improve the effectiveness of presentation of standard Group-prepared plans to strengthen the control system are the control environment are agreed with training material.
Action plans in this respect are the Executive Board and are monitored regularly monitored until complete.
During A gifts and entertainments register is and reported to the Committee.
Risks the period under review there were no maintained to ensure transparency.
are also regularly reviewed and required control failings or weaknesses that resulted A review of compliance with the policy changes are made to the risk profile and, in unforeseen material losses.
is undertaken annually and reported to where necessary, to the activity of Internal the Committee.
The review undertaken During the year under review the Audit Audit.
All changes to the Internal Audit in 2018 showed there was a good Committee considered the requirements plan are agreed with the Chairman of the understanding of the issue and no of the new Corporate Governance Code Committee and reported to the Executive breaches were reported.
and ensured that emerging risks are being Board and the Committee.
Whistleblowing Committee evaluation Internal Audit activities The Committee takes its oversight duties The activities of the Committee were regarding whistleblowing very seriously During the year under review the reviewed as part of the Board evaluation and reviews the arrangements whereby Committee monitored and reviewed the process performed during the year under staff may, in confidence, raise concerns effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The 2018 evaluation process was about possible improprieties in financial To ensure there is breadth and depth of conducted internally and details of the reporting or other matters and ensuring risk and internal control experience to this outcome of the evaluation process, and the that these concerns are investigated and function, the Groups Internal Audit function areas of focus for 2019 can be found in the escalated as appropriate.
This is promoted comprises a Director of Internal Audit and Corporate Governance Report on page 49. in all regions by the Human Resources a team of internal auditors.
The Director of function and audited by Internal Audit.
The Internal Audit reports to the Chief Financial Fraud whistleblowing helpline is run by an external Officer on a day-to-day basis, but also third party and is available to all employees has a reporting line to the Chairman of The Committee reviews the procedures in the Group.
The helpline was utilised once the Audit Committee.
He also has direct for the prevention and detection of fraud in 2018 outside the UK for a non-financial access to the Committee and the Board.
Suspected cases of fraud matter and the Companys response was This ensures there is opportunity for frank must be reported to the Chief Financial reviewed by the Committee.
Officer and the Director of Internal Audit and investigated by operational During 2018, in line with best practice management and Internal Audit.
The guidelines, an external assessment Simon Boddie outcome of any investigation is reported to was conducted of our Internal Audit Chair of the Audit Committee the Committee.
A register of all suspected processes by the Chartered Institute of fraudulent activity and the outcome of any 5 March 2019 Internal Auditors.
The review provided 57 | Corporate Governance
