Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our Board of Directors Past Roles: David was a member of the Board of Taylor Nielson Sofres plc, the marketing services business, from 1999 to 2009, becoming Chief Executive Officer in 2006.
Before joining Taylor Nielson Sofres plc David held senior financial positions in Asprey plc, A. C. Nielsen Corporation and Federal Express Corporation.
David was also Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Berensden plc from March 2010 until September 2017.
From April 2011 to March 2019 he was a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of William Hill plc.
Other Current Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Huntsworth plc with effect from 1 January 2019 and Chairman of the Board of Huntsworth plc and Nomination Committee with effect from 6 March 2019.
Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2019 of Morgan Sindall Group plc.
David Lowden, Board Committees: Nomination Chairman Chairman Skills and Experience: Date of Appointment: Extensive experience in both general management and financial management Director Many years of operating within international businesses with cultural diversity August 2012 Strong strategic understanding Chairman Proven ability for delivering shareholder value December 2015 Strong financial, marketing and commercial skills Experienced non-executive in several sectors Contribution: The Companys long-term sustainability is safeguarded by having an effective chair of the Board and David Lowden successfully fulfils this role.
His experience is significant having held senior nonexecutive and chair positions across a range of listed companies.
The Board draws upon his experience and guidance regularly and his deep understanding of the business enables him to ensure the needs of the business are met across the range of strategic and governance matters affecting the Company.
Past Roles: Steve joined Michael Page in 1987 as a consultant with Michael Page Marketing and Sales.
He was responsible for setting up the London Marketing and Sales business and was promoted to Operating Director in 1990.
Having launched several new discipline businesses, he was appointed Managing Director of Michael Page Marketing and Sales in 1994.
Subsequently Steve took additional responsibility for several businesses.
He was promoted to the Board as Executive Director of UK Operations in February 2001 and subsequently to Managing Director of UK Operations in May 2005.
Steve was appointed Chief Executive Officer in April 2006.
Prior to joining PageGroup Steve spent four years at Johnson Matthey in Sales and Marketing as a qualified metallurgist.
Other Current Appointments: Non-Executive Director, Debenhams plc.
Member of the Corporate Steve Ingham, Partnership Board, Great Ormond Street Hospital.
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Board Committees: None Director Skills and Experience: Date of Appointment: Over 30 years service with the Group and recruitment industry Plc Board 13 years as a CEO of a FTSE 250 public company, with strong IR skills, delivering shareholder value February 2001 Strong entrepreneurial and strategic skills having initiated and grown many new global businesses Chief Executive Officer Extensive experience in business development and account management April 2006 Significant international experience including the emerging markets of SE Asia, China, Latin America and India Leadership of a global people business having seen PageGroup grow from 200 to over 7,000 employees Taken the Group through a restructure to ensure total global consistency of all operational support functions Experience in other sectors and industries having worked on the Boards of a major charity and retailer Awarded the Institute of Recruitment Professionals Lifetime Achievement Award in 2017 Contribution: Steve Inghams contribution is necessary to enable the Company to deliver its strategy to shareholders and its wider stakeholders.
He has unparalleled understanding of the business, culture and future goals of the Company.
These skills are gained by his extensive experience of working within the industry and for the organisation itself.
He has 30 years experience of the Company and the recruitment sector and has a strong record of delivering sustainable success for the Company over the last decade.
Corporate Governance | 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our Board of Directors Past Roles: Kelvin joined PageGroup plc in July 2006 as Group Financial Controller and Company Secretary.
He was appointed Acting Chief Financial Officer in October 2013.
He held the title of Company Secretary until December 2013.
In June 2014 Kelvin was appointed Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to joining the Group, Kelvin spent six years at Allied Domecq and three years at Unilever in a variety of finance functions.
He has significant international experience and has high levels of compliance, change management, large teams and systems experience, across almost every finance discipline.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant.
Other Current Appointments: None Board Committees: None Kelvin Stagg, Chief Financial Skills and Experience: Officer, Executive More than ten years in the Group with a detailed knowledge of the Groups operations Director Extensive experience in finance, audit and risk management Date of Appointment: June 2014 Significant international experience including roles in the UK, Continental Europe and Asia High levels of compliance, change management, large teams and systems experience, across almost every finance discipline Strong network of finance professionals Contribution: Kelvin Stagg is integral to the Companys long-term success as he manages the financial risks, reporting and planning of the business, contributes to the Companys strategy and oversees global delivery of all support services to the business including implementation of all large scale projects.
He has extensive experience of managing multi-discipline areas and having been employed for over 12 years at the Company, he understands the operation of the business at all levels.
Past Roles: Simon qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
He was Group Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc from 2005 until 2015.
Prior to that Simon held a variety of senior finance positions with Diageo over a 13-year career, latterly Finance Director of Key Markets.
Other Current Appointments: Chief Financial Officer, Coats Group plc.
Board Committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration Skills and Experience: CFO of FTSE 250 public company for over ten years Simon Boddie, Extensive experience in financial, audit and risk management Independent Many years of operating within international businesses with cultural diversity Non-Executive Director Emerging markets experience Date of Appointment: Strong strategic and commercial understanding September 2012 Broad industry experience, including consumer goods, distribution and manufacturing Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Contribution: Simon Boddies contribution to the Board and the Audit Committee can be summarised by reference to his thorough understanding of financial matters facing large listed global entities.
For over 10 years he has held executive director positions in global FTSE 250 businesses as a Chief Financial Officer and, as such, is ideally placed to ensure scrutiny and rigour in respect of financial reporting and internal and external controls.
43 | Corporate Governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Past Roles: Before joining Kerry Group plc, Michelle was Group People & Culture Officer for ISS World Services A S. Prior to this she has held a number of senior executive roles including Director, Group Integrated Change Programme at SABMiller plc and General Manager UK & Ireland for British American Tobacco plc, having previously undertaken a number of senior HR roles within the Group.
Michelles executive career spans four global listed companies and she has lived and worked in nine countries across Europe and Asia.
Other Current Appointments: Chief Human Resources Officer, Kerry Group plc Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Michelle Healy, Skills and Experience: Independent Non-Executive Extensive experience in global human resources leadership Director Extensive experience in leading and delivering organisational change and transformation Date of Appointment: Breadth and depth of leadership experience in global listed businesses in service, consumer and October 2016 business to business Strong strategic understanding Extensive experience in general management Contribution: The Companys long-term success is highly influenced by ensuring it has a well thought through human capital strategy.
It recognises its people are at the heart of everything it does, particularly as an organically grown business.
Michelle Healy offers the Board deep insight into its approach in this respect.
She has held a number of senior HR leadership roles while also having run businesses at an operational level.
Past Roles: Patrick spent 23 years at Microsoft during which time he founded the Benelux subsidiaries, led the development of its Western European business and served as Chairman of Microsoft for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Since leaving Microsoft in 2006, Patrick has served on the boards of a number of European public and private companies.
He was Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Victrex plc and Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Morgan Sindall plc.
He has deep knowledge of international markets and information technology, and experience as a non-executive in diverse industry sectors.
Other Current Appointments: Chairman Interim of KCOM Group plc: Non-Executive Director of Kodak Alaris Holdings Ltd and Non-Executive Chairman of GCI Management Services Ltd. Patrick fide Smedt, Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Senior Independent Skills and Experience: Director Extensive experience of technology and customer services Date of Appointment: August 2015 Experienced non-executive in several sectors Extensive experience in general management Many years of operating within international businesses with cultural diversity Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Leading and changing large businesses Contribution: Patrick fide Smedt brings extensive understanding of technology to the Board, a key consideration for any companys long-term success.
His experience at Microsoft and involvement with a range of technological industries in international markets is invaluable in the Boards decision making.
He understands large-scale transformation projects and can assist the Board in determining the benefits and threats posed by technologies in the sector.
Corporate Governance | 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our Board of Directors Past Roles: Sylvia has previously held a variety of finance and general management roles in companies operating in a number of sectors, including Mattel Inc. Vivendi SA, and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt & Co. Other Current Appointments: Chief Executive, Worldwide Corporate Services of Sodexo SA and member of the Sodexo Group Executive Committee.
Trustee of the Quebec-Labrador Foundation and member of the Research Orientation Committee of the Foundation of HEC Business School, Paris.
Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Skills and Experience: Extensive experience and understanding of international markets, including the USA, Europe, China, India, and South East Asia Sylvia Metayer, Extensive experience in general and financial management Independent Leading and delivering change Non-Executive Finance, HR, IT and Supply Chain management Director Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Date of Appointment: Strong strategic understanding September 2017 Contribution: Sylvia Metayer has significant experience working for international organisations in finance and general management leadership positions.
Her guidance and observations on the demands and challenges in the various international markets in which the Company operates strongly supports the Companys expansion and its ongoing success.
Further, her financial acumen adds additional strength and depth to the Companys strategic decision-making.
Past Roles: Angela has previously held Executive Director roles with Aegon UK, RAC Motoring Services Limited and Aviva UK Limited, and was Senior Advisor to Lloyds Banking Group insurance.
Prior to that Angela held senior marketing roles with Bluecycle.
com Limited, CGU Insurance plc, General Accident plc and the Norwich Union Insurance Group.
Angela has also served as a Non-Executive Director of esure plc.
Other Current Appointments: Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee at GoCompare.
com Group plc: Non-Executive Director at Janus Henderson Group plc and Rentokil Initial plc.
Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Skills and Experience: Angela SeymourWealth of experience in service focused organisations Jackson, Experienced executive and non-executive in several sectors Independent Strong marketing and commercial skills Non-Executive Strong strategic understanding Director Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing Date of Appointment: October 2017 Contribution: Angela Seymour-Jackson has held numerous senior executive marketing roles and non-executive director appointments in highly regulated environments.
She therefore provides key skills to the Board in respect of marketing and customer services which are significant areas of focus for the Company.
Her experience in the highly regulated industries means that Angela makes a valuable contribution as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Past Roles: Prior to this appointment Kaye was Chief Resourcing & Legal Officer at Legal & General Investment Management Limited.
Skills and Experience: Over 15 years experience in legal and company secretarial matters for public companies Extensive public company, compliance and corporate governance experience Senior legal counsel experience in FTSE 250 companies across different sectors Kaye Maguire, General Counsel & Company Secretary Date of Appointment: October 2018 45 | Corporate Governance
