Pantheon International Plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee Report I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 May 2018.
The Audit Committee comprises myself, To review and monitor the Auditors A. Valuation process and as Chairman, and the entire Board, with the independence and objectivity and the ownership of assets exception of Mr Swire.
effectiveness of the audit process: and Discussions have been held with the I am a qualified barrister with wide experience To provide a forum through which the Manager about the valuation process, of the investment management industry and Companys Auditor reports to the Board.
ownership of assets and the systems in of the investment trust sector.
It is felt by the The Audit Committee also reviews the place at Pantheon to ensure the accuracy Board that I am sufficiently qualified for the Managers whistleblowing procedures.
of the valuation of the Companys portfolio.
position of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr Melvin is a qualified Chartered Accountant The Audit Committee has direct access to The Audit Committee has received and contributes his knowledge and the Companys Auditor, Grant Thornton UK reassurances about the robustness experience to the Committee.
LLP Grant Thornton, and representatives of the Managers valuation system of Grant Thornton attend each Audit from Pantheon.
Audit Committee members consider that, Committee meeting.
individually and collectively, they are each B. Undrawn commitments independent and appropriately experienced As an investor in private equity, the to fulfil the role required within the sector Matters considered Company had outstanding commitments in which the Company operates.
The in the year to fund investments.
Approximately 20% constitution and performance of the Audit of these uncalled commitments relate to We met on three occasions during the year Committee is reviewed on a regular basis.
funds that are outside their investment ended 31 May 2018.
At those meetings, We meet at least three times a year, as periods and it is likely that a portion of the Audit Committee has: detailed on page 69, to review the these will not be drawn.
During the year, Reviewed and agreed the half year and Half-Yearly Report, to review the year-end the Manager undertook a detailed process year end portfolio valuation and the valuation of investments and to approve the to review and reconcile the undrawn net asset values: Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
commitments, and the results were discussed with the Audit Committee.
Reviewed the Companys financial The Audit Committee received assurances statements for the half year and year Role of the Audit Committee from Pantheon about the systems and end and made formal recommendations Clearly defined Terms of Reference have controls in place to track the undrawn to the Board: been established and agreed with the commitments as part of the valuation entry Reviewed the internal controls and risk Board.
The primary responsibilities of process.
The year-end balance of undrawn management systems of the Company the Audit Committee are: commitments was also reviewed by the and its third party service providers: Auditor as part of the year-end audit.
To monitor the integrity of the financial Agreed the audit plan and fees with statements, the financial reporting C. Maintenance of investment the Auditor, including the principal process and the accounting policies trust status areas of focus: of the Company: The Manager and Administrator have Reviewed the Companys deposit takers To review the effectiveness of the internal reported to the Committee to confirm and banking arrangements: control environment of the Company continuing compliance with the and its reporting processes and to Reviewed the whistleblowing policy of requirements for maintaining investment monitor adherence to best practice in the Manager: and trust status.
The position is also discussed corporate governance: with the Auditor as part of the audit process.
Reviewed the cybersecurity To make recommendations to the Board preparedness of the Companys D. Internal controls in relation to the re-appointment of the third party service providers.
Auditor and to approve the Auditors The Audit Committee has reviewed and The principal issues considered by the remuneration and terms of engagement, updated, where appropriate, the Companys Committee were: including scope of work: risk matrix.
This document is reviewed by the Audit Committee every six months.
The Audit Committee are satisfied with the extent, Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 75 frequency and quality of the reporting of the carried out by the Companys Auditor the audit out to tender is considered by the Managers monitoring to enable the Audit unless there is a conflict of interest or Audit Committee on a regular basis.
Committee to assess the degree of control someone else is considered to have The Company is aware that, as a result of of the Company and the effect with which risk more relevant experience.
the EU Audit Directive and Regulation, is managed and mitigated.
The Audit Non-audit services amounting to companies where the auditor was Committee has received reports on internal 33,000 were provided during the year appointed on or before 16 June 1994 cannot controls from each of its service providers.
ended 31 May 2018 31 May 2017: 32,000, renew or enter into an audit engagement No incidences of significant control failings or relating to the review of the half year and with the auditor that extends beyond 2020. weaknesses have been identified during the year-end net asset value calculations year ended 31 May 2018, within the Company The Audit Committee has recommended and the review of the Half-Yearly Report.
or its third party suppliers.
the re-appointment of Grant Thornton The ratio of non-audit to audit fees is 52%.
on each occasion since their initial The Company does not have an internal The Audit Committee believes that it is appointment.
The Audit Partner for the audit function as most of its day-to-day appropriate for the Companys Auditor to Company has been rotated in accordance operations are delegated to third parties, provide these services to the Company.
with APB Ethical Standard 3: Mr Paul Flatley all of whom have their own internal control The Audit Committee has received has been the Audit Partner for the Company procedures.
The Audit Committee assurances from the Auditor that its since July 2016, and including the year discussed whether it would be appropriate independence is not compromised by ended 31 May 2018.
Rotating the Audit to establish an internal audit function, the supply of these services.
Partner provides a fresh perspective on the and agreed that the existing system of audit responsibilities for the Company.
monitoring and reporting by third parties Effectiveness of External remains appropriate and sufficient.
The Audit Committee has discussed Audit Process with Grant Thornton its objectivity, E. Share Class Consolidation The Audit Committee meets at least twice a independence and experience in the year with the Auditor.
The Auditor provides a investment trust sector.
The Audit Committee reviewed the planning report in advance of the annual accounting treatment of the share class Grant Thornton has indicated its willingness audit, a report on the annual audit, and a consolidation undertaken during the year, to continue in office as Auditor of the report on their review of the halfyear including the valuation of the associated Company.
Following its review, the financial statements.
The Audit Committee ALN and relevant financial disclosures.
Committee considers that individually and has an opportunity to question and challenge collectively the Auditor is appropriately the Auditor in respect of each of these experienced to fulfil the role required and has External Audit reports.
In addition, at least once a year, the recommended their re-appointment to the Audit Committee has an opportunity to The Audit Committee monitors and reviews Board.
A resolution for their re-appointment discuss any aspect of the Auditors work with the effectiveness of the external audit will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
the Auditor in the absence of the Investment process for the publication of the Annual Manager.
After each audit, the Audit CMA Order Report and makes recommendations to the Committee reviews the audit process and Board on the re-appointment, remuneration The Company complied throughout the considers its effectiveness.
and terms of engagement of the Auditor.
year ended 31 May 2018 with the provisions Continuing Appointment of of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, Audit fees issued by the Competition and Markets the Auditor The audit fee incurred for the review of Authority CMA Order.
Grant Thornton, through Robson Rhodes the 2018 annual report and accounts As a result of the work performed, the Audit with which it merged in 2007, has been the was 64,000 31 May 2017: 43,000.
Committee has concluded that the Annual Companys Auditor since inception of the The Audit Committee continues to monitor Report for the year ended 31 May 2018, Company in 1987.
A tender process for the the level of audit fees carefully.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Auditor has not been conducted since this understandable and provides the information Non-audit fees Independence time but will be undertaken by the financial necessary for shareholders to assess the year ending 31 May 2020.
The Company and Objectivity of the Auditor Companys position and performance, intends to commence the tender process The Audit Committee reviews the scope business model and strategy, and has during the Summer of 2019.
As part of its and nature of all proposed non-audit reported on these findings to the Board.
review of the continuing appointment of the services before engagement, to ensure Auditor, the Committee considers the Ian Barby that the independence and objectivity of length of tenure of the audit firm, its fees Audit Committee Chairman the Auditor are safeguarded.
The Boards and independence, along with any matters policy is that non-audit services may be 7 August 2018 raised during each audit.
