Pantheon International Plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Statement on Corporate Governance The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and the Directors are accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to: Brief biographical details of the Directors, Statement of Compliance including details of their other directorships The role of a chief executive: The Board of PIP has considered the and significant commitments, can be found principles and recommendations of the Executive directors remuneration: and on pages 60 and 61.
AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC The need for an internal audit function.
The appointment of a new Director is always Code, by reference to the AIC Corporate made on the basis of a candidates merits Governance Guide for Investment For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and the skills experience identified by the Companies AIC Guide published in July the Board considers these provisions are Board as being desirable to complement 2016.
The AIC Code, as explained by the not relevant to the position of the Company, those of the existing Directors.
AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set being an externally managed investment out in the UK Corporate Governance Code company.
The Company has therefore The Company does not have a specific published in April 2016 UK Code, as well not reported further in respect of diversity policy, but the Board are satisfied as setting out additional principles and these provisions.
that consideration is given to the diversity of recommendations on issues that are of the Board when making a new appointment.
specific relevance to investment trusts.
A formal process exists for the selection of Viability Statement The Board considers that reporting against new Directors to the Company and the level the principles and recommendations of the The Viability Statement can be found on of remuneration of the Directors has been AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide page 23. set in order to attract individuals of a calibre which incorporates the UK Code, provides appropriate to the future development of better information to shareholders.
A formal induction process The Board of Directors The Financial Reporting Council FRC, has been established for new Directors the UKs independent regulator for The Board consists of seven Non-Executive which involves the provision of a full corporate reporting and governance, Directors, and the Company has no induction pack containing relevant responsible for the UK Code, has endorsed employees.
The Board is responsible for information about the Company.
the AIC Code and the AIC Guide.
The terms all matters of direction and control of the On appointment to the Board, Directors of the FRCs endorsement mean that AIC Company and no one individual has are fully briefed as to their responsibilities Members who report against the AIC unfettered powers of decision.
and are given the opportunity to talk to the Code and the AIC Guide meet fully their The Board seeks to ensure that it has the relevant executive members of the Manager obligations under the UK Code and the appropriate balance of skills, experience, throughout their terms in office.
related disclosure requirements contained ages and length of service amongst its in the Listing Rules.
The terms and conditions of the members.
The Directors possess a wide appointment of the Non-Executive Directors A copy of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide range of business and financial expertise are set out in letters of appointment, copies can be obtained via the AIC website, relevant to the direction of the Company, of which are available for inspection at the www.
A copy of the UK Code and consider themselves as committing registered office of the Company and will be can be obtained at www.
sufficient time to the Companys affairs.
None of the Directors The Company has complied with the has a contract of service with the Company.
recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, to the extent that they are relevant to the Companys business, throughout the year ended 31 May 2018.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 69 Board Operation The Directors of the Company meet at regular Board meetings and additional meetings and telephone meetings are arranged as necessary.
Nine scheduled meetings were held during the year to 31 May 2018.
Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Scheduled Audit Committee Management Engagement Nomination Committee Board meetings meetings Committee meetings meetings Number Number Number Number entitled to Number entitled to Number entitled to Number entitled to Number attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended Sir Laurie Magnus 9 9 3 3 1 1 1 1 S. E. Nicklin 9 8 3 3 1 1 1 1 I. C. S. Barby 9 9 3 3 1 1 1 1 R. M. Swire 9 8 n a n a n a n a 1 0 D. L. Melvin 9 9 3 3 1 1 1 1 J. D. Burgess 9 7 3 2 1 0 1 0 J.
B. H. C. A Singer 9 8 3 3 1 1 1 1 During the year and in order to review the arranged a Directors and Officers Liability 2016.
Sir Laurie Magnus is deemed by effectiveness of the Board as a whole, its insurance policy which includes cover his fellow independent Board members to Committees and individual Directors, for legal expenses.
He considers himself to including the independence of each have sufficient time to commit to the The Companys Articles of Association Director, the Company implemented a Companys affairs.
take advantage of statutory provisions to thorough appraisal process, encompassing indemnify the Directors against certain Ms Susannah Nicklin was appointed Senior both quantitative and qualitative measures liabilities owed to third parties even where Independent Director of the Company at the of performance in respect of the Board and such liability arises from conduct conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2016. its Committees.
The appraisal process was amounting to negligence or breach of duty conducted by the Chairman by way of an or of trust.
In addition, under the terms of evaluation questionnaire and interviews.
Directors Independence appointment of each Director, the Company The appraisal of the Chairman followed the has agreed, subject to the restrictions and In accordance with the Listing Rules same process and was carried out by the limitations imposed by statute and by the that apply to closed-ended investment Board as a whole under the leadership Companys Articles of Association, to entities, and taking into consideration the of Ms Susannah Nicklin the Senior indemnify each Director against all costs, AIC Code, the Board has reviewed the Independent Director.
The Board can expenses, losses and liabilities incurred in status of its individual Directors and the confirm that it has the appropriate balance execution of his her office as Director or Board as a whole.
of skills, experience, ages and length of otherwise in relation to such office.
Save for service amongst its members.
Following Sir Laurie Magnus, Ms Nicklin, Mr Melvin, such indemnity provisions in the Companys the Companys inclusion in the FTSE 250 Mr Singer and Mr Burgess are considered Articles of Association and in the Directors Index the Board is required to conduct to be independent in both character terms of appointment, there are no an externally facilitated performance and judgement.
qualifying third party indemnity provisions evaluation at least every third year and in force.
Mr Barby was first elected in 2005.
The will give future consideration to this Board considers that the independence in requirement and report to Shareholders character and judgement of Mr Barby is in due course.
Chairman and Senior not compromised by his length of service The Board has formalised arrangements Independent Director but, on the contrary, is strengthened by under which the Directors, in the continuity and experience.
Therefore, the The Board appointed Sir Laurie Magnus furtherance of their duties, may take Board deems Mr Barby to be independent.
as Chairman of the Company at the independent professional advice at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in Companys expense.
The Company has Pantheon International Plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Until 12 October 2011 Mr Swire was a formal meetings.
The Manager ensures that Board Responsibilities director of Pantheon Ventures Limited, Directors have timely access to all relevant and Relationship with a parent undertaking of Pantheon Ventures management, financial and regulatory the Manager UK LLP, the Companys Manager, and was information to enable informed decisions to formerly a director and Senior Partner of be made and contacts the Board as required The Board is responsible for the Pantheon Holdings Limited.
He is currently for specific guidance on particular issues.
determination and implementation of a director of a number of funds managed by Pantheon has discretion to manage the the Companys investment policy and for the Pantheon Group.
He is therefore not assets of the Company in accordance with monitoring compliance with the Companys considered to be independent under the the Companys investment objectives and objectives.
At each Board meeting the terms of the AIC Code, however the Board policies, subject to certain additional Directors follow a formal agenda to review believes that his skills and experience are a investment restrictions which may be the Companys investments and all other valuable asset.
amended by the Company from time to time important issues, such as asset allocation, with the consent of the Manager.
The gearing policy, corporate strategic Accordingly, six of the seven Board additional investment restrictions currently issues, cash management, peer group members are considered by the Board to imposed on the Manager are as follows: performance, marketing and shareholder be independent and thus the majority relations, investment outlook, revenue of the Board comprises independent At the time of making an investment, forecasts and outlook, to ensure that Non-Executive Directors.
the aggregate of all amounts committed control is maintained over the Companys by the Company in respect of investments affairs.
The Board regularly considers its excluding all amounts paid pursuant to Re-appointment of Directors overall strategy and monitors the share such commitments and including any price and level of discount.
such commitments in respect of the Following the Companys inclusion in investment to be made shall not exceed the FTSE 250 Index and in accordance The Board is responsible for the investment 300% of the available cash and loan with the UK Code, the Board is proposing policy and strategic and operational resources of the Company without the that all of the Directors will be subject to decisions of the Company and for ensuring prior approval of the Board: annual re-election at the 2018 AGM.
that the Company is run in accordance with Accordingly, resolutions to re-elect all all regulatory and statutory requirements.
No direct or indirect investment in a single Directors are contained with the Notice These procedures have been formalised in company shall form more than 5% of the of AGM on page 114. a schedule of matters reserved for decision gross asset value of the Company at the by the full Board, which has been adopted time the investment is made: The Nomination Committee has reviewed for all meetings.
These matters include: the performance of each Director retiring at The amount invested including amounts the forthcoming AGM.
Following a formal The maintenance of clear investment committed for investment in respect performance evaluation, the Nomination objectives, investment strategy and risk of a single fund shall not exceed 10% of Committee members recommend that management policies, changes to which the aggregate of the gross asset value shareholders vote for the re-election of each require Board approval: of the Company and the aggregate of these Directors as they believe that their outstanding investment commitments The monitoring of the business activities performance continues to be effective, of the Company at the time the of the Company, including investment that they demonstrate commitment to investment is made: performance and annual budgeting: and their roles as Non-Executive Directors of The prior approval of the Board is required the Company and that they have actively Review of matters delegated to for an investment including investment contributed during meetings throughout the Manager, Administrator or commitments in respect of a single the year.
secondary interest in an existing fund Before voting, shareholders are requested The management of the Companys assets or a portfolio of secondary interests in to note that, in the opinion of the other is delegated to Pantheon.
At each Board existing funds and or direct investments members of the Nomination Committee, meeting, a representative of Pantheon is in in one or more companies exceeding each of the retiring Directors has many attendance to present verbal and written 3% of the net asset value of the Company years relevant experience of UK private reports covering its activity, the portfolio at the time the investment is made: and equity and the investment trust industry and investment performance over the Direct investment of 1% or more in which is of great value to the Company and preceding period.
Ongoing communication respect of a single company requires the its Board.
with the Board is maintained between prior approval of the Board.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 71 The Manager has also agreed that it will to be attached to such authorisations.
Audit Committee as he provides a obtain the prior approval of the Board in The process in place for authorising valuable contribution to the deliberations relation to any primary investment in a new potential conflict of interest has operated of the Committee.
fund which is made otherwise than on a effectively during the year.
Mr Melvin is also a qualified Chartered pro-rata basis with other Pantheon clients The Directors are able to impose limits Accountant and contributes his knowledge investing in the same fund and in relation or conditions when giving authorisation and experience to the Audit Committee.
to any investment in a vehicle managed if they think this is appropriate in the by a member of the Pantheon Group, other The Audit Committee met on three circumstances.
A register of potential than holding, special purpose and feeder occasions during the year ended 31 May conflicts is maintained by the Company vehicles where no fee is charged by the 2018.
It is intended that the Committee will Secretary and is reviewed at each Board Pantheon Group.
continue to meet at least three times a year, meeting, to ensure that any authorised to review the Half Yearly Report, to review The Board determines the parameters of conflicts remain appropriate.
Directors the year-end valuation of investments and investment strategy and risk management are required to confirm at these meetings to approve the Companys Annual Report policies within which the Manager can whether there has been any change to and Accounts.
exercise judgement and sets the investment their position.
and risk management strategies in relation The Report of the Audit Committee can be The Directors must also comply with the to currency exposure.
The Company found on pages 74 and 75.
The Chairman of statutory rules requiring company directors Secretary and Manager prepare briefing the Audit Committee will be present at the to declare any interest in an actual or notes for Board consideration on matters AGM to answer any questions relating proposed transaction or arrangement of relevance, for example changes to the to the financial statements.
Companys economic and financial environment, statutory and regulatory The above process for authorising potential Management Engagement changes and corporate governance conflicts of interest has operated effectively Committee best practice.
The Management Engagement Committee comprises all the independent Institutional Investors Committees of the Board Non-Executive Directors and is chaired Use of Voting Rights The Board has appointed a number of by Sir Laurie Magnus.
The Management Committees, as set out below, to which The Company has delegated the exercise Engagement Committee met on one certain Board functions have been of its voting rights to the Manager.
Pantheon occasion during the year under review.
Each of these Committees has has a policy of advising its clients to vote The Board keeps the performance of the formal written terms of reference which on all corporate actions in relation to Manager under continual review.
In addition, clearly define their responsibilities and investments, and does this on behalf of in accordance with the requirements of the these can be inspected at the registered the Company.
Pantheon consults with the AIC Code, the Management Engagement office of the Company and viewed on the Directors of the Company in the case of any Committee reviews the performance of Companys website www.
corporate action where either there is a the Managers obligations under the conflict of interest between PIP and other Management Agreement and considers Pantheon clients, or where for any reason Audit Committee the need for any variation to the terms of the proposed voting is inconsistent with the this Agreement on an annual basis.
The Audit Committee comprises the advice given to Pantheons other clients.
The Management Engagement Committee whole Board with the exception of Mr Swire.
then makes a recommendation to the Mr Barby, the Chairman of the Audit Board about the continuing appointment Conflicts of Interest Committee, is a qualified barrister with wide of the Manager under the terms of the experience of the investment management The Articles of Association permit Management Agreement.
industry and of the investment trust sector.
the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, It is felt by the Committee that he is The Management Engagement Committee to authorise situations where a Director has sufficiently qualified for the position of also reviews annually the performance of an interest that conflicts, or may possibly Chairman of the Audit Committee.
the Company Secretary, the Custodian, conflict, with the interests of the Company.
the Depository and the Registrar and any There is in place a formal system for the Sir Laurie Magnus has over 35 years of matters concerning their respective Board to consider authorising such investment banking experience and it is agreements with the Company.
conflicts, whereby the Directors who have considered appropriate for the Chairman no interest in the matter decide whether of the Company to be a member of the to authorise the conflict and any conditions Pantheon International Plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Statement on Corporate Governance continued The Board keeps the performance of the Remuneration Committee Internal Control Manager under continual review, and the Assessment Process As the Company has no employees and the Management Engagement Committee Board is composed solely of Non-Executive carries out an annual review of the Regular risk assessments and reviews of Directors, it is not considered necessary to Managers performance and the terms of internal controls and the Companys risk have a Remuneration Committee.
It is the the Management Agreement.
The ongoing appetite are undertaken by the Board in responsibility of the Board as a whole to review of the Manager includes activities the context of the Companys overall determine and approve Directors fees, and performance over the course of the investment objective.
The Board, through following proper consideration, having year and a review against the Companys delegation to the Audit Committee, has regard to the industry generally, the role that peer group.
The Board is of the opinion that undertaken a robust assessment and individual Directors fulfil in respect of Board it is in the interests of shareholders to review of the principal risks facing the and Committee responsibilities, the time continue the appointment.
Full details are on pages 20 to 22. committed to the Companys affairs and for this view are that the investment The review covers the key business, remuneration levels generally within the performance is satisfactory and the operational, compliance and financial risks investment trust sector.
The Chairmans Manager is well placed to continue to facing the Company.
In arriving at its remuneration is decided and approved by manage the assets of the Company judgement of what risks the Company the Board under the leadership of the according to the Companys strategy.
faces, the Board has considered the Senior Independent Director.
Companys operations in the light of the following factors: Detailed information on the remuneration Nomination Committee arrangements for the Directors of the The nature and extent of risks which it The Nomination Committee comprises Company can be found in the Directors regards as acceptable for the Company to all independent Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 79. bear within its overall business objective: and is chaired by Sir Laurie Magnus.
The threat of such risks becoming Mr Swire stepped down as a member of Internal Control Review a reality: the Committee on 26 July 2018.
The Directors acknowledge that they are The Companys ability to reduce The role of the Nomination Committee is to responsible for the Companys risk the incidence and impact of risk undertake the formal process of reviewing management and systems of internal on its performance: the balance, effectiveness and diversity control and for reviewing their of the Board and considers succession The cost to the Company and benefits effectiveness.
planning, identifying the skills and expertise related to the review of risk and needed to meet the future challenges and An ongoing process, in accordance with associated controls of the Company: and opportunities facing the Company and the guidance provided by the FRC on Risk The extent to which third parties operate those individuals who might best provide Management, Internal Control and Related the relevant controls.
The Nomination Committee, as and Finance and Business Reporting has been background the Board has split the when necessary, makes recommendations established for identifying, evaluating and review into four sections reflecting the to the Board with regard to the criteria managing risks faced by the Company.
nature of the risks being addressed.
for future Board appointments and the This process, together with key procedures methods of selection.
It also considers established with a view to providing The sections are as follows: and reviews the appointment of a Senior effective financial control, has been in Corporate strategy: Independent Director, membership of the place throughout the year and up to the Audit Committee, and the re-appointment date the financial statements were Published information and compliance of those Directors standing for re-election approved.
Full details of the principal risks with laws and regulations: at AGMs.
and uncertainties faced by the Company Relationship with service providers: and can be found on pages 20 to 22.
The Nomination Committee is also Investment and business activities.
responsible for assessing the time The risk management process and systems commitment required for each Board of internal control are designed to manage, appointment and ensuring that the present rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to incumbents have sufficient time to achieve the Companys objectives.
It should undertake them and for reviewing the be recognised that such systems can only Directors performance appraisal process.
provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 73 Given the nature of the Companys activities The Directors of the Company clearly Dialogue with Shareholders and the fact that most functions are define the duties and responsibilities of Communication with shareholders is sub-contracted, the Directors have obtained their agents and advisors in the terms given a high priority by the Board and the information from key third party suppliers of their contracts.
The appointment of Manager, and all Directors are available regarding the controls operated by them.
agents and advisors is conducted by the to enter into dialogue with shareholders.
To enable the Board to make an appropriate Board after consideration of the quality All shareholders are encouraged to attend risk and control assessment, the of the parties involved: the Board and vote at the AGM, during which the information and assurances sought from monitors their ongoing performance Board and the Manager are available to third parties include the following: and contractual arrangements: discuss issues affecting the Company Details of the control environment: Mandates for authorisation of investment and shareholders have the opportunity transactions and expense payments are to address questions to the Manager, Identification and evaluation of risks and set by the Board: and the Board and the Chairmen of the control objectives: Boards Committees.
At each AGM a The Board reviews detailed financial Assessment of the communication presentation is made by the Manager information produced by the Manager procedures: and to all shareholders present.
and the Company Secretary on a Assessment of the control regular basis.
There is regular dialogue with institutional procedures operated.
shareholders and a structured programme The Company does not have an internal of shareholder presentations by the There were no significant matters of audit function.
All of the Companys Manager to institutional investors takes concern identified in the Boards review management functions are delegated to place following publication of the Annual of the internal controls of its third party independent third parties whose controls and Half-Yearly results.
A detailed list of the suppliers.
Further details can be found are reviewed by the Board.
It is therefore Companys shareholders is reviewed at on page 72. felt that there is no need for the Company each Board meeting.
to have an internal audit function.
This need The key procedures which have been is reviewed periodically.
The Annual and Half Yearly Reports of established to provide effective internal the Company are prepared by the Board financial controls are as follows: In accordance with guidance issued and its advisers to present a full and to directors of listed companies, the Investment management is provided by readily understandable review of the Directors have carried out a review of the Pantheon Ventures UK LLP.
effectiveness of the various systems is responsible for the implementation of of internal controls as operated by the Copies are dispatched to shareholders the overall investment policy and Companys main service providers by mail and are also available on the monitors the action of the Manager during the year and found there to be Companys website: www.
at regular Board meetings: no matters of concern.
The Company always responds to letters BNP Paribas Securities Services has been from shareholders.
Shareholders wishing appointed as Depositary.
Custody of to communicate directly with the Board Company Secretary assets is also undertaken by BNP Paribas should contact the Company Secretary at Securities Services as the Companys The Board has direct access to the advice the registered office shown on page 123, Custodian for equities and bonds: and services of the Company Secretary, who will arrange for the relevant Board Link Alternative Fund Administrators member to contact them.
The provision of administration, Limited, who is responsible for ensuring accounting and company secretarial On behalf of the Board that Board and Committee procedures duties is the responsibility of Link are followed and that applicable regulations Sir Laurie Magnus Alternative Fund Administrators Limited: are complied with.
Chairman The duties of investment management, The Company Secretary is also responsible 7 August 2018 accounting and custody of assets are to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of segregated.
The procedures of the information and reports and for ensuring individual parties are designed to that statutory obligations of the Company complement one another: are met.
