B3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE B3.1 Governance framework The Board of Directors is responsible for overall Group strategy and for the delivery of that strategy within a robust corporate governance and corporate responsibility framework.
That framework is described in the following pages.
The Board is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the FRC in April 2016 the Code and which is publicly available at www.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2018 the Company complied with the principles and provisions of the Code except for a short period, as noted below, while awaiting regulatory approvals.
The Board has considered the new edition of the Code, published in July 2018, which is applicable to the Company from 1 October 2019 and will make any necessary and appropriate amendments to its practices and procedures.
Stakeholders The Board, in its deliberations and decision-making processes takes into account the views of the Groups stakeholders and, where applicable, considers the impact of those decisions on the communities and environment within which the Group operates.
While good corporate governance is important to the Board, so too is maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct in all of the Groups operations, and management of conduct risk is a key part of the risk management framework.
Section A5 sets out information on corporate responsibility including the Groups people policies and engagement with employees, its involvement in industry initiatives, its support for the community and its environmental, social and conduct impacts.
The People Director, and the executive directors, report to the Board regularly on the views of the Groups employees and the impact of new projects on the workforce is taken into account.
Regard is had to the impact of principal strategic decisions on employees, for example, due diligence on potential acquisitions will consider remuneration packages in the target in comparison to Group employees.
Performance on the integration of employees of acquired entities, post-acquisition, will be reported at board level.
A number of its brokers, contractors and other suppliers are of significant importance to the Groups operations and a close relationship is maintained, and reported to the Board, to help ensure that the Group runs effectively.
The Group also endeavours to maintain an open and transparent relationship with its various regulators, including the PRA and FCA.
Its relationship with HMRC and the principles it applies to its tax affairs are described in Section A5.4.
The Group maintains a whistleblowing process to enable employees or other stakeholders to raise concerns anonymously.
This is described further in section B4.6.
Leadership The schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which was reviewed during the year, details the key matters for which the Board is responsible including: The Groups values and standards Its strategic aims and objectives Approval of major capital projects and material acquisitions and disposals Approval of annual operational and capital expenditure budgets Approval of the Companys dividend and corporate governance policies Agreeing the Groups risk appetite Determining the remuneration policy for the executive directors PAGE 70 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts All directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings.
Currently the Board consists of the Chairman, three executive directors, six independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
At the start of the year the Board included seven independent non-executive directors, however, Alan Fletcher ceased to be considered independent in February 2018 on the ninth anniversary of his appointment and consequently ceased to be a member of any board committees.
All the directors bring a broad and valuable range of experience to the Company and further details of this together with other biographical details are set out in Section B2.
Throughout the year the independent non-executive directors have formed the majority of the Board and consequently, the balance between independent and non-independent directors has been appropriate.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and CEO is clearly established, set out in writing, regularly revised and agreed by the Board.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the Board, including the Senior Independent Director Fiona Clutterbuck until June 2018 and subsequently Peter Hartill.
This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in the biographical details in Section B2.
The Board has agreed a policy for managing conflicts and a process to identify and authorise any conflicts which might arise, which was recently updated.
At each meeting of the Board and its committees actual or potential conflicts of interest in respect of any director are reviewed.
Code compliance During the year under review there was a short period when the Company was not fully in compliance with the provisions of the Code.
This occurred while regulatory approvals for various appointments were awaited.
The provisions which the Company did not comply with, and the periods of non-compliance were: From 10 May 2018 until 5 June 2018 there was no Senior Independent Director Code provision A.
4.1 From 10 May 2018 until 19 June 2018 the Chairman of the Board was also Chairman of Remuneration Committee Code provision D. 2.1 and From 10 May 2018 until 5 June 2018 there were only two independent non-executive directors on the Remuneration Committee Code provision D. 2.1 During the period when the Company was not in compliance with the Code provisions relating to remuneration committees, no meetings of the Remuneration Committee were scheduled or held.
Board Committees The Board operates through a number of committees covering certain specific matters, illustrated in the chart below.
Board Committee structure Board of Directors Risk and Audit Disclosure Nomination Remuneration Compliance Transaction Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee RCC Committee Asset and Conduct and Liability Compliance Credit Model Risk Operational Risk Committee ALCO Committee CCC Committee Committee MRC Committee ORC PAGE 71 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Summarised information on each of the board committees is set out below.
Committee Audit Remuneration Risk and Compliance Nomination Chair From 1 October 2017 P J N Hartill F J Clutterbuck F F Williamson R G Dench To from 19 June 2018 10 May 2018 To 30 September 2018 P J N Hartill H R Tudor F F Williamson F J Clutterbuck Minimum number of meetings 3 3 4 2 Further information Section B4 Section B5 Section B6 Section B3.2 Members Independent Audit Remuneration Risk and Compliance Nomination non-executive F J Clutterbuck Until 10 May 2018 Until 10 May 2018 Yes Yes Yes R G Dench No No Until 10 May 2018 Until 10 May 2018 Until 10 May 2018 N S Terrington No No No No Until 20 September 2018 A K Fletcher Until 24 February 2018 Until 24 February 2018 Until 24 February 2018 Until 24 February 2018 Until 24 February 2018 P J N Hartill Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes H R Tudor Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes P J Newberry Yes Yes From 5 June 2018 Yes Yes B A Ridpath Yes Yes No Yes No F F Williamson Yes Yes No Yes No G H Yorston Yes Yes No Yes No The Board has considered the requirements of the Code with respect to the composition of audit committees and is satisfied that all members of the Audit Committee have recent and relevant financial experience and that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
The Disclosure Committee assists in the design, implementation and evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures: monitors compliance with the Companys disclosure controls: considers the requirements for announcement: and overall determines the disclosure treatment of material market information.
The Committees members are the Chairman, CEO and CFO, of which any two can form a quorum.
Executive committees Five main executive committees, the Asset and Liability Committee ALCO, the Credit Committee, the Model Risk Committee MRC, the Operational Risk Committee ORC and the Conduct and Compliance Committee CCC, consisting of executive directors and appropriate senior employees, report to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The Operational Risk and Compliance Committee was split during the year to ensure that a greater focus could be put into both areas.
All of these committees are described further in the Risk Management Section B6.
In addition, the Transaction Committee, which reports directly to the Board, has been established for a number of years, but meetings are called as and when required and have occurred more frequently this year due to the establishment of the Groups Structured Lending business.
The Committee consists of the CEO and the CFO, the Director of Treasury and Structured Finance and the CRO, any two of which can form a quorum, but that quorum should include either the CEO or CFO.
The Committee meets to consider potential acquisitions or disposals of loan assets by the Idem Capital business, where these are not large enough to require consideration at the Board, and also to approve, within delegated limits, wholesale term and or revolving credit facilities proposed by the Groups Structured Lending operation.
All board committees operate within defined terms of reference and sufficient resources are made available to them to undertake their duties.
The terms of reference of the committees are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The attendance of individual directors at the regular meetings of the Board and its committees in the year is set out below, with the number of meetings each was eligible to attend shown in brackets.
Directors who are unable to attend meetings receive the papers and any comments from them are reported to the relevant meeting.
Directors have attended a number of ad hoc meetings during the year in addition to the regular Board meetings and have contributed to discussions outside of the regular meeting calendar.
PAGE 72 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Director Board Audit Risk and Compliance Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Robert G Dench 6 6 - 3 3 2 2 2 2 Fiona J Clutterbuck 10 10 2 2 4 4 4 4 3 3 Nigel S Terrington 10 10 - - - 3 3 Richard J Woodman 10 10 - - - - John A Heron 9 10 - - - - Alan K Fletcher 10 10 1 1 2 2 1 1 3 3 Peter J N Hartill 10 10 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 Hugo R Tudor 10 10 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 Patrick J Newberry 9 10 4 5 4 4 1 2 3 4 Barbara A Ridpath 9 10 4 5 4 4 - - Finlay F Williamson 10 10 5 5 4 4 - - Graeme H Yorston 10 10 5 5 4 4 - - The Nomination Committ ee held a number of meetings to discuss the appointment of a new chairman and other changes to the Board.
These meetings were not attended by Bob Dench and Fiona Clutterbuck either in part or in full as appropriate and have not been included in the potential number of meetings they could have attended.
Directors also attended an annual two-day strategy event, held off site, to enable further, more detailed, discussion of the Groups position and future development.
This strategy event has been a regular fixture in the Groups governance calendar for a number of years and recently has also been attended by the Groups executive management group.
The Board regularly receives, reviews and considers reports on the following matters: Strategic matters Potential acquisition opportunities Business performance Results, management accounts and financial commentary Operational reports from business areas Treasury and funding matters Legal and governance matters The work of the Boards committees Matters arising from subsidiary company board and management meetings Investor relations and shareholder feedback Subsidiary governance A number of the corporate entities within the Group are regulated by either the PRA and the FCA or solely by the FCA.
The Company has oversight of these entities as part of its overall responsibility for the management of the Group and also to ensure that the Groups values and standards in regulated spheres are met.
Since the completion of the strategic reorganisation in September 2017 the directors of the Company have also comprised the Board of Paragon Bank PLC.
The boards of both companies meet jointly in most circumstances and the meetings noted above with the exception of the meetings of the Nomination Committee were joint meetings.
Oversight of Paragon Bank PLC, consequently, forms an intrinsic part of the board and committee meetings of the Company.
Effectiveness A majority of the non-executive directors are independent of management.
They are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
The non-executive directors meet with the Chairman, from time to time, without the presence of the executive directors.
All non-executive directors are appointed for fixed terms.
All of the directors holding office at 30 September 2018 were reappointed at the AGM on 15 February 2018, and all of them, excluding Alan Fletcher and Pat Newberry who are stepping down from the Board on 31 December 2018, have submitted themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered appropriate to do so and have access to such continuing professional development opportunities as are identified as appropriate in the Board appraisal process.
PAGE 73 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The Board considers that a majority of the non-executive directors are independent of the Group and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Alan Fletcher ceased to be an independent non-executive director, in accordance with the Code, in February 2018 when he had served on the Board for nine years.
Nevertheless, there were at all times during the year no less than six independent non-executive directors on the Board, therefore throughout the year the majority of the Board has been independent.
The composition of the Board and its committees is kept under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of power and authority between executive and non-executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the skills and experience necessary to direct the Companys and the Groups business activities.
The directors review actual or potential conflicts of interest in respect of any director at each meeting of the Board and its committees.
There is an established process for external appointments through the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
Executive director appointments are based upon merit and business need.
Non-executive appointments are based upon the candidates profiles matching those agreed by the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the Board approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
Succession planning for the Board is in place with emergency cover available for the executive directors.
Further detail is provided in the Nomination Committee section B3.2.
Learning and development At the end of September 2018, a Learning and Development framework was endorsed for the Board.
As this is embedded during the year ending 30 September 2019, learning and development plans for each board member based on an agreed skills matrix will be fully established and enhanced.
The matrix considers the competency level for each director based on a broad range of skills, scoring the skills and then building a tailored development programme.
The skills that form the matrix include helping to develop strategy: ensuring that the Group is acting in a prudent manner: and for a director who is chairman of a committee, fostering an open, inclusive and challenging discussion as well as facilitating independent oversight.
This framework will support the work of the Nomination Committee and the Chairman in developing the future structure of the Board.
All of the non-executive directors have received presentations during the year on various aspects of the Groups activities.
In addition, training has been provided by external advisors on topics such as the economy, and the markets and regulatory environments which the Group operates or is considering operating in.
As part of its development programme the Board has agreed a dedicated day and a half for training in each financial year and such days are scheduled into the ongoing board calendar.
During the year the Board, including at the dedicated training days, has received presentations on the macro-economy, the GDPR, various regulatory and reporting matters including IRB and IFRS 9, and the housing market.
A training schedule is maintained by the Human Resources department.
The directors appointed in September 2017 have received appropriately tailored induction training during the financial year to develop their understanding of the Group and its operations.
The Chairman is in the process of an extensive and tailored induction programme and has had deep dives into areas including Mortgages and Savings, covering the full customer life-cycle.
The Chairmans next area of focus will be Asset Finance and operational resilience, specifically IT and cyber security management.
Hugo Tudor is also undergoing a specific development programme for his new role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Board evaluation The effectiveness of the Board, individual directors and the Boards main committees are reviewed annually, with an externally facilitated review every three years as required by the Code previously completed during the year ended 30 September 2016.
This years annual board and committee review was internally facilitated.
No issues that were of concern arose from that review.
Individual performance The performance of the CEO is appraised by the Chairman.
The performance of the other executive directors is appraised by the CEO in conjunction with the Chairman.
The results of these appraisals are presented to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and determination of remuneration.
The Chairman appraises the performance of the non-executive directors, identifying any development opportunities or training needs.
The Senior Independent Director leads the review of the performance of the Chairman with the other non-executive directors, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
At the AGM the Chairman will confirm to shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any non-executive director, that following formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors will be available for inspection at the AGM.
PAGE 74 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Accountability Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main business lines are included within the Strategic Report Section A.
The Board uses this to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described in Section B8.
An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September 2018 and to the date of these financial statements.
An overview of this process, and its part in the directors consideration of the Groups viability is given in Section A4.
The directors are responsible for the system of internal control throughout the Group, including the system of internal control over financial reporting, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship between the cost and benefits from particular aspects of the control system.
The system of internal control includes documented procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular meetings of the Executive Committee, ALCO, CCC, Credit Committee, MRC and ORC.
Internal control over financial reporting within the Group is provided by a process designed, under the supervision of the CFO and senior financial management of the Group, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes, including the process of preparing the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures intended to ensure that records are maintained that fairly, and in reasonable detail, reflect transactions and dispositions of assets, to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements, to ensure that receipts and expenditures are only being made in accordance with management authorisation and to provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may reduce.
The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition, the Board operates a formal risk management process, described in more detail in Section B6, from which the key risks facing the business are identified.
The process results in reports to the Board, through its Risk and Compliance Committee, on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of regular presentations from senior management to enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated with their specific areas.
The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
Further details of the role and activities of the Audit Committee and its relationship with the internal and external auditors are set out in Section B4.
The Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups risk management framework and the effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls.
Further details of the role and activities of the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Groups risk management system are set out in Section B6.
There is some overlap between the work of the Audit Committee and that of the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Board monitors these areas to ensure that no gaps develop in the system of internal control.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the period and that these procedures accord with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business reporting published by the FRC.
Remuneration Information on how the Group has applied the provisions of the Code relating to remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report in Section B5.
PAGE 75 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Relations with shareholders The Board encourages communication with the Companys institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the AGM at which the directors and committee chairmen are available for questions.
The AGM is held in London during business hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report to investors on the Groups activities, to answer their questions and receive their views.
At all general meetings shareholders have an opportunity to vote separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged are counted and the balances for, against and directed to be withheld in respect of each resolution are announced.
The Chairman, CEO and CFO have a full programme of meetings with institutional investors during the course of the year and investors comments are communicated to all members of the Board, enabling them to develop an understanding of major shareholders views of the Group.
During the year ended 30 September 2018 meetings were held with investors from the UK, Europe and North America.
From time to time other presentations are made to institutional investors and analysts to enable them to gain a greater understanding of important aspects of the Groups business.
The Chairman, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, People Director and the Company Secretary hold annual meetings, generally in October, with leading shareholders to discuss remuneration policies and other corporate governance matters and the comments received are reported to the Board and considered by the Remuneration Committee in determining or varying the Groups approach to executive compensation.
The results of all of these meetings are reported to the Board so that all directors are aware of shareholder views.
The Senior Independent Director is also made aware of views expressed by shareholders to other members of the Board, via the Companys brokers or through the Investor Relations team and is available to meet with shareholders should they wish.
Such meetings can be arranged via the Company Secretary.
The Companys website at www.
co. uk provides access to information on the Group and its businesses.
B3.2 Nomination Committee During the year the Nomination Committee consisted of the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench until 10 May 2018 and Fiona Clutterbuck from 10 May 2018, who chaired the Committee, Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive until 20 September 2018 and Alan Fletcher until 24 February 2018, Peter Hartill, Patrick Newberry and Hugo Tudor, all independent non-executive directors.
The majority of the Committees members during the year were, therefore, independent non-executive directors and the Chairman who was considered independent on appointment.
At the year end the Committee consisted only of independent non-executive directors and the Chairman, and it is intended that this composition will be maintained in future.
During the year the Committee reviewed its terms of reference which were adopted by the Board in October 2016 to ensure that its remit continues to align with best practice.
The Committees purpose has been defined to include: Ensuring that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board Leading the process for Board appointments Making recommendations to the Board on those appointments Assisting the Board in ensuring its composition is regularly reviewed and refreshed so that it is effective and able to operate in the best interests of shareholders Ultimate responsibility for any appointment remains with the Board.
The Committee also considers re-appointment of directors, re-election of directors and the independence of non-executive directors, and makes recommendations regarding these matters to the Board.
The Committee keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the Board including its skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity and makes any recommendations that it deems necessary.
The Board recognises the benefits that can flow from non-executive directors holding other appointments but requires them to seek the agreement of the Chairman before entering into any commitments that might affect the time they can devote to the Company.
The Committee also has a general responsibility for oversight of the Groups senior management succession policy and its initiatives on workforce and management diversity, with a particular focus on its participation in external programmes, such as Women in Finance.
PAGE 76 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Appointment of the Chairman The process leading to the appointment of the new Chairman was undertaken in conjunction with Andrew Simpson of Korn Ferry a management consulting company who has no other connection to the Group.
A description of the role and capabilities required by a chairman of the board was approved by the Committee and a search was conducted against these objective criteria with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board including gender.
The search was led by Peter Hartill as it could not be led, in accordance with the Code, by the outgoing Chairman, Bob Dench, and nor could it be led by the then Senior Independent Director, Fiona Clutterbuck, as she was a candidate for the post.
The role description was considered in the light of the skills both hard and soft skills, experience and knowledge on the Board.
Initial conversations were undertaken by Andrew Simpson on an anonymised basis, with more detailed conversations held, once candidates had indicated their interest, with Peter Hartill and Nigel Terrington.
First formal interviews were held with a combination of Peter, Nigel, the People Director and other members of the Committee.
Final interviews were conducted by the full Committee with the People Director and Company Secretary in attendance.
The Committee ensured not only culture fit, but that the candidates could devote sufficient time to the appointment.
The shortlisted candidates were referenced at a level commensurate with the potential role, including discussions with the PRA, and they also underwent pre-employment screening, as do all potential Group employees.
Once the Committee had made a recommendation to the Board an application was submitted to the PRA for their approval.
The PRAs approval process included the submission not only of the job description and the CV of the candidate but also a proposed learning and development programme.
The regulator also conducted a formal interview with the candidate.
As part of this process the Committee also considered the consequential changes required to the Board and its committees following the appointment of the new Chairman.
It proposed that Peter Hartill and Hugo Tudor, both having been on the Board for a number of years, be appointed as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee respectively.
Diversity The Group recognises the importance of diversity, including gender diversity, at all levels of the organisation.
The Group recognises the importance of diversity on the Board, not only of gender, but also of experience and background, and the valuable contribution which such diversity can make towards achieving the appropriate balance of skills and knowledge which an effective board of directors requires.
The Board is committed to ensuring, in line with the Hampton-Alexander Review recommendations, that female directors will comprise 33% of the Board by the end of 2020.
The Board has always believed, and continues to believe, in appointing the best person to any role regardless of gender or other points of diversity and this belief is reflected and operates across all appointments made by the Group.
However, the Board recognises that measurement and publication of targets can assist in driving forward change and developing a talent pipeline in a sector where gender diversity has been difficult to achieve.
For this reason, the Group signed up to HM Treasurys Women in Finance Charter initiative and agreed targets in respect of gender diversity amongst the Groups senior management.
As is clear from the existence of the Women in Finance initiative, obtaining full diversification of gender in the financial services sector is particularly challenging given the size of the female talent pool across the industry.
Similar issues apply to advancing diversity of ethnicity in the sector.
The targets adopted reflect the Boards commitment to ensuring that diversity considerations throughout the Group are wider than gender.
The Groups diversity policies are described in Section A5.2 of the, where information on the composition of the workforce is also given, together with further information on the Groups Women in Finance targets and its progress since initial adoption of the targets in 2017.
The Group also reported on gender pay during the period and this information, together with updated comparisons is also discussed in Section A5.2.
Succession planning The succession plans for the Board were reviewed during the current financial year following the Groups strategic reorganisation at the end of September 2017.
The tenure of the non-executive directors is monitored by the Committee.
Emergency cover is in place for the executive directors and their direct reports.
The Human Resources department has a wider succession development plan for senior management roles across the Group, prioritising those positions likely to require recruitment within the next five years.
This data has been considered against internally identified individuals with high potential and the capability to fulfil those roles as they become vacant, to ensure that succession requirements can be met.
Internal individuals will be developed for future senior roles and this will be complemented with external recruitment at a senior level where necessary, to balance the required skills and experience of the senior management team and ensure continuing success in the future.
Following review work in 2016, which considered approximately 100 roles, internal development has been undertaken to enhance succession planning with consideration given to possible at risk roles as well as to the development of potential future senior management candidates.
A review of the effectiveness of this approach took place during the year which concluded that whilst there was a robust method to identify the risk and impact of a particular role becoming vacant, the identification of potential internal successors could be quite subjective and consequently a revised methodology will be adopted going forward including the introduction of a formal assessment and development cycle for senior and critical roles.
Risk mitigation will continue to include the ongoing development of employees, as well as work to further validate potential candidates for senior positions.
Development work on potential candidates occurs with those employees remaining in their current roles, as this training is undertaken so as to minimise business impact while ensuring that candidates are enabled to undertake a more senior role in due course.
The Groups preference, where possible, is that internal candidates are developed and supported to undertake senior roles as this assists in the ongoing maintenance of its strong cultural focus on its people.
PAGE 77 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
