B4 AUDIT COMMITTEE B4.1 S tatement by the Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder The year ended 30 September 2018 has been a busy one for the Committee.
The Group reorganisation in Peter Hartill September 2017 increased the Committees membership and extended its regulatory duties, and these Chairman of the changes were bedded in throughout the year.
Audit Committee There was also substantial change in the Group, with the Committee having to consider the accounting and reporting implications of two acquisitions as well as the preparations for the introduction of IFRS 9 in the coming financial year, which will have a major impact on the Groups accounting, both internally and externally.
This has all taken place against a background of constantly evolving accounting and regulatory requirements and organic developments within the business, all of which impact on the Committees workload.
As a Committee, our responsibility is to ensure that financial information published by the Group properly presents its activities to stakeholders in a way that is useful and understandable, as well as overseeing the effective delivery of both external and internal audit services.
During the year, the Committee met five times and its principal activities were as follows: The review of the annual and half-yearly financial statements to ensure these properly present the Groups activities in accordance with accounting standards, law, regulations and market practice In particular, the consideration of the Groups accounting policies for the recognition of interest income and loan impairment amongst other significant accounting issues The review of other financial information published by the Group, such as Pillar III disclosures required by banking regulations The supervision of the process to appoint a new Internal Audit Director The supervision of the internal audit function as its role changes as the business evolves and best practice develops Overseeing the Groups preparations for the introduction of IFRS 9, which was implemented with effect from 1 October 2018 and, with the Risk and Compliance Committee, the Groups IRB project Overseeing the integration of the Titlestone and Iceberg operations acquired in the year into the Groups financial reporting and control framework Considering the Groups readiness to address other forthcoming accounting changes which will affect it, such as IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 Receiving and considering the results of the Audit Quality Review carried out by the Financial Reporting Council FRC of KPMGs audit of the 2017 accounts PAGE 78 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts During the year, I also received notice of the retirement of Steve Powell, the Groups Internal Audit Director.
I would like to take this opportunity to record the thanks of the Committee and myself for all Steves hard work, especially in ensuring that the Internal Audit function remained fit for purpose as the Group transitioned into a bank.
I was pleased to take part in the selection process for the Groups new Internal Audit Director, who was approved by the Committee during the year.
She took up her new position after the year end and I look forward to working with her in the future.
In the financial year ending 30 September 2019 the Committees main priorities will include: Continued monitoring of the Groups IFRS 9 implementation programme following transition and as the first reporting is generated Maintaining oversight of the integration of the acquired businesses into the Groups control and reporting framework Ensuring that the Groups control processes evolve alongside developments in the business I commend this report to shareholders and ask you to support the resolutions concerning the reappointment of KPMG LLP KPMG as auditors and their remuneration at the AGM in 2019.
Peter Hartill Chairman of the Audit Committee 21 November 2018 PAGE 79 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts B4.2 Operations of the Committee The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive directors of the Company whose relevant experience is set out in Section B2 and its terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The Committees responsibilities include: Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting Reviewing the Groups internal control systems Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function Monitoring the relationship between the Group and the external auditor It also provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal audit functions report to the non executive directors.
The Internal Audit Director reports ultimately to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
They attend all meetings of the Audit Committee and also report regularly to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The Committee considers that, as a whole, it possesses the competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates that the Code requires.
Peter Hartill has competence in accounting and auditing while other committee members have experience in various aspects of the financial services industry.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
Meetings generally take place before the half year and year end reporting dates in March and September and before the approval of results in May and November.
The Committee normally invites the Chairman, the executive directors, Group Financial Controller, Internal Audit Director and a partner and other representatives from the external auditor to attend meetings of the Committee, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
For part of each meeting the Committee meets separately with representatives of the external auditor and with the Internal Audit Director without any other persons present.
At each meeting the Committee receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, Compliance functions.
From time to time, when there are major changes in the Groups accounting policies or audit arrangements in progress, the Chairman of the Committee has held meetings with shareholders and is prepared to meet investors in the future to discuss such matters.
Details on the Committee members attendance at meetings and the Boards evaluation of the Committees effectiveness are given in Section B3.1.
B4.3 Significant issues addressed by the Committee in relation to the Financial Statements The Committee considers whether the accounting policies adopted by the Group are suitable and whether significant estimates and judgements made by the management are appropriate.
In evaluating the Groups financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2018 the Committee considered particularly: The calculation of interest income under the Effective Interest Rate EIR method for both internally originated and purchased loan assets and the Groups borrowings The levels of impairment provision against loan assets The accounting for the acquisitions of Iceberg and Titlestone which took place in the year The requirement for any impairment provision against the purchased goodwill carried in the Groups balance sheet The valuation of the deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension scheme The viability statement which the Group is required to make under the Code The Groups capital and funding position and the Group forecasts for future periods The Committee also considered whether this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
In each of these areas the Committee was provided with papers discussing the position shown in the accounts, the underlying market conditions and assumptions and the methodology adopted for any calculations.
The papers also detailed any changes in approach from previous periods.
These were reviewed in detail and discussed with the relevant Group employees and the results of this work were considered, together with the results of testing by the external auditor.
There were no material or significant disagreements between the management and the external auditor.
PAGE 80 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Particular matters which the Committee focused on in each of these areas were: Matter Particular areas of focus Interest income and expense As required by IAS 39, the Group recognises income from loan balances on an EIR basis, which is recognition intended to produce a constant yield throughout the behavioural life of the loan, taking account of such matters as costs of procuration, and initially fixed or discounted interest rates.
The calculation therefore rests on assumptions about the future behaviour of the Groups customers.
A similar approach is taken to assessing interest on borrowings, where redemption profiles and anticipated refinancing dates influence expense recognition.
The Committee assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions made, considering performance of the portfolios against expectations and the impact of changes in product specifications.
Redemption profiles used in the modelling of mortgage books and the availability of alternative offerings in the market were areas of particular focus.
The Committee also paid particular attention to the accounting for new Idem portfolio purchases, which are generally made at a discount to the gross balance owed by customers on the accounts purchased, and where portfolio performance is a major driver of the EIR calculation.
Further information on these estimates can be found in note 6b to the accounts, and the interest income and expense recognised on this basis is shown in notes 18 and 19 Loan impairment IAS 39 requires that companies provide for any financial assets, held at amortised cost, considered to be impaired at the balance sheet date, to the extent that the carrying value might not be recovered.
The Groups calculation of impairment provision relies on assumptions to determine when an account might require provision and how large that provision would need to be.
In order to satisfy itself that this calculation resulted in appropriate provisioning, the Committee considered actual out-turns against historical impairment provision amounts calculated by the Groups models and the continued relevance of historical cash flow experience to the current loan book, based on present economic conditions and account administration practices.
This included an assessment of the impact of the Groups receiver of rent processes on cash flows and ultimate impairment levels, consideration of the likely effects of movements in property prices on security values and an examination of exposure on large portfolios.
Further information on these estimates can be found in note 6a to the accounts, the impairment charge for the year is shown in note 28 and movements in provision for impairment are shown in note 38.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is discussed in note 9 Acquisition accounting During the year the Group completed the acquisitions of Iceberg and Titlestone and was required, in accordance with IFRS 3, to determine fair values for all of the assets and liabilities acquired, including intangible assets and therefore to determine the amount of goodwill arising in each transaction.
In considering whether the fair values of assets and liabilities had been properly determined the Committee considered the nature of the assets acquired, their historic credit performance, the due diligence exercises carried out before acquisition, and in the case of Titlestone, considered a detailed review of the loan book carried out as part of the acquisition process.
Further information on these estimates and policies can be found in notes 14 and 15 to the accounts Goodwill impairment The Group is required to assess, at the end of the year, whether the carrying value of the acquired goodwill balance in its accounts, which is not subject to amortisation under IFRS, remains appropriate or whether any impairment has occurred.
This includes both newly acquired goodwill and goodwill arising from previous acquisitions.
In considering whether any impairment of goodwill had occurred the Committee considered particularly the Groups forecasts for the cash flows to be generated by the acquired businesses and their reasonableness in the light of current trading performance and the Groups strategy for these operations.
The potential impairment of goodwill is discussed in notes 6c and 44 PAGE 81 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Matter Particular areas of focus Pension deficit The deficit on the Groups defined benefit pension plan is valued in accordance with IAS 19, which requires an actuarial valuation of the plan liabilities.
Such a valuation is based on assumptions including market interest rates, inflation and mortality rates in the Plan.
In order to satisfy itself as to the appropriateness of these assumptions, the Committee considered their derivation and the market data underlying them.
These were compared to market benchmarks and advice from the Groups actuarial advisers.
The Committee also considered benchmarking data provided by the external auditor.
Further information on the Plan deficit, the basis of valuation and the assumptions underlying it can be can be found in note 56 to the accounts, along with an analysis of sensitivities to the more significant assumptions Viability statement The Board is required by the Code and the Listing Rules to make a viability statement in the Annual Report.
The Committee has been asked to express an opinion to the Board as to whether this statement could properly be made.
The Committee considered aspects of the work of the Board and its various committees which addressed the Groups business model, risk profile, access to funds and future strategy, they also considered guidance issued by the FRC and stress testing which had been carried out in the year.
A fuller discussion of the directors consideration of the viability statement is set out in Section A4 Capital and funding The Board is required by the Code and the Listing Rules to make a going concern statement in the Annual Report.
The Committee considered the Groups detailed forecasts and the implicit cash and capital requirements.
The Committee discussed availability of funding, potential stress events and the impact of the economic environment.
A fuller discussion of the directors consideration of the going concern statement is set out in Section A4 Fair, balanced and understandable The Board is required by the Code to state whether, in its view, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee considered the draft Annual Report for the financial year, as a whole, satisfying itself that the process for the preparation and review of its various sections, was appropriate.
The Committee especially focussed on areas where disclosure requirements had changed or where new activities were to be reported on.
Based on this exercise, and the Committees own understanding of the business in the year, it determined whether the Annual Report, overall, portrayed the Groups activities, position and results properly.
The discussion of future accounting changes required by IAS 8 note 3 is an output of the ongoing IFRS 9 implementation project which the Committee has supervised throughout the period and the Committee reflected upon whether the disclosure made in the accounts was appropriate.
The Committee was able to reach satisfactory conclusions on all of these areas and therefore resolved to commend the Annual Report to the Board for approval, and to advise the Board that it can conclude that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Earlier in the year the Committee had considered each of these areas, where applicable, in the same manner in concluding that it could commend the Groups half-yearly financial report for the six months ended 31 March 2018 to the Board for approval.
PAGE 82 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts B4.4 External auditor The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process, for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and remuneration of external auditors.
The Committee is also responsible for developing and implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Audit tendering On 24 September 2014, the Competition and Markets Authority finalised its investigation into the audit market and published The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order.
The provisions of the Order are consistent with new requirements being introduced by European legislation.
The Order first applied to the Group from the beginning of the year ended 30 September 2016 and requires that only the Committee can agree the fees and terms of service of the external auditors, initiate and supervise a tendering process or recommend the appointment of an external auditor to the Board following a tender process.
The Group has complied with the requirements of the Order during the year.
KPMG were appointed as auditors, following a competitive tender process, with effect from the year ended 30 September 2016 at the Annual General Meeting in February 2016.
The financial year ended 30 September 2018 is the third reported on by KPMG.
Simon Clark has been appointed as engagement partner for the year ended 30 September 2018.
He has been involved in the audit assignment since KPMGs appointment.
The Group is therefore not subject to a legal requirement to undertake an audit tender until ten years have elapsed, and will report to shareholders no later than after the completion of the fifth year the year ending 30 September 2020, and in each subsequent year thereafter, its conclusions on whether a further tender is in the Groups interest at that time.
Other than the legal requirements of the Order, the Committee has not identified any factors which might restrict its choice of external auditor.
Audit Quality Review The audit of the Groups financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2017 by KPMG was reviewed by the FRC during the year.
The results of this review were received by the Committee and they were discussed with the Auditors.
Additionally, the Chairman of the Committee met with the FRCs representatives to discuss their findings.
The Committee also noted the results of the FRCs overall review of KPMG for the year published in July 2018 and, in view of its adverse findings, considered whether these had any implications for the Groups audit.
KPMG presented their action plan to address the FRCs recommendations to the Committee, which discussed the appropriateness of these responses.
Having considered the FRC reports and the representations made by KPMG, the Committee concluded that these matters would not prevent KPMGs reappointment as auditors at this stage.
Audit effectiveness The Committee has considered the effectiveness of the external audit for the year ended 30 September 2018 and the Groups relationship with the external auditor, KPMG, on an on-going basis, and has conducted a formal review of the effectiveness of the annual audit before commending this Annual Report to the Board.
This review consisted of the following steps: A list of relevant questions was considered by senior management who submitted their responses in writing to the Committee in advance of the meeting convened to consider the Annual Report The Committee members considered their experience of the audit process in advance of that meeting At the meeting the Committee discussed the results of the exercise with the senior financial management of the Group, without the external auditor present The Committee then addressed the evaluation, as appropriate, with the external auditors The Committee was able to conclude, on the basis of this exercise and its experience over the year, that the external audit process remained effective and that the auditor was independent and objective, up to the signing date of this report.
A further review will be carried out following the completion of audit procedures on all Group companies and reported on in next years Annual Report.
PAGE 83 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The effectiveness review addressing the conduct of the 2017 audit, undertaken at the time of approval of the 2017 Group accounts was updated once the external audit process for all Group companies had been completed and affirmed the original conclusion, that the external audit was independent and objective and that the audit process was effective for that financial year.
In conjunction with the effectiveness review the Committee considered whether KPMG remained able to provide the required quality of service and were independent of the Group.
More specifically the Committee considered whether KPMGs understanding of the Groups business, their access to appropriate financial services and regulatory specialists within their firm, both locally and nationally, and their understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates were appropriate to the Groups needs.
As part of this exercise the Committee also considered the transparency report presented by the Auditor and the FRCs most recent audit inspection review on the audit firm.
As a result of these exercises the Committee concluded that it would recommend to the Board that a resolution to reappoint KPMG as auditors for the year ending 30 September 2019 should be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Independence policy Both the Committee and the external auditor have safeguards in place to avoid any compromise of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Committee considers the independence of the external auditor annually and the Group has a formal policy for the engagement of its external auditor to supply non-audit services, reviewed, most recently, in September 2018.
The policy is designed to ensure that neither the nature of the service to be provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services could impact the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy precludes the appointment of the external auditor to provide any service where there is involvement in management functions or decision making, or any service on which management might place primary reliance in determining the adequacy of internal controls, financial systems or financial reporting.
It also precludes the external auditor from providing tax or remuneration advice.
Internal audit services may not be provided by the external auditor.
The Committee must approve any engagement of the external auditor for non-audit work, except where the fee involved is clearly trivial.
The policy sets out rules for the employment of former employees of the external auditor and procedures for monitoring such persons within the organisation.
The Committee reviews, on a regular basis, the levels of fees paid to all major accounting firms to identify any matters which might impact on those firms ability to tender for the group audit at any future date.
Fees paid to the external auditor Fees paid to the external auditor are shown in note 27 to the Accounts.
Other than services required to be provided by external auditors by legislation or regulation, non-audit services provided by KPMG related to assurance in respect of transactions, where such assurance is customarily given by a companys auditors shown as other assurance services in note 27.
Audit fees of Group entities for the year have increased by 37.4% to 1,161,000 2017: 845,000.
This was a result of an increase in scope as a result of acquisitions and additional work related to the introduction of IFRS 9.
The fees paid to KPMG, the Groups external auditor, for non-audit services excluding VAT, were 68,000 2017: 52,000, which is equivalent to 5.2% of the total fees paid to them.
The Group actively considers other providers for the type of non-audit services typically provided by accounting firms.
It maintains on-going relationships relating to tax, remuneration and regulatory advice with firms other than the Auditors firm and considers discrete projects on a case-by-case basis.
The Group has engaged with a number of firms, including some outside the big four largest audit firms for assignments during the year, assessing each firms appropriateness for the particular assignment before an appointment was made.
Fees paid to audit firms excluding VAT, excluding the Group audit and related fees can be analysed as shown below: 2018 2017 000 000 Auditors KPMG 68 52 Other big four firms 926 673 Other firms 3 33 997 758 The Group maintains relationships with all of the major accounting firms and considers a variety of providers for this type of assignment.
PAGE 84 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts B4.5 Internal Audit The Committee is responsible for considering and approving the remit of the internal audit function and ensuring it has adequate resources and appropriate access to information to enable it to perform its function effectively and in accordance with the relevant professional standards.
The Committee also ensures that the internal audit function has adequate standing and is free from management or other restrictions which may impair its independence.
Operations During the year, the Committee considered and approved the annual internal audit plan, which is based on an assessment of the key risks faced by the Group.
Progress in respect of the plan is monitored throughout the year and an assessment made of whether the internal audit function has sufficient resource to complete the plan.
With the approval of the Committee the audit plan may be revised during the year, based on the ongoing assessment of the key risks or in response to the requirements of the Group.
The Internal Audit Director met regularly throughout the year with the Chairman of the Committee to discuss progress against plan, outstanding agreed actions, and departmental resourcing.
Ahead of finalisation of the audit plan for the year ending 30 September 2019, the Chairman of the Committee met with the Internal Audit Director and his managers to discuss audit planning priorities, key business risks and assess current resourcing.
The Chairman then took the opportunity to meet informally with all the internal audit team members to enhance understanding on both sides.
The Groups Internal Audit Director informed the Committee of his intention to retire during the year and the Committee supervised the transitional arrangement to ensure the ongoing effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Committee was also responsible for the selection process for a new Internal Audit Director, with the Chairman interviewing all shortlisted candidates and discussing them with the Committee, who approved the final selection.
The successful candidate took up her appointment in November.
At the request of the PRA, as part of a market-wide review, during the year ended 30 September 2018 internal audit has undertaken specific review work to assess the effectiveness of the firms processes and controls in place in relation to the PRA Certification Regime.
Additionally, other assurance has been provided to the regulator with treasury and funding reviews in the Bank.
These reviews were co-sourced under the agreement with a third-party accounting firm on a subject matter expertise basis.
Certain other technical or specialist reviews of the first and second line have also been undertaken including an element of co-sourced input where it was deemed by the Internal Audit Director that such skills would complement those of the internal team.
All internal audit reports are circulated to the full Board.
Main findings of reports graded high or above are discussed by the Committee.
Overdue actions graded medium or above are challenged at both the Committee and the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The results of this work, together with the Committees engagement with the management information of the Group and the executive directors, have enabled them to conclude that the statements given in Section B3 relating to the Groups systems of internal control and its management of risk are appropriate.
Effectiveness In line with the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors standards, the Committee commissioned an external quality assessment EQA in January 2018 to benchmark internal audit activities against best practice and peers.
The EQA concluded: Overall we have been impressed with the professional and stakeholder-focussed approach taken by Paragon Internal Audit and this is reflected in the positive feedback from both the Audit Committee and from senior management, who see a good level of value being delivered on a consistent basis.
This is further supported by a strong level of conformance with the IIAs Standards.
B4.6 Whistleblowing There is an established procedure whereby employees can make disclosures regarding malpractice within the Group on a confidential basis, in accordance with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 PIDA.
The policy also makes provision to ensure that no employee making such a disclosure suffers any detriment by doing so.
This process is supervised by the Committee and any amendments to the policy require the approval of the Chairman of the Committee.
There is a right of appeal to the Chairman where the employee is dissatisfied with the outcome and his decision is final in all cases.
To ensure that the policy is embedded in the operations of the Group all employees received training on the requirements of PIDA and the Groups policy during the year and were tested to ensure their understanding.
During the year ended 30 September 2018 no reports were made through the Groups whistleblowing process which necessitated action being taken.
PAGE 85 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
