Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 80 Board of Directors Pearson Board members bring a Chair Non-Executive Directors wide range of experience, skills and N A backgrounds which complement R N our strategy.
All Board members R have strong leadership experience at global businesses and institutions and, as a group, Sidney Taurel Chair Elizabeth Corley, CBE Non-Executive Director their experience covers: aged 70, appointed 1 January 2016 aged 62, appointed 1 May 2014 Sidney has over 45 years of experience in business Elizabeth has extensive experience in the Business strategy and governance and finance, and is currently a Director of IBM financial services industry, having been CEO Innovation and disruption Corporation, where he also serves on the directors of Allianz Global Investors, initially for Europe Education and corporate governance committee.
Sidney is an then globally, from 2005 to 2016, and continues advisory board member at pharmaceutical firm to act as a senior adviser to the firm.
She was Digital and technology Almirall.
He was Chief Executive Officer of global previously at Merrill Lynch Investment Talent, people and culture pharmaceutical firm Eli Lilly and Company from Managers and Coopers & Lybrand.
Elizabeth Finance and investment 1998 until 2008, Chairman from 1999 until 2008, is a Non-Executive Director of BAE Systems plc Sustainability and environmental matters and has been Chairman Emeritus since 2009.
He and Morgan Stanley Inc. Elizabeth is active in was also a Director at McGraw Hill Financial, Inc. representing the investment industry and Marketing, brand and media a role which he held from 1996 until April 2016 and developing standards within it.
She currently Government, international and at ITT Industries from 1996 to 2001.
In 2002, Sidney chairs a Taskforce for the UK government on regulatory affairs received three US presidential appointments to: social impact investing.
She is a member of Our Board members biographies illustrate the Homeland Security Advisory Council, the the Committee of 200.
She was appointed the contribution each Director makes to the Presidents Export Council and the Advisory Commander of the British Empire in the 2015 Board by way of their individual experience.
Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations, New Year Honours for her services to the and is an officer of the French Legion of Honour.
Current notable commitments: Current notable commitments: BAE Systems IBM Corporation Non-Executive Director plc Non-Executive Director, Morgan Stanley Inc. Non-Executive Director Executive Directors A RR Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer John Fallon Chief Executive Michael Lynton Non-Executive Director aged 45, appointed 1 August 2015 aged 56, appointed 3 October 2012 aged 59, appointed 1 February 2018 John became Pearsons Chief Executive on Coram joined Pearson in 2003 and has held Michael served as CEO of Sony Entertainment 1 January 2013.
Since 2008, he had been a number of senior positions including Finance from 2012 until 2017, overseeing Sonys responsible for the Companys education and Operations Director for Pearsons English global entertainment businesses.
He also businesses outside North America and a language teaching business in Europe, served as Chairman and CEO of Sony Pictures member of the Pearson management Middle East & Africa, Interim President of Entertainment from 2004.
Prior to that, he held committee.
He joined Pearson in 1997 as Pearson Education Italia and Head of Financial senior roles within Time Warner and AOL, and Director of Communications and was appointed Planning and Analysis for Pearson.
In 2008, earlier served as Chairman and CEO of Penguin President of Pearson Inc. in 2000.
In 2003, Coram became CFO of The Penguin Group Group where he extended the Penguin brand to he was appointed CEO of Pearsons educational and was latterly appointed CFO of Penguin music and the internet.
Michael is Chairman of publishing businesses for Europe, Middle Random House in 2013, where he oversaw Snap, Inc. and currently serves on the boards East & Africa.
Prior to joining Pearson, the integration of the two businesses.
of IEX, Warner Music and Ares Management John was Director of Corporate Affairs at Coram trained at Arthur Andersen, and Corporation LLC.
Powergen plc and was also a member of the subsequently worked in both the auditing Current notable commitments: companys executive committee.
Earlier in and consulting practices of the firm.
He is a Ares Management Corporation LLC his career, John held senior public policy and Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Non-Executive Director, Snap, Inc. Chairman communications roles in UK local government.
audit committee for the Guardian Media Group.
He is an advisory board member of the Global Business Coalition for Education.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 81 81 A N A N R RR RR Vivienne Cox, CBE Senior Independent Director Josh Lewis Non-Executive Director Linda Lorimer Non-Executive Director aged 59, appointed 1 January 2012 aged 56, appointed 1 March 2011 aged 66, appointed 1 July 2013 Vivienne has wide experience in energy, natural Joshs experience spans finance, education Linda has spent almost 40 years serving higher resources and business innovation.
She worked and the development of digital enterprises.
She retired from Yale in 2016 after for BP plc for 28 years in global roles including He is founder of Salmon River Capital LLC, 34 years at the university where she served Executive Vice President and Chief Executive a New York-based private equity venture capital in an array of senior positions including Vice of BPs gas, power and renewables business firm focused on technology-enabled businesses President for Global & Strategic Initiatives.
She and its alternative energy unit.
She is Chair in education, financial services and other oversaw the development of Yales burgeoning of the supervisory board of Vallourec S. A. sectors, through which he has taken on the online education division and the expansion of a leader in the seamless steel pipe markets, role of Non-Executive Director of several Yales international programmes and centres.
Non-Executive Director at pharmaceutical enterprises.
Over a 25-year career in active, During her tenure, she was responsible for company GlaxoSmithKline plc and serves as principal investing, he has been involved in a many administrative services, ranging from Chair of the Rosalind Franklin Institute.
She was broad range of successful companies, including Yales public communications and alumni appointed Commander of the British Empire in several pioneering enterprises in the education relations to sustainability, human resources the 2016 New Year Honours for her services to sector.
In addition, he has long been active in and the university press.
She also served on the the economy and sustainability.
boards of several public companies, including as Presiding Director of the McGraw-Hill Current notable commitments: Current notable commitments: Salmon River companies.
Linda is a member of the board of GlaxoSmithKline plc Non-Executive Director, Capital LLC Founder & Managing Principal Yale New Haven Hospital, where she chairs the Vallourec S. A.
Chair of the supervisory board nominating and governance committee.
Key to Committees A A N RR A Audit R N Nomination & Governance RR Reputation & Responsibility R Remuneration Lincoln Wallen Non-Executive Director Tim Score Non-Executive Director Committee chair aged 58, appointed 1 January 2016 aged 58, appointed 1 January 2015 Current notable commitments include Tim has extensive experience of the technology Lincoln has extensive experience in the other listed company directorships and sector in both developed and emerging technology and media industries, and is currently full time or executive roles.
markets, having served as Chief Financial CTO of Improbable, a technology start-up Officer of ARM Holdings plc, the worlds leading supplying next-generation cloud hosting and semiconductor IP company, for 13 years.
networking services to the video game industry.
He is an experienced non-executive director Lincoln was CEO of DWA Nova, a software-as-aand currently sits on the boards of The British service company spun out of DreamWorks Land Company plc and HM Treasury, in addition Animation Studios in Los Angeles, a position he to being a Trustee of the National Theatre.
He worked at DreamWorks He served on the board of National Express Animation for nine years in a variety of leadership Group plc from 2005 to 2014, including time as roles including Chief Technology Officer and Head interim Chairman and six years as the Senior of Animation Technology.
He was formerly CTO at Independent Director.
Earlier in his career Electronic Arts Mobile, leading their entry into the Tim held senior finance roles with Rebus Group, mobile gaming business internationally.
Lincoln is William Baird, LucasVarity plc and BTR plc.
a Non-Executive Director of the Smith Institute for Industrial Mathematics and Systems Engineering.
Current notable commitments: The British His early career involved 20 years of professional Land Company plc Non-Executive Director IT and mathematics research, including as a and Chairman-elect reader in Computer Science at Oxford.
Current notable commitments: Improbable Chief Technology Officer Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 82 Board governance and activities Chair and Chief Executive There is a defined split of responsibilities Board of Directors between the Chair and the Chief Executive.
The roles and Composition of the Board As at the date of this report, the Board responsibilities of the Chair and Chief Executive are clearly defined, consists of the Chair, Sidney Taurel, two Executive Directors: set out in writing and reviewed and agreed by the Board on an the Chief Executive, John Fallon, and Chief Financial Officer, annual basis.
These can be found on the Company website at Coram Williams, and seven independent Non-Executive Directors.
com governance During the year, Harish Manwani stepped down from the Board Chairs significant commitments There were no changes to the at the AGM held on 4 May 2018 and Michael Lynton joined the Chairs significant commitments during 2018.
However, during Board on 1 February 2018. the year, Mr Taurel stepped down as chair of the compensation committee of IBM Corporation and joined its directors and corporate governance committee.
Roles and composition of the Board Role Name Responsibility Gender balance Nationality Chair Sidney Taurel The Chair is primarily responsible for the leadership of the Board of Board of Directors and ensuring its effectiveness.
He ensures that the Board upholds and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance, setting the Boards agenda and encouraging open, constructive debate of all agenda items for effective decision-making.
He regularly meets the Chief Executive to stay informed.
He also ensures that shareholders views are communicated to the Board.
Chief John Fallon The Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management Executive Men 7 British 6 of the business and for the development and implementation of Women 3 USA 4 the Companys strategy as agreed by the Board and management.
He is responsible for developing operational proposals and policies for approval by the Board, and promotes Pearsons culture and standards.
Chief Coram Williams The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the preparation and Financial integrity of Pearsons financial reporting and statements and also Officer oversees other functional areas including tax, treasury, internal audit and corporate finance.
He supports the Chief Executive in developing and implementing the strategy of the Company as agreed by the Board and management.
Senior Vivienne Cox The Senior Independent Directors role includes meeting regularly Independent with the Chair and Chief Executive to discuss specific issues, Director as well as being available to shareholders generally should they have concerns that have not been addressed through the normal Ethnicity Length of channels.
She also leads the evaluation of the Chair on behalf tenure of of the other Directors.
Non-Executive Committee Elizabeth Corley The Committee Chairs are responsible for leading the Board Directors Chairs Vivienne Cox Committees and ensuring their effectiveness.
They set the Linda Lorimer Committees agendas, in consultation with management, and Tim Score report to the Board on Committee proceedings.
They lead on engagement with shareholders regarding matters within the remit of the Committees, alongside senior management.
NonElizabeth Corley The Non-Executive Directors contribute to the development of Executive Vivienne Cox our strategy and scrutinise and constructively challenge the Directors Josh Lewis performance of management in the execution of strategy and Mixed 1 Under 3 years 2 Linda Lorimer risk planning.
They also engage with various stakeholders of the White 9 3 to 6 years 3 Michael Lynton Company and provide guidance and independent perspective Over 6 years 2 Mixed White & Black Caribbean 1 Tim Score to management.
White English Lincoln Wallen Welsh Scottish Northern Irish Company Stephen Jones The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its British 6 Secretary Committees, ensuring compliance with Board procedures and White Any other advising on governance matters.
He is responsible, under the White Background 3 direction of the Chair, for ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
The Company Secretary supports the Chair in delivery of the corporate governance agenda and organises Director inductions and ongoing training.
All information correct as at 31 December 2018.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 83 83 Governance at Pearson Board of Directors Board Committees Audit Nomination & Governance Remuneration Reputation & Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Appraises our financial Reviews corporate governance Determines the remuneration Considers the Companys impact management and reporting matters, including Code and benefits of the Executive on society and the communities and assesses the integrity compliance and Board Directors and oversees in which Pearson operates, of our accounting procedures evaluation, considers the remuneration arrangements including to ensure that and financial control.
appointment of new Directors, for the Pearson Executive.
strategies are in place to Board experience and diversity, manage and improve and reviews Board induction Pearsons reputation.
see p13 Pearson Executive management PEM PEM consists of John Fallon Chief Executive and his direct reports.
They are the executive leadership group for Pearson, responsible for delivering Pearsons strategy under clearly defined accountabilities and in line with agreed governance and processes.
Chief Executive General Counsel & Chief Legal Officer Chief Financial Officer President UK & Core Markets Chief Technology & Operations Officer President Growth Markets Chief Corporate Affairs Officer President North America Chief Human Resources Officer President Pearson Assessments Chief Strategy Officer President Global Product Independence of Chair In accordance with the Code, Sidney Taurel independence.
The Board has determined that Josh Lewis and was considered to be independent upon his appointment as Vivienne Cox continue to be independent, taking into account their Chair on 1 January 2016. valuable contribution to Board discussions and constructive challenge of management.
Independence of Directors All of the Non-Executive Directors who served during 2018 were considered by the Board to be Conflicts of interest Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors have independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Board reviews the a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the Company.
independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors annually.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Directors to This includes reviewing their external appointments and any authorise conflicts of interest.
The Company has established a potential conflicts of interest as well as assessing their individual procedure to identify actual and potential conflicts of interest, circumstances in order to ensure that there are no relationships or including all directorships or other appointments to, or relationships matters likely to affect their judgement.
In addition to this review, with, companies which are not part of the Pearson Group and each of the Non-Executive Directors is asked annually to complete which could give rise to actual or potential conflicts of interest.
an independence questionnaire to satisfy requirements arising Once notified to the Chair or Company Secretary, such potential from Pearsons US listing and, from the beginning of 2019, the new conflicts are considered for authorisation by the Board at its next UK Corporate Governance Code.
The relevant Director cannot vote on an authorisation resolution, or be counted in the quorum, in relation Josh Lewis and Vivienne Cox have served on the Board for more to the resolution relating to his her conflict or potential conflict.
Accordingly, their performance was subject The Board reviews any authorisations granted on an annual basis.
to a rigorous review during 2018, including with regard to their FLOW OF INFORMATION Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 84 Board governance and activities Strategic planning The role and business of the Board In 2018, following continued improvements in our operational The Board is deeply engaged in developing and measuring the and financial performance, the Board was in a position to focus Companys long-term strategy, performance, culture and values.
particularly on strategy and future prospects for the business.
We believe that it adds a valuable and diverse set of external In honing our strategic and financial plans, the Board considered perspectives and that robust, open debate about significant findings from a dedicated workstream involving contributors business issues brings an additional discipline to major decisions.
from across Pearson which sought to: A schedule of formal matters reserved for the Boards Review the education landscape, present and future state decision and approval is available on our website, at www.
com governance Articulate key conclusions around which to build our strategy The key responsibilities of the Board include: Identify the customer problems we are best placed to solve Overall leadership of the Company and setting the Companys Identify the capabilities we need to utilise and build to deliver values and standards including monitoring culture our five-year strategy Determining the Companys strategy in consultation with Identify implications for our business which will drive our future management, reviewing performance against it and overseeing investments and planning process.
management execution thereof Following detailed consideration and discussion of these themes Major changes to the Companys corporate, capital, over a number of focused sessions during the year, the Board management and control structures confirmed its strategic priorities, as described on p2024.
Approval of all transactions or financial commitments in Standing Committee excess of the authority limits delegated to the Chief Executive A Standing Committee of the Board is established to approve and other Executive management certain operational and ordinary course of business items such Assessment of management performance and Board and as banking matters, guarantees, intra-group transactions and Executive succession planning.
to make routine approvals relating to employee share plans.
The Board receives timely, regular and necessary financial, The Committee has written terms of reference, reviewed management and other information to fulfil its duties.
and approved each year, which clearly set out its authority Comprehensive meeting papers are circulated to the Board and duties.
These can be found on the Company website at and Committee members at least one week in advance of each www.
meeting and the Board receives a regular dashboard and key milestones report and regular updates from the Chief Executive Board meetings and Chief Financial Officer.
In addition to meeting papers, a library The Board held seven formal meetings in 2018, with discussions and of current and historical corporate information is made available debates focused on the key strategic issues facing the Company.
to Directors electronically to support the Boards decision-making This included a meeting in Milan, Italy, when the Board considered process.
Directors can obtain independent professional advice, its Core markets, and a meeting in Cape Town, South Africa, at which at the Companys expense, in the performance of their duties as Growth markets was the main focus: together with deeper dives into Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the local business on both trips.
Major items covered by the Board the Company Secretary.
in 2018 are shown in the table opposite.
In addition to the formal meetings, the Board meets in person or by telephone as necessary to consider matters of a time-sensitive nature.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 85 85 Milan, Italy At a two-day meeting in Milan in June, the Board and Cape Town, South Africa The Board and the Pearson Executive Pearson Executive spent time focused on Pearsons businesses visited Cape Town in October for a three-day meeting.
They were in our Core markets as well as on the local Italian business.
joined by members of senior management from the Growth They considered the ways in which Pearson aims to innovate the leadership team who provided an overview of the Growth business delivery of access to high-quality career-focused education, and including country-specific updates and a deeper dive into the the opportunities to collaborate, challenge and support across the South African learning services and direct delivery businesses.
Throughout the meeting the Board engaged with The Board and Executive participated in a range of engagement the Core leadership team and met with representatives of the opportunities with a variety of Pearson stakeholders, including a local employee population.
The Board also had the opportunity Rapid Prototyping workshop and a customer panel session with the to observe an example of career-focused education in schools, theme of putting employability at the heart of Pearsons strategy by viewing a robotics class and also participated in a facilitated Read more about the Rapid Prototyping workshop and the Boards exercise with the Core leadership team around the theme of how engagement with these stakeholders on p108109.
The Board Pearson can best drive the opportunity to connect education and also spent some time hearing from each member of the Executive work, preparing people for lifelong learning and future skills.
team about the prospects for and performance of their individual There were also two stakeholder panel sessions, allowing the business units, or areas of control, before taking some time to Board to hear directly from customers about the challenges review Pearsons talent pipeline and in particular how it aligns with they face in delivering high-quality content, assessment and the organisations culture and capabilities.
During the meeting, the qualifications in schools, and from employers and the higher Board also attended a facilitated breakfast meeting with new and education sector about preparing students for work.
emerging local talent and gained a valuable insight into employees views on Pearsons current challenges and opportunities.
Board meeting focus during 2018 Strategy WSE and US K12 Courseware updates Interactive product demonstrations Review of Core and Growth markets at offsite meetings Product, technology and operations strategies Efficiency and simplification initiatives Operating and strategic plan discussions US Higher Education Courseware Performance 2017 preliminary results and annual report and accounts Oversight of 2018 operating plan and goals, and preparation for 2019 Interim results and trading updates Final and interim dividend proposals Regular dashboard and milestone reports Leadership & people Talent and succession planning Chief Human Resources Officers first impressions of HR and talent at Pearson Organisational health including review of Pearsons culture Dinner with senior local management and facilitated breakfasts with key talent at overseas strategy meetings.
Read more on employee engagement on p109 Chief Executives goals Governance & risk Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code Approval of division of responsibilities between Chair and Chief Executive Regular Brexit and Pensions updates Annual review of conflicts of interest Shareholder activism and defence planning Investor relations updates Enterprise risk management review Approval of Committee terms of reference Approval of income statement and going concern and viability Tax update Board evaluation Shareholders & engagement Investor relations strategy and share price performance Focus on forthcoming AGM Major shareholders and share register analysis Digital advisory network update Shareholder issues and voting Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 86 Board governance and activities The following table sets out the attendance of the Companys Culture and values Directors at scheduled Board meetings during 2018: Pearsons core values to be brave, imaginative, decent and Board meetings attended accountable go to the heart of our mission to improve learning Chair outcomes, and the Board and employees are committed to Sidney Taurel 7 7 demonstrating these characteristics throughout their work and deliberations.
During 2018, the focus was to foster a culture of Executive Directors innovation, organisational health, diversity and inclusion at all John Fallon 7 7 levels and which included engaging with employees from across Coram Williams 7 7 Pearson through various platforms and events during the year.
Non-Executive Directors The Board recognises that the Companys culture is also undergoing Elizabeth Corley 7 7 transformation through the simplification of our portfolio and Vivienne Cox 7 7 investment through structured programmes such as The Enabling Programme TEP and the Global Learning Platform GLP.
The Board Josh Lewis 7 7 monitors the culture of the Company and levels of employee Linda Lorimer 7 7 engagement and advocacy with the assistance of its Reputation & 1 Michael Lynton 6 6 Responsibility Committee and through regular updates from the 2 Harish Manwani 3 3 Chief Human Resources Officer.
Tim Score 7 7 Board attendance Lincoln Wallen 7 7 1 Mr Lynton joined the Board on 1 February 2018.
Directors are expected to attend all Board and Committee meetings 2 Mr Manwani resigned from the Board on 4 May 2018. but in certain exceptional circumstances, such as due to pre-existing business or personal commitments, it is recognised that Directors may be unable to attend.
There was full attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings in 2018.
Board in action Global Learning Platform Pearson is building a Global Learning Platform GLP, which is a plan linking it to delivery of the GLP.
At its December meeting, single, cloud-based platform thats highly scalable and reliable, the Board received a live software demonstration of Rio and and allows us to innovate faster and support a lifelong learning discussed customer feedback and steps taken to improve ecosystem for learners.
As the GLP is a key customer and learning experiences and better outcomes on the GLP across learner-facing element of the transformation programme, Pearson.
In addition, the SVP AI Products and Solutions, who it remains an item closely monitored by the Board.
The Board joined Pearson this July to lead our newly formed AI Products continued to receive regular updates throughout the year, and Solutions team, also presented a strategy and roadmap for which enabled them to monitor the progress of Pearsons artificial intelligence-based product development to the Board.
delivery of agreed metrics for growing market share through digital transformation.
At each meeting, the Board was joined by the President of Global Product and by the Chief Technology and Operations Officer to review the development of the GLP, including progress of the Rio Limited Pilot, a new mastery-based developmental maths product, and Revel, our next-generation US higher education digital courseware product.
At its meeting in May, the Board reviewed the learnings from the Digital Advisory Network and considered Pearsons digital transformation in the context of building the GLP.
Throughout the year, the Board assessed Pearsons strategy and three-year 1 Grow market share through digital transformation Link to strategic priorities, see p20 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 87 87 As well as Board and Executive management succession, the Board Succession planning also oversees our leadership pipeline.
In December, the Boards The Board considers oversight of succession planning as one of its discussions on succession planning focused on the executive prime responsibilities, assisted by the Nomination & Governance pipeline from which the future leaders of Pearson were likely to Committee.
The Company has formal contingency plans in place emerge, both at PEM level and other key roles.
Strong successors for the temporary absence of the Chief Executive for health or have been identified for PEM roles and future considerations have other reasons.
The matter of Chief Executive succession is a been taken into account in identifying successors both immediately standing item for discussion and review by the Chair and the Board below PEM level and those who would be ready to take up a annually.
Succession planning for the Board and Chair is also PEM-level position in one or two moves.
A diverse pipeline of ready considered annually by the full Board and on an ongoing basis by later emerging talent has been identified, and plans are put in place the Nomination & Governance Committee.
There is also discussion to accelerate their path to succession where possible.
The Company and oversight of key positions at Executive management level, also has targeted development programmes for high-potential including the recent appointment of a new Chief Corporate Affairs talent, mentorship programmes for senior women leaders as well Officer.
In early 2018, Pearson recruited a Chief Strategy Officer as a Managers Fundamentals programme for middle management.
and a new Chief Human Resources Officer.
As we continue to transform the business at Pearson, the new members of the Executive team had a key role to play in our strategic planning process and in succession planning and fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion.
Board in action Online Program Management Pearson considers Online Program Management OPM, virtual schools, professional certification and English language learning to be among its biggest growth opportunities.
In light of this potential, OPM continued to be a regular reporting item on the Boards agenda for 2018.
During the year, the Board considered Pearsons prospects in the OPM business, and spent some time reviewing the business model, some proposed operational improvements and the existing contract pipeline.
At its meeting in June, the Board conducted a deeper dive into the global operations strategy of the OPM business, and with the Executive team also discussed leveraging learnings more widely.
This included a consideration of how Pearsons expertise in courseware and assessment could continue to Studying an online degree powered by Pearson Online Program Management, support partners in the development and delivery of online at Maryville University see p06 programmes that demonstrate innovation and superior student learning experiences.
OPM was also discussed in relation to the three-year planning process, with the Board focusing on the operating model for the business and considering the impact of the very specific economics of a typical OPM contract.
2 Invest in structural growth markets Link to strategic priorities, see p22 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 88 Board governance and activities Directors indemnities Board Committees A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the The Board has established four formal Committees: Audit, Articles and sections 232 and 234 of the Act, has been granted by Nomination & Governance, Remuneration, and Reputation & the Company to each of its Directors.
Under the provisions of the Responsibility.
The Chairs and members of these Committees QTPI, the Company undertakes to indemnify each Director against are appointed by the Board on the recommendation where liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties appropriate of the Nomination & Governance Committee and and to pay Directors costs as incurred, provided that they are inconsultation with each relevant Committee Chair.
Inaddition to reimbursed to the Company if the Director is found guilty, the court these formal Board Committees, the Standing Committee also refuses to grant the relief sought or, in an action brought by the operates with Board-level input.
Company, judgement is given against the Director.
The indemnity Learnmore about Pearsons governance structure on p83 has been in force for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 and is currently in force.
The Company has purchased and maintains Directors and Officers insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in connection with any act or omission by such Directors and Officers in the execution of their duties.
Board in action Simplification programme In 2017, we announced plans to reduce Pearsons cost The Board receives regular updates on the simplification base by a further 300m exiting 2019.
In January 2019, programme through the dashboard and key milestones we announced that we are saving ahead of that plan, and now report as well as updates from the Chief Executive and expect to deliver increased annualised cost savingsin excess Chief Financial Officer at every Board meeting.
At the Board of 330m by the end of 2019.
During the year, the Board had meeting in June, each member of the Executive team provided an oversight of the planned implementation of finance and an update on their particular function or business units operations systems throughout our North American business, describing their initiatives, outcomes and efficiencies arising enabling us to adjust the cost base in our US Higher Education from the simplification programme.
The Board believes that courseware business.
The programme also includes the changes arising from the simplification programme will simplification of our technology architecture which has help Pearson speed up innovation, provide better customer facilitated the increased use of shared service centres and experiences, eliminate duplication and increase scalability in automation, enabling us to standardise processes and reduce the long-term.
This has also enabled us to develop centralised procurement and reduce our number of office locations.
3 Become a simpler, moreefficient and more sustainable business Link to strategic priorities, see p24 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 89 89 More Committee information: Audit Committee p96 Nomination & Governance Committee p90 Remuneration Committee p110 Reputation & Responsibility Committee p106 Standing Committee p84 The Committees focus on their own areas of expertise, enabling the Board meetings to focus on strategy, performance, leadership and people, governance and risk, and shareholder engagement, thereby making the best use of the Boards time together as a whole.
The Committee Chairs report to the full Board at each Board meeting immediately following their sessions, ensuring a good communication flow while retaining the ability to escalate items to the full Boards agenda if appropriate.
Directors training and induction All Directors receive training in the form of presentations about The bespoke induction programme the Companys operations, through Board meetings held at was terrific.
It provided me with helpful operational locations and by encouraging the Directors to visit insights into Pearson with a range of local facilities and management as and when their schedule topics and meetings with both internal allows, including if they are travelling to a country or region on stakeholders and company advisers.
The Company Secretary and General I found the meetings with division heads Counsel, in conjunction with Pearsons advisers, monitor legal particularly useful in developing my and governance developments and update the Board on such understanding of the drivers of matters as agreed with the Chair.
As part of the Boards focus Pearsons businesses.
It was extremely important to undertake on diversity and inclusion, the Directors received an overview this induction programme, and Im sure the knowledge Ive of the training on unconscious bias which is being delivered to gained through the programme has helped me in making an employees, and participated in elements of this programme.
effective contribution to the Board during my first year.
Michael Lynton Our Directors can also make use of external courses.
Directors receive a significant bespoke induction programme and a range of information about Pearson when they join the Board.
The induction included meetings with other Board members, This includes background information on Pearson and details business area familiarisation with members of the Pearson of Board procedures, Directors responsibilities and various Executive, a briefing on Directors duties and sessions with the governance-related issues, including procedures for dealing SVP Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk, SVP Investor Relations, in Pearson shares and their legal obligations as Directors.
and MD, Pearson Online Learning Services.
The Company The induction also typically includes a series of meetings with Secretary sought Michaels feedback following completion of members of the Board, external legal advisers and brokers, his induction programme.
Michael was very positive about the the Pearson Executive and senior management, presentations benefits of the programme, and suggested a small number of regarding the business from senior executives and a briefing enhancements based on his own experience.
These suggestions on Pearsons investor relations programme.
will be taken into account by the Nomination & Governance Committee as it continues to oversee the format of the The induction programme for Michael Lynton, our most recently Non-Executive Director induction.
appointed Non-Executive Director, took place in 2018.
A tailored and bespoke induction programme was designed for him which aligned with the Boards focus areas.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 90 Nomination & Governance Committee report Role and business of the Committee Committee Chair The Committee monitors the composition and balance of the Board Vivienne Cox and of its Committees, identifying and recommending to the Board Members the appointment of new Directors and or Committee members.
Elizabeth Corley, Vivienne Cox, Josh The Committee has oversight of the Companys compliance with, Lewis, Tim Score and Sidney Taurel and approach to, all applicable regulation and guidance related to corporate governance matters.
The Committee also oversees talent and succession plans for senior roles.
The Committee comprises four independent NonExecutive Directors and the Chair of the Board.
The Chief Executive Committee responsibilities include: and other senior management, including the Chief Human Resources Officer, attend Committee meetings by invitation.
Appointments Identifying and nominating candidates for Board vacancies.
Areas of focus during 2018 During 2018, the Committees areas of focus included oversight Balance of the annual Board evaluation process, reviewing Committee Ensuring that the Board and its Committees have the appropriate membership and Committee remits in order to ensure balanced balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity and knowledge remits and composition of all Committees, and reviewing its own to operate effectively.
The Committee also conducted a benchmarking exercise in respect of the frequency and duration of Board meetings Succession and the Committee was satisfied that the Board had sufficient Reviewing the Companys leadership needs with a view to meeting time under the current arrangements.
ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete in the marketplace.
At its February meeting, the Committee considered arrangements for the induction of new Non-Executive Directors, including finalising Governance Michael Lyntons induction programme.
The Committee also had Review and oversight of Pearsons corporate governance framework, oversight of Non-Executive Director succession planning and search Board evaluation and training plans, and Board diversity policy.
activity, and this was a regular agenda item throughout the year.
At its December meeting, the Committee received an update from Terms of reference the Chief Human Resources Officer and SVP, Diversity & Inclusion The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out its about Pearsons detailed action plan to address the gender pay gap.
These are reviewed annually and can be found on In addition, the Committee received an update on planned events the Company website www.
scheduled for 2019 for next-generation female executives, delivering upon a recommendation by Committee member Elizabeth Corley.
Committee attendance The Board also devoted time to diversity and inclusion initiatives Attendance by Directors at Nomination & Governance Committee across the business see overleaf for further detail.
meetings throughout 2018: Meetings attended The Committee also considered the Companys corporate Elizabeth Corley 4 4 governance framework in light of the new UK Corporate Governance Code which took effect for Pearson from 1 January 2019.
We will Vivienne Cox 4 4 report in accordance with the 2018 Code in the 2019 annual report, Josh Lewis 4 4 and you can read more about our preparation for the new UK 1 Harish Manwani 2 2 Corporate Governance Code on p93.
Tim Score 4 4 Sidney Taurel 4 4 Board search 1 Mr Manwani stepped down from the Committee on 4 May 2018.
Pearson uses a number of leading firms in its Board search activities and ensures that we retain good relationships with them.
Acting on the results of the 2017 Board evaluation, the Committee has paid particular attention to Non-Executive Director succession planning, including for future Committee chairs.
Accordingly, during the year, the Committee undertook a market study for potential search firms Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 9 91 1 and reviewed the process by which it will select candidates.
Nomination & Governance Committee The Committee also agreed upon specific criteria for potential new Non-Executive Directors, in particular giving consideration to the meeting focus during 2018 skills and experience required in any candidates.
Pearson expects all Non-Executive Directors to demonstrate the highest level of Appointments integrity and credibility, independence of judgement, maturity, collegiality, a high interest in education and the commitment to Ongoing search for potential Non-Executive Directors devote the necessary time.
Balance Taking into account the agreed person specification as well as diversity in its broadest sense, in 2018 the Committee engaged Agreement of desired skills and experience of new Non-Executive Directors Russell Reynolds Associates to undertake a search process for new Non-Executive Directors.
In addition to the Non-Executive Director Update on diversity and inclusion initiatives at Pearson search process, Russell Reynolds Associates undertakes broader executive search activity for the Group, and is a signatory to the Succession Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
Succession planning and updates on search for Non-Executive Directors Committee evaluation Induction outline for Non-Executive Directors The Committee undertook an annual evaluation to review its Governance own performance and effectiveness.
The process involved the distribution of questionnaires to Committee members, as well as Consideration of Board evaluation feedback key stakeholders, seeking views on matters including Committee Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code roles and responsibilities, quality and timeliness of meeting Oversight of development of the employee engagement network materials, opportunity for discussion and debate, dialogue with Schedule and length of meetings management and access to independent advice.
Responses were Approval of Committee terms of reference then evaluated and presented to the Committee at a scheduled meeting, with key themes being drawn out for discussion.
The Committee was considered to have operated effectively throughout 2018 with a clear agenda and effective leadership.
In response to the findings of the 2018 evaluation, and as part of its forward planning for the 2019 agenda, the Committee will continue to devote time to Board succession planning, including for Committee Chair positions, and has agreed that its focus on the requirements of the new UK Corporate Governance Code will continue to be a priority in 2019.
The Company Secretary will ensure that meeting frequency and time allocation remains appropriate to achieve these aims.
The Committee has also given consideration to the processes relating to Non-Executive Director search activity, which was a particular recommendation arising from its 2018 evaluation.
Committee aims for 2019 We will have a full agenda for 2019, with a particular focus on implementation of changes to the corporate governance framework including establishment of the employee engagement network, Non-Executive Directors succession planning activity, Board diversity and inclusion plan and findings of the Board evaluation.
Vivienne Cox Chair of Nomination & Governance Committee Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 92 Nomination & Governance Committee report Diversity The Board embraces the Codes underlying principles with the Board diversity and inclusion policy, we are committed regard to Board balance and diversity, including in respect to work towards the recommendations suggested by the of ethnicity, gender and age.
The objectives set out in the Hampton-Alexander Review aimed at having at least Boards diversity and inclusion D&I policy and our progress 33% female representation on the Board by 2020. towards these objectives are shown in the table below.
During the year, the Board received an overview of the training The Committee ensures that the Directors of Pearson on unconscious bias which is being delivered to employees demonstrate a broad balance of skills, background and and participated in elements of this programme.
The Board experience, to support Pearsons strategic development received a detailed progress update in December on the and reflect the global nature of our business.
The Committee Companys refreshed diversity and inclusion strategic also ensures that appointments are made on merit and approach, framework, governance and measurement models relevant experience, while taking into account the broadest and 2019 priority areas.
The Board also received an update definition of diversity.
In the ongoing Non-Executive Director on a new internal mentoring scheme, and agreed to join the search process, emphasis is given to candidates who would programme whereby each Director is paired with a highenhance the overall diversity of the Board.
potential Senior Vice President female leader at Pearson.
The gender diversity of the Board was 30% female This launched at the end of 2018 and runs through 2019. representation as at 31 December 2018.
However, as noted in Board diversity & inclusion objectives The Committee has agreed the following objectives to support the Board diversity & inclusion policy: Objectives Progress We will strive to maintain a Board composition of: 25% female Directors achieved.
At least 25% female Directors, with a target of at least 33% female Directors by 2020 Board includes one Director who identifies At least one Director of colour.
as Mixed White & Black Caribbean.
All Board appointments will be made on merit, in the context of the skills and relevant Achieved.
Rigorous process used during experience that are needed for the Board to oversee Pearsons strategic development recent search for Michael Lynton who has and that reflect the global nature of our business.
The Board will prioritise use of search firms which adhere to the Voluntary Code of Achieved.
Conduct for Executive Search Firms when seeking to make Board-level appointments.
The Board will continue to adopt best practice, as appropriate, in response to the The recommendations of the Davies Review, Davies Review, the Hampton Alexander Review and the Parker Review.
Hampton Alexander Review and Parker Review in respect of gender and ethnic diversity have been noted by the Board.
Where appropriate, we will assist with the development and support of initiatives that promote Board mentoring scheme of senior all forms of diversity and inclusion in the Board, Pearson Executive and our senior management.
Diversity and talent in Executive pipeline Our Code of Conduct sets out our global standards and women out of ten members 20% this excludes the Chief responsibilities with regard to D&I at all employee levels, including Executive and Chief Financial Officer who are counted in the the Pearson Executive, and covers many aspects, including Boards metric.
The senior leadership group, comprising the gender, age, ethnicity, disability and sexual orientation.
This is direct reports of the Pearson Executive, had 31% female underpinned by a global statement on D&I along with country representation as of 31 December 2018. and business specific policies.
A new Global Diversity and We believe that we have a multi-pronged plan in place to build Inclusion Council is launching in early 2019 and will be chaired our pipeline of women in leadership and senior management by Chief Executive, John Fallon.
For more information on the positions, and the Board and Committee will carefully monitor Companys approach to diversity and inclusion, please see their development, and the development of all key talent.
Pearson published its first gender pay gap report in Great We are a founder member of the 30% Club and the Chief Executive Britain in March 2018 and has made a commitment to extend has also signed a personal commitment to set an aspirational our gender pay reporting globally by 2020.
Read more about target of at least 30% women in Pearsons senior management our initiatives to address the gender pay gap on p38.
On our Executive team, there are currently two Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 93 93 Preparation for the new UK Corporate Governance Code The new UK Corporate Governance Code the 2018 Code cultural diversity as well as length of service.
The network applies to Pearson from the 2019 financial year.
To ensure is expected to meet twice a year with periodic rotation of appropriate preparations were made in advance of the employee representatives in order to bring different employee effective date, the Nomination & Governance Committee perspectives to the group.
The network will also provide received a briefing from the Company Secretary shortly after an opportunity to gain additional insight on how to enhance the publication of the 2018 Code on key themes and the main employee satisfaction and work effectiveness within Pearson areas of change.
At its next meeting, the Committee considered and help engage and retain high performers.
The Committee a detailed comparative analysis of Pearsons existing corporate agreed to oversee the governance framework for workforce governance practices against the 2018 Code.
The report engagement on behalf of the Board however, any employee highlighted areas of particular focus or change between views arising through the network or other means would the 2016 and 2018 Codes, as well as areas where Pearson remain a matter for the Board as a whole.
was already in compliance with proposed new principles Pearsons engagement and communications with broader and provisions.
stakeholder groups, including customers, suppliers and The Committee was satisfied that there were no particular communities, sit within the remit of the Reputation & areas of concern within the 2018 Code and that Pearsons Responsibility Committee.
The Reputation & Responsibility corporate governance practices were already of a standard Committee therefore agreed to continue to oversee the to ensure compliance with the majority of the 2018 Code.
governance framework for stakeholder engagement within The Committee then discussed in further detail the specific Pearson as required by the 2018 Code, and agreed a proposal areas where it believed further steps could be taken to that a detailed stakeholder engagement mapping exercise ensure a robust response to the 2018 Code.
be undertaken with input from Global Corporate Affairs and Marketing.
The Reputation & Responsibility Committee will consider the outputs of this exercise at its first meeting of 2019.
Stakeholder engagement The Committee considered the 2018 Codes focus on the Other key items considered importance of the stakeholder voice in the boardroom, as well as increased legislative disclosures in this regard for Pearson Other actions arising in connection with the Committees and a number of its UK subsidiaries.
preparations for the 2018 Code include: The Committee noted that Pearson already uses a wide range The Committee is mindful of the 2018 Codes attention to of mechanisms to engage with employees, including town halls, Directors commitments and has agreed a form of internal global conversations, employee resource groups, employee guidance to be taken into account when considering changes engagement and organisational health surveys, as well as to a Directors commitments, or when appointing a new the Board having the opportunity to engage both formally and Director, as well as formalising the Board approval process informally with the workforce during events such as Board site for such matters visits and talent breakfasts.
The Committee agreed that existing The Senior Independent Directors duties and mechanisms provide sufficiently effective ways for the Board responsibilities have been formalised, as suggested by the to keep a pulse on the organisation and on employees views 2018 Code, and are available on the Company website at on Pearsons strategy, communications, compensation and www.
com governance benefits, and the senior leadership team overall.
However, in the spirit of the 2018 Code, the Committee reviewed and The Committee agreed that the Remuneration Committee approved a proposal on an additional mechanism an will be responsible for ensuring compliance with Section 5 Employee Engagement Network as a means for the Board of the 2018 Code.
to hear directly from employees.
The network will include a We will report in accordance with the 2018 Code in our Non-Executive Director, an Executive Director, Human 2019 annual report.
Resources Executive, and a group of employees from across Pearson reflecting geographical, generational, operational and Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 94 Board evaluation Board evaluation Individual evaluation The Board evaluation for 2018 was an internally facilitated process In addition to the evaluation of the Board as a whole, Executive led by the Nomination & Governance Committee with support Directors are evaluated each year on their overall performance from the Company Secretary, and conducted by means of a tailored against goals agreed by the Board, and in respect of personal questionnaire.
The Nomination & Governance Committee spent objectives under the Companys annual incentive plan.
These goals time during 2018 in scoping the evaluation and reviewed the and objectives are linked to certain strategic metrics, including headlines at its meeting in December 2018.
The Committee will efficiency and cost saving initiatives, driving the digital agenda develop an action plan to address areas for improvement and and growing market opportunities.
Progress against each of these will monitor progress during the year.
Key findings included: metrics is reviewed by the Board on a regular basis, as part of the dashboard of KPIs which we believe to be central to Board members were supportive of work undertaken during the Pearsons turnaround.
year in continuing to develop and articulate the strategy, with this being identified by a number of Directors as a key achievement The Chair meets with each Non-Executive Director individually upon which the Company would continue to build on a regular basis and, in assessing the contribution of each, has confirmed that each Director continues to make a significant The Boards agenda was felt to be well prioritised with the key contribution to the business and deliberations of the Board.
issues covered to an appropriate level of detail and a good balance At least once a year, the Chairs meetings with individual Nonof strategic, operational, financial and governance matters Executive Directors include reciprocal feedback on the functioning of the Board, to augment the collective Board evaluation process.
The main areas identified by the Board for continued focus during The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent 2019 were leadership development and succession planning, Director, also conduct an annual review of the Chairs performance, culture, the competitive landscape and customer views.
with the Senior Independent Director providing feedback from In addition to leading the 2018 process, the Nomination & this review to the Chair.
Governance Committee also gave consideration to the ongoing evaluation cycle.
The Committee agreed that a three-yearly cycle Committee evaluation utilising a variety of methodologies would be appropriate to ensure the most effective evaluation outcomes.
The planned cycle is: All Committees undertake an annual evaluation process to review their performance and effectiveness.
For 2018, the process was Year 1 in-depth evaluation, externally facilitated facilitated internally by the Chair and Secretary of each Committee undertaken in 2017 through use of a tailored questionnaire, the findings of which were Year 2 questionnaire, tailored to specific needs of the business discussed at a subsequent meeting of each Committee.
Read more undertaken in 2018 on this in the Committees reports.
Year 3 internally facilitated interview, to be led by the Chair, Senior Independent Director and or Company Secretary as appropriate due in 2019.
A number of actions were taken during the year in response to findings arising from the 2017 externally facilitated Board evaluation process.
You can read more about progress on these in the table opposite.
The Committee confirmed that these items, as well as those identified in the 2016 evaluation, had been addressed to its satisfaction, with recommendations having been put into practice or a clear action plan identified.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 95 95 Progress on findings of 2017 evaluation Finding Response Action taken Ensure ongoing strategic The new Chief Strategy Officer led a process to capture strategic perspectives from all Board development aligned with business members, as well as senior leaders across Pearson.
The outputs from this work formed the basis of transformation strategy.
the five-year strategic plan which was discussed by the Board in July 2018, with detailed follow-up sessions later in the year.
The Board also examined the three-year and one-year plans based on the five-year vision.
Ensure continued understanding by The Chair and Executive Directors meet with significant shareholders regularly and feed back to the Board of significant shareholders the Board.
The Board and Nomination & Governance Committee also receive regular updates on views to encourage constructive correspondence and other meetings with significant shareholders.
dialogue and clear communication Investor sessions facilitated by Investor Relations allowed shareholders to meet with the President of strategy.
Global Product, President North America, and Chief Technology & Operations Officer, to better understand Pearsons strategy on our digital transformation and simplification.
Investor engagement will be kept under review with the possibility of further sessions between investors and senior leaders to be considered during 2019.
Board succession planning should Committee Chair succession is regularly reviewed by the Nomination & Governance Committee, consider future Committee Chairs, and forms part of the broader Non-Executive Director succession planning process.
Specific desired and other desirable experience in experience is taken into consideration and built into the specifications in any Non-Executive Director new Board members.
New Chief Human Resources Officer to Initial observations were discussed by the Board in May 2018, with a follow-up review of progress continue executive succession planning taking place in October 2018.
This is planned to be an annual item for substantial discussion by and complete a talent review aligned to the Board.
the strategic needs of the business.
Ongoing Board education to continue to The competitive landscape formed part of strategy discussions throughout 2018 and will continue focus on the competitive landscape and to do so.
A formal update on the Digital Advisory network was provided to the Board in May 2018, digital technologies.
and informal updates on the work of the network are provided to the Board on a regular basis.
