PIGIT pp17 34. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 18 GOVERNANCE THE COMPANYS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board and Committees Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The governance framework of the Company reflects the fact that as an Investment Company it has no employees and outsources investment management to the Manager and administration to the Manager and other external service providers.
The Board Six non-executive directors Chairman Richard Laing Key objectives: to set strategy, values and standards: to provide leadership within a framework of prudent effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: and to challenge constructively and scrutinise performance of all outsourced activities.
Management Audit Nominations Remuneration Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Function Function page 20 page 24 page 24 page 24 Chairman Chairman The Board as a whole The Board as a whole performs this function performs this function Richard Laing Victoria Cochrane Other members: Other members: Mike Balfour Mike Balfour Vivian Bazalgette Vivian Bazalgette Victoria Cochrane Alan Giles Alan Giles Key objective: Key objectives: Key objective: Key objectives: to review regularly to set the to oversee the to review regularly the Boards remuneration policy control environment the management structure and of the Company.
and financial contract and the composition: and reporting: and performance of the to make to review other Manager.
recommendations service providers, for any changes or including the new appointments.
The Portfolio Manager The portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, is based in Henley-on-Thames.
Mark is Head of UK Equities and the teams most experienced fund manager, specialising in UK equity income investing.
In this role, Mark is responsible for the management of a number of UK equity portfolios, which comprise both open and closed ended vehicles.
Mark joined Perpetual in 1996 and has been the investment manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust since 1999.
Mark started his investment career in 1992 at Mercury Asset Management.
He graduated in French and Politics from Reading University in 1992 and has passed the associated examinations of the Association for Investment Management and Research AIMR now CFA Institute.
Martin Walker has been appointed deputy portfolio manager for this Company.
He a member of Mark Barnetts UK Equities team and is responsible for the management of a number of UK equity portfolios.
He began his investment career in 1997 after previous experience as an investment analyst with BWD Rensburg.
Martin joined Invesco in 1999 and has managed UK equity portfolios since 2003.
Martin holds a BA in Financial Economics from Liverpool University and has also attained the Securities Institute Diploma.
