PIGIT pp17 34. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 19 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2018 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Directors have considered the principles and recommendations of the latest AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment companies.
The AIC Code is available from the Association of Investment Companies website www.
The UK Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except the provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, being an externally managed investment company.
All of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
Information on how the Company has applied the principles of the AIC Code and the UK Code follows: The composition and operation of the Board and its committees are summarised on page 18, and page 20 in respect of the Audit Committee.
The Companys approach to internal control and risk management is summarised on pages 21 and 22.
The contractual arrangements with, and assessment of, the Manager are summarised on page27.
The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised on page 29.
The most substantial shareholders in the Company are listed on page 29.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are discussed on page 25.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares, which are sought annually, require shareholders approval.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19
