PIGIT pp17 34. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 20 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2017 The Audit Committee is chaired by Victoria Cochrane, who succeeded Richard Laing on 11 July 2017.
Other members throughout the year were Vivian Bazalgette, and Alan Giles.
Bill Alexander, Richard Laing and Mike Balfour were also members for part of the year.
The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, are compliant with the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance.
Audit Committee Duties The Committees main duties include: review throughout the year of the Companys risk matrix and risk control summary and the effectiveness of internal control, together with consideration of the Managers and external service providers control reports and review of the depositarys annual report: consideration of the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit and compliance departments, and the results therefrom: also review of the effectiveness of the Managers internal audit: review of the Managers whistleblowing arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in relation to the Company: review of the half year results and the annual financial statements including: compliance with relevant statute and listing requirements: the appropriateness of accounting policies: any financial judgements and key assumptions: disclosures in relation to internal controls and risk management, going concern and the long-term viability of the Company: and advising the Board, at its request, on whether the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable: consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit, items for audit focus and discussion of the audit findings: consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: and making recommendations to the Board in respect of the auditors appointment, reappointment and removal and agreeing the terms of their audit engagement, as well as any recommendation of non-audit services.
Representatives of the auditor attended a Committee meeting to present their audit plan, and another at which the draft annual financial report was reviewed.
They were also given the opportunity to speak to Committee members without the presence of representatives of the Manager.
The Committee met three times in the year in the performance of its duties.
It has direct access to the auditor and representatives of the Manager, including the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit personnel, who attended two Committee meetings, one meeting being prior to approval and signature of the annual financial report.
The Committee reviewed reports on the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company and the systems of internal controls in place.
The Committee also received a briefing on cyber security.
The Committee has direct access to the depositary which provided a report to the Committee at the meeting at which the year end accounts were discussed.
Accounting Matters and Significant Areas of Focus For the year end, the accounting matters that were identified for specific consideration by the Committee follow: SIGNIFICANT AREA HOW ADDRESSED Accuracy of the portfolio Actively traded listed investments are valued using stock exchange prices valuation, with emphasis on provided by third party pricing vendors.
Investments that are unlisted or investments that are not not actively traded are valued using a variety of techniques to determine listed, or are listed but not a fair value, as set out in the accounting polices, and all such valuations regularly traded.
are reviewed by the Managers pricing committee and the Committee.
20 PIGIT pp17 34. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 21 GOVERNANCE SIGNIFICANT AREA HOW ADDRESSED Proof of existence of The Manager and the depositary confirmed that the accounting investments.
records correctly recorded all investee holdings and that these had been agreed to custodian records.
The recognition of income is undertaken in accordance with accounting policy note 1 g on page 45.
The Committee satisfied itself that adequate systems were in place for the complete and proper recording of income, including the analysis of special dividends received.
These matters were discussed with the Manager and the auditor in pre year end audit planning, and were satisfactorily addressed through consideration of reports provided by, and discussed with, the Manager and the auditor at the conclusion of the audit process.
The Audit Committee advised the Board that, following a thorough review of the 2018 annual financial report, the report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Review of the External Auditor, including Effectiveness and Non-Audit Services This years audit of the Companys annual financial report was the third performed by Ernst & Young LLP since they were appointed following a tender process in 2015.
The Committee evaluated the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor for the year under review.
This included a review of the audit planning, execution and reporting, the quality of the audit work and the auditors independence.
The provision of non-audit services is considered by the Committee on a case-by-case basis, and consideration is given as to whether the skills and experience of the auditor make them a suitable supplier of such services and to ensure that there is no resultant threat to the objectivity and independence of the audit.
No such fees arose during the year.
Non-audit services up to 5,000 do not require advance approval by the Audit Committee: amounts in excess of this require the approval of the Audit Committee.
Audit Information The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the major risks faced by the Company and this forms the basis of the Boards robust assessment of the risks to which the Company is exposed.
Risks are reviewed by means of the Companys risk matrix and its risk control summary RCS which sets out mitigating controls and the information flow to the Committee and Directors.
The principal risks of the Company, as set out in the Strategic Report on pages 12 to 14 are mapped to the RCS for completeness.
These risks encompass those arising in relation to the Companys operations that are, of necessity as an externally managed investment trust, contracted to external service providers.
These external service providers comprise the Manager to whom responsibility both for the Companys portfolio and for the provision of company secretarial and administrative services are delegated accounts administrator, custodian, registrar and corporate broker.
Systems are in operation to safeguard the Companys assets, to maintain proper accounting records and to ensure that financial information is reliable.
The Committee has received and considered, together with representatives of the Manager, reports by independent external accountants in relation to the operational systems of financial and non-financial internal controls of the Manager, accounts administrator, custodian and registrar and has concluded that they should operate effectively.
On a formal and regular basis the Committee reviews the performance of these service providers in relation PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 PIGIT pp17 34. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 22 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued to agreed service standards, and any issues and concerns are dealt with promptly and reported to the Board.
The Committee also reviewed an annual report from the depositary which monitors the Companys stock, cash, borrowings and published investment limits throughout the year.
None of these reviews identified any issues of significance during the year.
Additionally, the depositary and the auditor have direct access to the Chairman or Audit Committee Chairman about any concerns: no issues arose in the year that caused the depositary to use this access.
Internal Audit Due to the nature of the Company, being an externally managed investment company with no executive employees, and in view of the Manager having an internal audit function, the Company does not have its own internal audit function.
I will be present at the AGM and will be available at that meeting or thereafter to answer questions relating to the annual financial report.
I look forward to seeing shareholders there.
Victoria Cochrane Chairman of the Audit Committee 30 May 2018 22
