56 DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD LEADERSHIP BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board consists of a Chairman, RogerDevlin: two Executive Directors, DaveJenkinson andMikeKilloran: and four Independent Non-Executive Directors, Nigel Mills, who isthe SeniorIndependent Director, Marion Sears, Rachel Kentleton and Simon Litherland.
Roger Devlin Dave Jenkinson Chairman age 61 Group Chief Executive age 51 Date of appointment 1 June 2018 Date of appointment 13 December 2013 Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member of the Member of the Risk Committee.
Experience Trustee of the Persimmon Charitable Foundation.
Dave Jenkinson joined the Group in 1997 and became the Managing Director of the North East operating business in 2005.
He was promoted Experience to Regional Managing Director in 2007, North Division Chief Executive in Roger Devlin was independent on appointment and has extensive 2013 and Group Managing Director on 7 January 2017.
He was appointed business, leadership and governance experience, having held executive Group Chief Executive from 26 February 2019. and non-executive roles in sectors such as corporate finance, gaming, leisure, pubs & brewing, sport and transport.
Skills and contribution Dave has extensive housebuilding experience and, as a qualified town Roger is an experienced Chairman and is currently theChairman of planner, has particular strengths in land buying and development.
Rogers previous appointments include Chairman of Having spent over 20 years at Persimmon Dave is an expert in the Marstons PLC and Senior Independent Director at the Football Association.
operations of the Group and has an excellent understanding of the Groups Skills and contribution customers and our wider stakeholders.
Daves leadership and personal Rogers wealth of experience gives him a strong understanding of qualities, combined with his industry expertise, enable him to drive the corporate governance, banking and finance, customer propositions development and execution of the Groups strategy.
Rogers expertise and personal qualities enable him to effectively lead the Board and contribute towards the development and execution of the Groups strategy by building strong relationships, facilitating open and productive debate and providing constructive challenge where necessary.
Rachel Kentleton Simon Litherland Independent Non-Executive Director age 50 Independent Non-Executive Director age 54 Date of appointment 24 June 2015 Date of appointment 3 April 2017 Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Risk, Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Experience Experience Simon Litherland is the Chief Executive of Britvic plc.
He qualified as a Rachel Kentleton, a qualified accountant, is the Finance Director at Chartered Accountant with Deloitte and has over 25 years experience in PayPoint plc.
Rachel has a breadth of business experience, having finance and leadership roles within the drinks manufacturing and previously been Group Director, Strategy & Implementation at easyJet and distribution sector.
Prior to joining Britvic in 2011 Simon worked for global having held finance roles at Unilever, NatWest, Diageo and SABMiller.
drinks manufacturer Diageo plc, spending 20 years managing several of the companys international business units, ultimately becoming Managing Skills and contribution Director of Diageo Great Britain.
Having worked in various customer facing businesses Rachel has significant knowledge of strategy, organisational change, operations and Skills and contribution technology.
This, together with her extensive investor relations and Simon is an accomplished Executive with proven finance, leadership and financial experience, adds to the balance of skills and experience of the business skills in a consumer facing industry.
His strong understanding of Board and greatly benefits the implementation of the Groups strategy and branding and customer propositions adds to the skillset of the Board and the development of our business.
enables him to make a valuable contribution to the development and implementation of the Groups strategy.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 57 Marion Sears Mike Killoran ACA Nigel Mills Independent Non-Executive Group Finance Director age 57 Senior Independent Director Director age 56 age 63 Date of appointment 4 January 1999 Date of appointment 8 January 2013 Date of appointment 4 April 2016 Committee membership Member of the Risk Committee.
Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration and Corporate Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Trustee of the Persimmon Charitable Foundation.
Responsibility Committees and a member of the Committees.
Experience Audit and Nomination Committees.
Experience Mike Killoran joined the Company in 1996.
Trustee of the Persimmon Charitable Foundation.
Nigel Mills is a Senior Advisor at Citigroup A chartered accountant by profession, Mike Global Markets and was previously Chairman of worked in manufacturing, distribution and retail Experience Corporate Broking at Citi between 2005-2015 sectors before joining the Group.
He took over Marion Sears is a Non-Executive Director of and Chief Executive at Hoare Govett between his present role in April 1999.
Dunelm Group Plc and of investment company 1995-2005.
He has extensive experience in WA Capital Limited.
She is also a Non-Executive Skills and contribution advising some of the UKs largest companies.
Director of investment trusts Fidelity European Mike has extensive financial and operational Values Plc and Aberdeen New Dawn Investment skills and over 20 years experience and Skills and contribution Trust PLC.
Marion previously held executive knowledge of both the housebuilding industry Nigel has sound commercial judgement drawing positions at Glaxo, UBS, Baring Brothers and and the Group.
Mike makes a valuable on a 30-year career advising quoted companies.
contribution towards the long term success of He has broad experience of financial markets, the Group: his expert knowledge of our cyclical strategy, risk, shareholder attitudes and Skills and contribution industry is important to the Groups risk corporate governance which enable him to Marion has extensive retail industry knowledge management and key to the development and provide sound advice to the Board.
and customer understanding together with execution of our strategy.
an all-round view of the consumer markets.
She has a strong understanding of shareholder views, corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Her financial background and Non-Executive Director Tenure Current Board Gender Diversity current involvement inboth the consumer at 31 December 2018 % % and investment industries enable her to provide sound advice and judgement on the development and implementation of the 28 60 Groups strategy.
72 40 0-3 years 3-6 years Female Male Board meeting attendance 2018 Meetings Percentage of Member Current position attended meetings attended Roger Devlin Chairman 5 5 100% Dave Jenkinson Group Chief Executive 7 7 100% Mike Killoran Group Finance Director 7 7 100% Nigel Mills Senior Independent Director 7 7 100% Marion Sears Independent Non-Executive Director 7 7 100% Rachel Kentleton Independent Non-Executive Director 7 7 100% Simon Litherland Independent Non-Executive Director 7 7 100% Roger Devlin was appointed on 1 June 2018.
N icholas Wrigley resigned from the Board on Nicholas Wrigley Former Chairman 0 1 0% 26 February 2018.
Jeff Fairburn Former Group Chief Executive 6 7 85% Jeff Fairburn left the Group on 31 December 2018.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
