20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 28 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE length of their service as Auditor.
The Audit Committee considered each of the tender submissions in detail and reThe Audit Committee, chaired by Jean Sharp and comprisceived presentations in November 2017.
As a result of this ing Ms Sharp, Iain Ferguson and Frank Rushbrook, meets process, the Audit Committee found that the experience at least twice yearly to coincide with the annual and interim demonstrated within the investment trust sector as well as reporting cycle.
Stuart Paul also served on the Committee the strength of the overall audit team at PwC LLP would during the year until his retirement.
The principal rle of the be the most suitable to the Companys requirements.
It was Audit Committee is to review the annual and interim finantherefore agreed to recommend to the Board that PwC cial statements, the Accounting Policies applied therein and LLP be appointed as Auditor.
A resolution to that effect is to ensure compliance with financial and regulatory reporting included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee discusses and agrees the Audit Committee thanks EY for their audit work, and asscope of the audit plan for the year ahead and the Auditors sistance to the Committee, over many years.
Report on their findings at the conclusion of the audit.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee clearly define the INTERNAL CONTROLS Committees responsibilities.
These terms are reviewed annually and are available for inspection on the Companys The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Board has therefore established an ongoing process fideThe Audit Committee also reviews the system of internal signed to meet the particular needs of the Company in controls, the terms of appointment of the Auditors includmanaging the risks to which it is exposed, consistent with ing their remuneration, the objectivity of the Auditors and the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Rethe terms under which they are appointed to perform nonporting Council.
The process relies principally on a riskaudit services.
The Audit Committee also received a report based system of internal control whereby a test matrix is from the Auditors identifying to its satisfaction how their increated that identifies the key functions carried out by the dependence and objectivity is maintained when providing Company and other service providers, the individual acthese non-audit services.
Fees for these services amounted to tivities undertaken within those functions, the risks assonil for the year ended 30 April 2018 2017: 8,500 included ciated with each activity and the controls employed to in Other expenses in Note 3 on page 16.
The Board considminimise those risks.
A formal annual review of these proers that the provision of such services at this level is cost efcedures is carried out by the Board and includes considerfective and does not impair the independence of Ernst & ation of internal control reports issued by the Investment Young LLP EY.
Adviser and other service providers.
The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Such review procedures have been in place throughout the audit, the quality of the team and advice received from financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual them through reviewing interaction with the Auditors, reReport and Accounts, and the Board is satisfied with their ports received from them and discussion with manageeffectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage, ment.
The Audit Committee continues to be satisfied with rather than eliminate, risk and, by their nature, can prothe effectiveness of the work provided by EY and that EY vide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against maremain objective and independent.
At each Board Meeting the Board reviews the Companys activities since the previous At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considBoard Meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser adered whether the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts were heres to the agreed investment policy and approved infair, balanced and understandable and whether they provestment guidelines and, if necessary, the Board approves vided the necessary information for shareholders to assess changes to the guidelines.
the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, PATAC Limited acts as the Companys AIFM for the purthe Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and poses of the AIFM Directive and provides secretarial and understandable.
The Audit Committee reached this conadministrative services to the Company.
clusion based on a detailed review of the financial statements and subsequent discussion on whether the accounts The Company does not have an internal audit function as are fair, balanced and understandable by all members of the Audit Committee believes that the Companys straightthe Committee.
forward structure and small number of employees do not warrant such a function.
This is reviewed by the CommitAUDIT AND AUDIT TENDER tee annually.
The Company confirms that it was in compliance with SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING MATTERS the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of The significant issue considered by the Audit Committee Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Reduring the year in relation to the financial statements of sponsibilities Order 2014 during the financial year ended the Group was the existence and valuation of investments.
The AIFM regularly reconciles the portfolio holdings to confirmations from the Companys Custodian and carries The Companys external Auditor, EY, has been the Comout testing of the prices obtained from the independent panys Auditor since 1983.
The Audit Engagement Partner pricing source.
Based on confirmation from the AIFM that rotates every five years in accordance with ethical guidethese procedures have operated correctly at 30 April 2018 lines and 2018 is the fifth year for the current partner.
As and based on conversations with and written reporting reported in each of the Companys Annual Reports since from the Depositary, the Committee is satisfied that there 2014, owing to changes in EU Regulation relating to audit is no material misstatement in the context of the Annual tenure it has been the Boards intention to put the audit Report and Accounts as a whole.
out for tender after the approval of the 30 April 2018 Annual Report.
The Audit Committee therefore decided durJean Sharp ing the year to conduct a tender for audit services.
The Director Audit Committee invited three audit firms to tender for the audit.
EY were not invited to tender owing to the 1 June 2018 Page 28
