Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 63 DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Groups Audit During the year, we conducted a Committee Report for the year ended thoroughreview of the Groups Strategic 31December 2018 which setsout the risk register, including all Principal Risks.
activities and focus of the Committee This included an assessment of the forthe period.
Groupsrisk appetite for each area of risk, and the risk mitigations in place to reduce One of the key activities of the Audit the risk impacts or likelihood.
After careful Committee during 2018 was the consideration, two new Principal Risks assessment ofsignificant financial were added in 2018.
The significant financial and the Board consider that climate change judgements havenot changed from and reputation should both be included theprevious year and were revenue asPrincipal Risks.
Further information recognition: the carrying value of the canbefound on pages 45 to 48.
Groups land and work in progress including the accuracy ofcost recoveries The Committee also monitors and reviews and the carrying value of the Groups the work of the Group Risk function.
The Committee agrees the Group Risk One of the key activities of annual project plan with the Group Risk A major role of the Audit Committee is the AuditCommittee during Manager, reviews of the findings of internal tomonitor the effective governance of 2018 was theassessment audit reports and monitors follow-up the Groups financial reporting.
There was an external assessment ofsignificant financial The Committee has reviewed both the of the Group Risk function during 2018, judgements.
The significant Half Year Report and the Annual Report which was carried out by assessors for the financial year ended 31 December financial judgements have oftheInstitute of Internal Auditors IIA.
2018 and the related regulatory disclosures.
not changed from the We were pleased to see that the results At the request of the Board, the Audit previous year and were ofthat assessment were generally positive Committee considered and is satisfied that with no areas of non-conformance to IIA revenue recognition: the the 2018 Annual Report taken as a whole standards but with some recommended carrying value of the Groups is fair, balanced and understandable and minor improvements around planning provides the necessary information to land and work in progress processes and procedural points which assess the Groups position, performance, including the accuracy have now been actioned.
ofcost recoveries and The Audit Committee met four times during We monitor the performance and the the carrying value of the 2018 and all members of the Committee objectivity of the external auditor.
Ernst Groups shared equity loan attended each of the meetings.
In addition, &Young prepare a detailed audit plan receivables.
we held a discussion with the Group Risk priortocommencing their audit, setting Manager, without management present.
 of the main audit Rachel Kentleton risksand the appropriate materiality level.
As part of external Board evaluation Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee reviewed the plan with further details of which are on page 59 theauditor and agreed the scope of their the Audit Committee was assessed and work.
The Committee also reviewed the found to be effective.
independence of the auditor and agreed Further information on the work of the the fee for the audit work and the fee Committee during the year is set out below.
forthe review of the Half Year Report.
The Committee continues to consider thatthe auditor and the audit engagement Rachel Kentleton Chairman of the Audit Committee partner remains independent.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 64 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Further information on these matters AUDIT COMMITTEE 2018 PRIORITIES AND MAIN issetout below.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES ACTIVITIES The key responsibilities of the Audit The Audit Committees priorities and its Revenue recognition Committee are: main activities for the 2018 financial year Revenue for 2018 was 3.74bn.
Committee monitors the effectiveness of Review of the Annual Report, Half Year the internal controls exercised over thekey Report and of the related financial and 1.
Financial Reporting processes employed by the Groupto ensure trading announcements: The Audit Committee reviews the Annual the accuracy of revenue recognition and Report and the Half Year Report and the Assessment of significant judgements: associated disclosures.
Misstatements that related regulatory announcements and Review of Groups Strategic Risk occur in relation to revenue recognition could monitors the integrity of financial reporting.
Register, Principal Risks and materially affect the revenue in the income Viability Statement: statement, particularly in relation to revenue The Board asked the Audit Committee to being recorded in the wrong period, due to consider whether the 2018 Annual Report Monitor the external audit and review cut offerrors or management bias.
IFRS 15, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and its effectiveness: Revenue from Contracts with Customers, understandable and whether it provides Review of the work of the Group became effective from 1 January 2018. thenecessary information for shareholders RiskFunction including the findings Management reviewed the application toassess the Companys position, ofinternal audit reports: and ofthenew standard to its current business performance, business model and strategy.
Monitor the effectiveness of internal practices.
Revenue included in the The Audit Committee is satisfied that, controls and the risk management Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, framework.
Income now includes the fair value balanced and understandable and provides Further details are set out below.
ofconsideration received or receivable the information necessary for shareholders onthesale of part exchange properties, to assess the Groups position, performance, AUDIT COMMITTEE inaddition to the previously reported fair business model and strategy.
In reaching COMPOSITION value of the consideration received or this decision, the Committee took into receivable on the legal completion of a newly consideration the information ithad received The Audit Committee comprises three built property sale.
Further details ofthe and discussions that had taken place independent Non-Executive Directors, Rachel application of the new standard is included during the year.
The report isprepared Kentleton, Chairman, Marion Searsand Simon inNote 1 to the Financial Statements on bysenior management with appropriate Litherland.
There were nochanges to the page 104, and the analysis oftotal Group verification to ensure accuracy of the composition of the Committee during 2018. revenues is found at Note 5 to the Financial information presented.
The Committee members have the Statements.
During the year, the Group 2.
Assessment of Significant requiredskills and experience to undertake Riskfunction reviewed the processes Judgements their roles.
The Committee Chairman is andinternal controls that determine the The Audit Committee reviews and aqualified accountant and as the Finance accuracy of revenue recognition by the assesses the significant financial issues Director of PayPoint plc has recent, Group.
Following this review the Committee facing the Group and determines the key relevant financial experience.
Prior to issatisfied that theGroups processes risks of misstatement of the Groups thisRachel was Group Director, Strategy are adequate.
Following its review, &Implementation at easyJet plc.
Rachel Carrying value of land and work ithas assessed that the material financial therefore has considerable experience of inprogress including the accuracy issues of the Group for 2018 were operational, consumer facing businesses ofcostrecoveries unchanged from the previous year with long term investment cycles.
The carrying value of the Groups land and were: Marion Sears has served on a number totalled 2.1bn at 31 December 2018, ofaudit committees both for operating revenue recognition: thecarrying value of work in progress on companies and investment trusts.
the carrying value of the Groups land site totalled 881.8m and the cost of sales Simon Litherland is a qualified accountant and work in progress including the was 2.6bn.
Misstatements that occur in and, as Chief Executive Officer of Britvic accuracy of cost recoveries: and relation to land and work in progress plc, has many years of leadership, business valuations and profit recognition would the carrying value of the Groups shared and finance experience in a consumer affect the inventory balance sheet account equity loan receivables.
Given the broad experience and the cost of sales income statement and expertise of the Committee members, In addition, the Committee reviewed the account.
There is a risk that the carrying the Committee as a whole has relevant accounting treatment that would arise value of land and work in progress could be skills and experience.
in2018 of the proposed net settlement subject to impairment write downs should ofawards that vested on 31 December 2017 In addition, the Group Finance Director market conditions deteriorate significantly.
and 2 July 2018 under the Groups 2012 andGroup Risk Manager attend each The carrying value of inventory is Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 LTIP.
determined by reference to a number Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 65 ofassumptions which are subject to which appropriately reflects the inherent the potential impact of economic management estimation and is assessed risks of recoverability of these shared uncertainty with the UKs ongoing by management for impairment by equity loan receivables.
negotiations on leaving the EU: and reference to current market inputs and the potential impact of changes to Accounting treatment of the net assumptions.
The Committee continues Government policy on the economy settlement of awards that vested under tomonitor the Groups key processes andon the housebuilding industry.
the Groups 2012 LTIP pertaining to its investment in site In considering the Companys prospects After the careful assessment of the Groups development activities and the valuation of andviability the Audit Committee prospects and viability see the Groups work in progress and the effectiveness of considered a number of potential scenarios Viability Statement on pages 49 and 50 and the internal controls exercised over those as described in the Companys Viability the identification of available surplus capital processes.
Members of the Group risk Statement on pages 49 and 50. in line with the Groups strategic objectives team attend the bi-monthly operating see strategic objective No.
6, Optimising company valuation meetings and report on 4.
Monitor the External Audit Working Capital and Returns, on pages management's adherence to the Groups andreview itseffectiveness 13and 43 the Board decided to net settle policies and procedures to the Risk and The Audit Committee monitors the performance theawards that vested under the 2012 LTIP, Audit Committees.
and the objectivity of the External Auditor and on 31 December 2017 and on 2 July 2018, considers whether theaudit is effective.
The The Committee has again reviewed on exercise.
As a result, during the 2018 Committee reviews and agrees the proposed managements assessment of the net financial year, the Company reduced the detailedaudit planprior to Ernst & Young realisable value of the Groups land and number of shares it would otherwise have commencing theiraudit, including how the work in progress held at 31 December issued by 7.3 million shares to 8.2 million audit is to be conducted and the scope of that 2018.
The Committee concluded that shares and recognised a liability of 180.2m work.
The Committee subsequently reviews theapproach adopted by management to HMRC in respect of tax liabilities, 159.9m the auditors audit report and considers any supported the asset carrying values.
of which was paid bythe year end.
matters raised by Ernst & Young and, where Carrying value of shared equity 3. Review of the Groups Viability necessary, changes toprocesses are agreed.
loanreceivables Statement, Principal Risks and The Committee also agreed the work for the There are second charge loans remaining RiskRegister review of the Half Year Report.
due to the Group under shared equity The Audit Committee conducts In assessing the performance of the external contracts previously entered into with some regularreviews of the Groups detailed auditor, the Committee takes into consideration of its customers of 86.9m at 31 December riskregisters, the Principal Risks to senior managements view of the performance 2018.
These are reported as shared equity theCompanys business model see pages of Ernst & Young.
Following the work completed loan receivables on the Groups balance sheet.
45to 48, and the viability and prospects for the 2018 audit, the Audit Committee ofthe Company and its Viability Statement There is a risk that this balance could be continues to consider that the performance see pages 49 and 50.
During the year, misstated, given that the fair value ofthese of Ernst &Young remains satisfactory.
therewas a thorough review of the Groups assets is based on a number of assumptions Ernst & Young have been the Groups auditor Strategic risk register, including all Principal which contain inherent uncertainties and since April 2016 and this is their third audit.
This included an assessment of the which require management judgement.
The They were appointed as auditor following Groups risk appetite for each area of risk, Committee monitors the effectiveness of acompetitive tender exercise involving three and the risk mitigations in place to reduce internal controls exercised over the key leading audit firms.
The Audit Committee the risk impacts or likelihood.
processes that are employed bythe Group doesnot plan to put the statutory audit in managing these second charge loans.
Following this review, the Groups Principal services engagement out to tender in 2019 Risks were updated to reflect developments Following a review of the assumptions and we have recommended to the Board in the environment in which the Group adopted by management in support of thatErnst & Young be re-appointed auditor.
Two new risks have been added thecarrying value of these receivables, Before commencing the audit for 2018, to the Groups Principal Risks, being theCommittee has concluded they remain Ernst& Young prepared a detailed draft audit Climate Change and Reputational risk.
The Committee monitors the plan for review by the Committee, identifying Details of all of the Groups Principal Risks ongoing performance of these receivables their assessment of the key risks for audit and the Groups mitigation of those risks with respect to redemptions and consideration in 2018 and overall Group are set out on pages 44 to 48.
The major delinquency and are satisfied that materiality.
There was no change in the year risks facing the Group are scrutinised by management have adopted appropriate tothe significant financial risks previously the Committee and are reviewed against assumptions in this regard in support identified, which are revenue recognition, the controls in place tomanage those risks, ofthecarrying value of these assets.
thecarrying value of the Groups land and in order that the controls remain appropriate.
The Committee considers that the Group work in progress including the accuracy In particular, during the year the Audit managements application of its accounting ofcost recoveries and the carrying value Committee reviewed: policies has resulted in a carrying value ofthe Groups shared equity receivables.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 66 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued The other areas of audit focus included objectivity and integrity, the auditor is The Group Risk function also reviews impairment of goodwill and intangible excluded from undertaking a range of allwhistleblowing reports, conducting assets: accuracy of current tax accrual workon behalf of the Group.
This includes investigations where necessary, and provides anddeferred tax balances: valuation appraisal or valuation services, management details to the Committee.
oftheGroups defined benefit pension functions and litigation support, actuarial An external assessment of the Group Risk scheme obligations and share-based services and legal or remuneration services function was carried out by assessors from the payments.
In addition, there was a review on behalf of the Group.
The Auditor may Institute of Internal Auditors IIA, in line with a toconfirm that the Group should properly becommissioned to provide audit related requirement of the IIAs professional standards beconsidered as a going concern: services and permitted non-audit related to perform such a review every five years.
areviewof the Viability Statement and services withthe specific approval of the The results of the assessment were generally theirrequirements as auditor to address Audit Committee.
There was compliance with positive, with no areas of non-conformance.
theBoards application of the UK Corporate thenon-audit related policy during the year.
Improvement actions were identified in some Governance Code.
The fee paid to Ernst & Young LLP for their areas, such as theinternal audit planning The Committee consider the independence 2018 audit work was 196,200, details are set process and resource allocation and reporting.
of the auditor and of the senior engagement out on page 111.
Additionally, audit related fees The majority of other recommendations made partner at least annually.
As part of that of 48,450 were paid to the firm for their work by the assessors were minor or procedural process, the Committee holds private on their review of the 2018 Half Year Report points, most of which were addressed meetings with members oftheErnst & and the Company paid 4,200 for the audit immediately by the Group Risk function.
Young audit team without management ofthe Persimmon Charitable Foundation 2017 In line with the Committees terms of reference, present todiscuss the auditors assessment annual report.
The ratio of audit fees tononthe Committee meets with theGroup Risk of the business risks and managements audit fees for the year was therefore3.7:1.
Manager annually, without management present.
activities with regard to those risks, the 5. Review of the work of the Group transparency and openness of interactions 6.
Other key actions Risk function with management and confirmation that The other key actions of the Committee The Audit Committee reviews the work of there has been no restriction in scope during the year were: the Group Risk function at each of its regular placed on them.
Following the review of meetings.
This includes review and approval full review of liquidity risk and whether auditor independence, which took into of the Group Risk annual project plan, review theGroup can continue to adopt the going consideration the fees paid toErnst & of all reports of Group Risk findings, and concern basis in preparing the accounts: Young, the Committee continues to consider monitoring of follow-up actions.
Within 2018, review of the Groups tax status and that Ernst & Young and Peter McIver, audit the Committee reviewed reports from the taxstrategy: engagement partner, remain independent.
Group Risk function on the following matters: the processes around the Groups In order to consider whether the auditor Brickworks controls: succession planning, given the vesting hasdemonstrated an appropriate mind ofawards on 31 December 2017 and Group Training: coverage and effectiveness: set, including professional scepticism, 2 July2018 under the 2012 LTIP, including theAuditCommittee reviews the auditors Non-Financial reporting planning for areview of the procedure forpre-employment draftAudit Plan and discusses it with them.
UKCorporate Governance Code 2018 : checks on seniormanagement: Modern Slavery: supply chain The plan was reviewed and approved by the Groups approach to the equalisation of risk assessment: theCommittee at their April 2018 meeting.
Guaranteed Minimum Pension benefits under The final plan, including the proposed audit Compliance with sales processes: its defined benefits pension schemes: and approach and scope for the 2018 audit was Labour only subcontractor processes: IT control risks.
reviewed by the Committee and discussed FibreNest planning: with the auditor at their December 2018 INTERNAL CONTROL AND Revenue recognition processes meeting.
The Company has complied RISK MANAGEMENT and controls: withthe provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014.
The effective management of risk is Review of costs and recoveries centralto the achievement of our objectives oninfrastructure sites: The Committee formulates and oversees and delivery of the long term sustainable Payment authorisation andprocessing theCompanys policy on monitoring the growth of our business.
The Board has controls: objectivity and independence in relation overall responsibility for the Companys tonon-audit services.
This policy was last Business continuity and disaster system of internal control and for the review reviewed in detail in 2017.
In order that the recovery:and of its effectiveness.
nature of any non-audit services performed Duplicate payments analysis by the auditor and the fee earned for that and recovery.
work relative to the fees earned for the auditdo not compromise, and are not seen tocompromise the auditors independence, Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 67 System of Internal Controls Risk and Audit Committee oversight Following the review of reports and information presented to the Risk Committee, The internal control environment of the The members of the Risk committee during where minor weaknesses orimprovement Company is based upon a three lines 2018 were Jeff Fairburn Chairman, opportunities in internal controls were ofdefence model.
The first line of defence Rachel Kentleton, Mike Killoran, and Dave identified, action has beentaken to improve ismanagements day-to-day oversight Jenkinson.
Jeff Fairburn resigned from the and strengthen procedures.
This is typically ofbusiness activities.
Functions with Risk Committee when he left the Group on carried out bythe Group Risk Department Group wide remits constitute the second 31 December 2018.
The Risk Committee is liaising withregional and departmental line of defence, providing guidance, supported by the Group Risk Manager and managers on conclusion of their work.
direction and instruction to operating Group Risk function.
The Risk Committee companies, supporting Group wide reports to the Audit Committee, which In addition to the meetings of the Risk operations with standardised systems and oversees the Risk Committees activities.
Committee, the Committee members processes.
These functions also conduct alsocompleted the following tasks, which The Audit Committee reviews the internal assurance activities to ensure these are essential parts of the Groups risk control and risk management systems areembedded effectively.
The Group control framework: inrelation to the processes of financial Riskfunction operates as the third line reporting and the preparation of the maintaining continuous detailed ofdefence, providing assurance on consolidated accounts, as well as the involvement in monitoring and controlling theeffectiveness ofall aspects of risk reports that are sent to the Risk Committee.
work in progress and controls over land andinternal control through their annual The Company has complied with the acquisition assessment: projectplan, which isapproved by the UKCorporate Governance Code provisions Riskand Audit Committees.
The Risk regular site visits and discussions with oninternal control, having continued to Committee ensures the Boards policies site based personnel: operate procedures consistent with the are implemented through the regular Guidance on Risk Management Reporting, ongoing review of Group performance reviewofcontrol systems and procedures.
Internal Control and Related Financial and incomparison to operational forecasts This includes determining appropriate Business Reporting issued bythe FRC and financial budgets: and control procedures and the review of the inSeptember 2014 throughout the year.
effectiveness of internal controls, including involvement in board discussions the review of internal audit reporting There were five meetings of the Risk foreach operating business, particularly provided by the Group Risk function.
Committee in 2018, ensuring there operational board meetings where all hasbeen an ongoing and robust process aspects of operations and performance Senior management from the Finance forthe identification, evaluation and are routinely analysed.
Department monitor the Groups financial management of the main risks faced by the management and reporting systems and On completion of these processes the Group and the effectiveness of the controls continually assess the integrity and RiskCommittee formally considered in place to mitigate them.
The key features effectiveness of the Groups accounting theannual review of the effectiveness of the Risk Committees review process procedures.
Senior management from oftheGroups system of internal control.
were as follows: theFinance and Company Secretarial This review covered all material controls Departments review all financial reports review of reports produced by the Group including financial, operational and and trading updates with appropriate Risk Department on internal control and compliance controls, as well as the Groups consultation with the Groups external management of risk: risk management system.
There were no advisors, ensuring that such reports material issues identified from the review.
review of representations on risk and andstatements are accurate, complete The review for 2018 has been completed control from all Managing Directors of andconsistent with the requirements and approved by the Risk and Audit operating businesses following individual ofallrelevant legislation and regulations.
Committees and by the Board.
A detailed reviews of internal control within their Each operating business and Group 2019 programme of work for the Group operating businesses: function is required to report to the Group Risk Department, designed to provide in standardised formats to ensure that review of representations on risk and effective coverage of key areas of risk, allfinancial reporting is accurate and that control from both Group and divisional hasalso been approved by the Risk and all matters which may be material to the management: Audit Committees.
Group as a whole have been reported review of reports provided by heads The Companys system of internal control tothe Board.
Senior management reports ofvarious business functions, covering isdesigned to manage risk effectively, its findings to the Audit Committee and areas such as tax, information technology inorder to achieve its strategic objectives: through that Committee to the Board.
and the shared equity portfolio: and itisnot intended to completely eliminate The Principal Risks faced by the Group are risk.
The system can only provide monitoring of whistleblowing reports set out on pages 45 to 48 and changes reasonable assurance on the effectiveness orother significant control issues during the year are explained above.
of risk management and does not provide orincidents reported.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
