58 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT mostsuitable.
All nominations by the All Directors are required to allocate sufficient BOARD LEADERSHIP Committee are made on the basis of time to the Company to discharge their The Board consists of our Chairman, meritand overall suitability, taking into duties.
During the appointment process Roger Devlin, two Executive Directors and consideration the diversity of the Board.
theNomination Committee provided Roger four Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Devlin with an assessment of the time The role of the Board commitment required of the role of Chairman.
COMPOSITION, SUCCESSION The Board leads and directs the Group.
Roger Devlin retired from hisroles at ANDEVALUATION It sets the strategy, sets the Groups values Marstons PLC and the Football Association and monitors and assesses culture, with the Composition prior to his appointment at theCompany.
aim of achieving the long term sustainability In addition to his role at Persimmon Roger The biographies of the current Directors of the business, for the benefit of shareholders, isChairman of William Hill PLC.
can be found on pages 56 and 57. customers, employees, suppliers and the Board appointments and changes Nicholas Wrigley and Jeff Fairburn were communities in which we build.
also Directors of the Company during the In recognition that the 2012 LTIP could The Board has a formal schedule of matters year and resigned on 26 February 2018 have included a cap on the value of awards reserved for its consideration and decision, and 31 December 2018 respectively.
vesting to participants, Nicholas Wrigley which is reviewed annually.
The schedule resigned as Chairman on 26 February The Board is satisfied that it has the includes the approval of the Groups 2018.
Nigel Mills became Acting Chairman appropriate balance of skills, experience, strategy, major investments, annual and and interim Chairman of the Nomination independence and knowledge of the halfyear results and trading updates, review Committee from 26 February 2018 and Company and considers that its size is of performance, dividend and cash return resumed his role as Senior Independent appropriate for the size and complexity policy, monitoring risk and ensuring Director on Roger Devlins appointment ofthe Group.
The Nomination Committee adequate financial controls are in place.
asChairman on 1 June 2018. continues to review the composition During 2018 the Board held seven meetings.
oftheBoard and the skills and diversity Following his appointment Roger Devlin Board meetings are often preceded by ofthe Directors and will make further received a thorough and formal induction.
informal dinners, to which senior managers appointments where it considers This consisted of one-to-one meetings with are invited to give presentations to the them necessary.
the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, Board.
All Directors attended the Board the Company Secretary and senior The Board understands and has regard and Committee meetings during the year, management, covering areas such as IT, to the benefits of diversity, including with the exception of Nicholas Wrigley, HR, Health & Safety and Tax & Treasury gender diversity.
As at 31 December 2018 who did not attend the Board meeting held and within our housebuilding operations.
the Board was 25% female, following on 21 February 2018 nor any Committee The induction also included visits to Group Jeff Fairburns departure, the Board is meetings held that day and Jeff Fairburn, sites and a regional office.
At 31 December 2018 who did not attend the Board meeting held to Roger met with a number of the Companys we had 35female colleagues in our consider the Group Chief Executives position.
The Board considers all the Non-Executive We announced in November 2018 that The Group has a Diversity Policy, Directors to be independent.
Nigel Mills JeffFairburn, Group ChiefExecutive, theobjective of which is to ensure that is a Senior Advisor at Citigroup Global would leave the Group on 31 December appointments are made on the basis of Markets.
Citigroup, whilst one of Persimmons 2018.
Jeff was a successful leader of the merit and sustainability taking into account two brokers, is not a financial advisor to the business since his appointment in 2013, diversity, including gender.
There are no Company and has received no remuneration but the Board believed that the distraction specific targets for levels of diversity for the from the Company for more than ten years, around his remuneration continued to Board or for the Group as a whole, however and received share dealing commission have a negative impact on thereputation the remit of the new Gender Diversity only in the two years before that.
Nigel of the business and consequently on Jeffs Panel is to consider how the Group can had not worked on the Companys ability to continue in his role.
Jeff made attract more women into the business business over the three years prior to a significant contribution to the business andincrease female progression into his appointment in 2016, itself preceded during his 29 years of service and the senior roles.
by Citigroups decision to putinplace Board expresses its thanksto Jeff for strict procedures which further ensure When considering the appointment of his dedicated service during those years.
Accordingly, theBoard newDirectors, the Nomination Committee Full details of Jeffs settlement terms reiterates its belief in Nigels independence, determines the skills and experience which are set out in the Remuneration Report.
which has been clearly demonstrated would be of benefit to the composition of indebate in both Board, Nomination and the Board and then evaluates candidates Remuneration Committee meetings since skills, knowledge and experience to his appointment.
determine which candidate would be Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 59 Dave Jenkinson is appointed Group Re-election Only Non-Executive Directors are members Chief Executive from 26 February 2019. of the Boards Audit, Remuneration and Each of the Directors, with the exception He was Interim Chief Executive following Nomination Committees.
The Chairman ofRoger Devlin, will stand for re-election Jeff Fairburns departure, having previously holds meetings with the Non-Executive byshareholders at the forthcoming AGM, been Group Managing Director.
Dave Directors without the Executive Directors to be held on 1 May 2019.
Roger Devlin has extensive housebuilding experience being present.
willbe standing for election as this will be having been with the Group for 22 his first AGM since his appointment.
He has been instrumental in the CORPORATE CULTURE The Board supports the re-election or development and implementation of many The Groups culture is one of hard work with election of all of the Directors.
It considers of the successful operational initiatives a drive for excellence.
Management lead by that the Executive Directors have the skills which have underpinned the Groups robust example and all employees work to achieve and experience necessary to manage the performance in recent years.
high standards in all areas of the business.
business and deliver the Groups strategy The Group has an entrepreneurial spirit Board Evaluation and the Non-Executive Directors have within a structure of centralised control and During 2018 the Board conducted an theskills to support andchallenge the a meritocratic environment.
external evaluation of its own performance Executive Directors.
Each ofthe Nonand that of its Committees and individual Executives has individually shown a high ENGAGEMENT WITH Directors.
The evaluation was formal, level of independence and commitment to THE WORKFORCE rigorous and externally facilitated by Clare their roles and are considered by the Board Chalmers, who is a highly experienced and to be independent.
There are a number of ways in which independent provider of board evaluations the Board engages with its employees.
and has no other connections to the Group.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES Members of the Board regularly visit the The external evaluation process was Groups local businesses to see operations There is a clear, written division of agreed with the Chairman.
Informal dinners are held with responsibilities between the Chairman Board members and local senior staff, andthe Group Chief Executive, which is Ms Chalmers review involved meetings which are an opportunity for the Directors approved by the Board.
No one individual with the Chairman, individual structured to hear feedback and also to further has unfettered powers of decision.
interviews with all Board Directors and explain to the local management team theCompany Secretary, a review of The Chairman matters of particular focus and importance boardpacks and minutes of meetings, On appointment Roger Devlin, Chairman, for the Group.
observation of the Boards annual strategy satisfied the criteria for independence meeting and presentation oftheevaluation We publish an employee newsletter, specified in the UK Corporate Governance report to the Board.
HQ, regularly throughout the year.
The Chairman supported by newsletter invites employees to givetheir Ms Chalmers evaluation report was the Company Secretary, sets the agenda feedback.
informative and provided independent for board meetings.
The Chairman ensures appraisal of the Board and its Committees.
that board meetings are a forum for open During 2018 the Board decided to Following the evaluation, Ms Chalmers made and constructive debate and that the views establish an Employee Engagement Panel.
recommendations which the Board intends of all Directors are valued and considered.
The Employee Engagement Panel was to implement during 2019, including: formed in early 2019 and consists of Non-Executive Directors voluntary members who can give a broad 1.
Improvements to the presentation As set out in the Composition section representation of the Groups employees.
ofBoard and Committee papers: ofthis report and on pages 56 and 57, A member of the Board will attend Panel theNon-Executive Directors have expertise 2.
Conduct additional work on formalising meetings and feedback from the Panel will which complements that of the Executive the Companys succession planning be regularly reported both to the Groups Directors.
Between them, the Nonprocesses: and Corporate Responsibility Committee and to Executives have many years of experience the Board.
The Chair of the Remuneration 3.
Increasing the number of presentations in fields such as marketing, various Committee will attend meetings of the to the Board by external speakers.
consumer facing industries, banking and Panel to engage with members on how finance.
The collective experience of the executive remuneration aligns with wider Non-Executives allows them to make Group pay policy.
valuable contributions to Board discussions, providing insight and constructive challenge to the Executive Directors.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 60 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Following thesearch, the Nomination The median pay gap for the Persimmon NOMINATION COMMITTEE Committee recommended to the Board Group was 8.0% in 2018 2017: 7.9%, The members of the Nomination thatRoger Devlinbe appointed Chairman.
compared to the Office for National Committee are: Roger Devlin Committee Statistics figure for 2017 of 18.4%.
Chairman, Nigel Mills, Marion Sears, Following the announcement that We have 25% females and 75% males Rachel Kentleton and Simon Litherland.
JeffFairburn would be leaving the Group, working for the Group.
Female employees theNomination Committee commenced make up 18% of our senior management Nomination Committee attendance 2018 aformal process to select a permanent Percentage team 2017: 13% and we believe that successor.
The Committee appointed Meetings of meetings thereason for the pay gap is due to the Member attended attended EgonZehnder, an executive search firm, lower number of senior female managers.
Roger Devlin 2 2 100% toassist with the search for a new Group Chief Executive.
The search has now During 2018 the Group established Nigel Mills 3 3 100% concluded with the appointment of Dave aGender Diversity Panel consisting of Marion Sears 3 3 100% Jenkinson as Group Chief Executive themost senior female employees across Rachel Kentleton 3 3 100% from26 February 2019.
Their remit is to consider Simon Litherland 3 3 100% athorough search, both within the howthe Group can attract more women Nicholas Wrigley 0 1 0% housebuilding sector and more widely.
Itwas into thebusiness and what, in the Panels clear to the Board that Dave Jenkinson is the view, canbe done to increase female R oger Devlin was appointed to the Committee on 27 June 2018. best candidate for the role.
Egon Zehnder progression into senior roles.
We recognise N icholas Wrigley resigned from the Board on has no other connection with the Group.
that increasing diversity will take a long 26 February 2018. term commitment.
The Panel meets on a Under the UK Corporate Governance Code During 2018 the Nomination Committee regular basis and as a direct result oftheir 2016 the purpose of the Committee is to lead considered succession planning both in recommendations the Grouphas adopted a the process for Board appointments.
relation to 2012 LTIP participants whose more formal flexible working policy for awards vested on 31 December 2017 The Committee held three meetings during office-based employees and aprogramme and2 July 2018 and in relation to senior 2018.
All members attended the Committee of school engagement, led byfemale succession planning generally.
The work meetings, except for Nicholas Wrigley, managers fromour operating businesses, undertaken in respect of 2012 LTIP whodid not attend the meeting held on will be rolled-outto support thediversity of participants continued work started in this 21 February 2018. our apprenticeships and regard in 2017 and was undertaken to plan training programmes.
Roger Devlin and Rachel Kentleton were for any participants who chose to leave the appointed to the Nomination Committee Group following the vesting of their 2012 AUDIT, RISK AND INTERNAL on27 June 2018 and Roger was appointed LTIP awards.
The Committee noted the CONTROL Chairman of the Committee on the same Executive Directors opinion that a small Audit Committee date.
Nicholas Wrigley left the Committee number of the senior management team when he resigned from the Board on below Board level may decide to leave The members of the Audit Committee are: 26 February 2018.
Nigel Mills acted theGroup once their options had vested Rachel Kentleton Committee Chairman, asinterim Chairman of the Nomination infull in July 2018.
Since the vesting of the Marion Sears and Simon Litherland.
Committee between 26 February 2018 2012 LTIP there has been no discernible All members of the Committee are and27 June 2018. increase in senior management turnover.
considered by the Board to be independent.
Work of the Committee during 2018 During the year the Board and the Audit Committee meetings attendance Succession and Diversity Nomination Committee worked with 2018 Percentage management to formalise and improve Led by Nigel Mills, Senior Independent Meetings of meetings thesuccession planning process for Director and Acting Chairman for part of the Member attended attended seniormanagement below board and year, the Nomination Committee commenced Rachel Kentleton 4 4 100% theGroups operational businesses.
a search to identify suitable candidates Marion Sears 4 4 100% toreplace Nicholas Wrigley as Chairman.
The Nomination Committee understands Simon Litherland 4 4 100% The Committee considered the criteria the importance of diversity both on the necessary for the successful candidate.
Board and in the Groups workforce.
They appointed MWM Consulting, an During 2018 the Group published its first executive search firm to assist with the Gender Pay Gap report, which can be search.
MWM Consulting has no other found on our corporate website at connections with the Group.
ofcandidates were considered and We willshortly publish our 2018 report.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 61 Under the UK Corporate Governance Code Under the UK Corporate Governance Code Following the 2018 AGM the Chairman, 2016 the purpose of the Committee is 2016 the purpose of the Committee is to Roger Devlin, and Marion Sears, tosafeguard the interests of shareholders develop policy on executive remuneration Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, by carrying out duties such as: monitoring inconsultation with shareholders and to fix have continued to engage with major the integrity of the Companys financial the remuneration packages of the Chairman shareholders on future remuneration for statements, reviewing the Companys and Executive Directors.
Under the new the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration internal financial controls and the 2018Code the Committee will also have Committee has worked hard during 2018 Companys internal control and risk responsibility for senior management below to ensure that future remuneration at the management system, reviewing the board level and the Company Secretary.
Company demonstrates compliance with effectiveness of the Companys risk During the year the Committee agreed that best practice and incorporates appropriate function and monitoring the external this would be the Groups Regional Chairmen discretion for the Remuneration Committee.
auditors independence and objectivity and and the Company Secretary.
Executive Directors basic salaries and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Non-Executive Directors fees were not The Committee held four meetings during increased in 2018.
Executive Directors The Committee held four meetings 2018.
All members attended the Committee did not participate in annual bonus during2018.
All members attended the meetings, except for Nicholas Wrigley, who arrangements for 2018 and did not Committee meetings.
did not attend the Committee meeting on receive an award under the Groups 2017 21 February 2018.
Further information on the role and Performance Share Plan.
The Remuneration activities of the Audit Committee can be The work of the Committee during the Committee endorsed the Executive found in the Audit Committee report on yearis set out in the Remuneration Report Directors request that their 2018 bonus pages 63 to 67. on pages 71 to 85. still be measured and be distributed to staff excluding those participants in the 2012 Terms of reference REMUNERATION LTIP and 2017 Performance Share Plan.
Terms of reference for the Board Committees Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website RELATIONS WITH The members of the Remuneration www.
com corporate SHAREHOLDERS Committee are: Marion Sears Committee or from the Company Secretary at the The Board is committed to establishing Chairman, Roger Devlin, Nigel Mills, Companys registered office.
andmaintaining good relations with the RachelKentleton and Simon Litherland.
The Board values Nicholas Wrigley left the Committee when At the 2018 AGM, the resolution to shareholder engagement and members he resigned from the Board on 26 February approve the 2017 Remuneration Report, ofthe Board meet regularly with major 2018.
Roger Devlin and Rachel Kentleton which included the vesting of 40% of shareholders.
All members of the Board were appointed to the Committee on the Executive Directors awards under attend the Companys Annual General 27 June 2018. the 2012 LTIP was passed but 48.5% Meeting and are available to answer Marion Sears, the Committee Chairman, of shareholders voted against the questions from all shareholders.
There was has served on the Committee since 2013 resolution and 30.9% of shareholders increased engagement with shareholders and therefore has requisite experience abstained.
Although the Executive Directors in 2018.
Firstly, in connection with the tochair a remuneration committee.
made significant reductions and adjustments vesting of awards under the Groups 2012 to their 2012 LTIP awards a scheme that LTIP and secondly by Roger Devlin on his Remuneration Committee meetings was approved by shareholders in 2012 appointment as Chairman, to enable him to attendance 2018 the Board recognised that a sizeable number Percentage gain a good understanding of shareholders Meetings of meetings of shareholders remained concerned over views of the Group.
Member attended attended the level of remuneration from the vesting Marion Sears 4 4 100% of these awards.
Due to the extensive Roger Devlin 2 2 100% engagement conducted prior to the 2018 Nigel Mills 4 4 100% AGM, the Board fully understood the reasons for the votes against the resolution Rachel Kentleton 2 2 100% and for the abstentions.
Simon Litherland 4 4 100% Nicholas Wrigley 0 1 0% R oger Devlin and Rachel Kentleton were appointed to the Committee on 27 June 2018.
N icholas Wrigley resigned from the Board on 26 February 2018.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 62 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The Group Chief Executive and Group New UK Corporate Engagement with Stakeholders Finance Director have responsibility for GovernanceCode The Board has set out the Groups major maintaining appropriate communications During the year the Financial Reporting stakeholders and how it engages with with institutional investors and analysts, Council published its new corporate those stakeholders on pages 54 and 55. advised by the Groups broker Bank of governance code, the UK Corporate Details of how it engages with shareholders America Merrill Lynch and the Groups Governance Code 2018 the 2018 Code, and employees is set out above.
financial PR consultants, Citigate Dewe which is applicable to accounting periods The UK Corporate Governance Rogerson.
The Group Chief Executive and beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Code 2016 Group Finance Director regularly hold calls The 2018 Code contains a number This Corporate Governance Statement, and meetings with major shareholders and ofnewprovisions which primarily focus together with the Audit Committee Report analysts after the announcement of our oncorporate culture, stakeholder on pages 63 to 67 and the Directors final and half yearly results and additionally engagement with specific provisions Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 85, as appropriate.
The calls held after the onworkforce engagement, remuneration provides a description of how the main announcement of our final and half year and succession.
principles of the UK Corporate Governance results are recorded and are available The Board conducted an exercise during Code 2016 have been applied within the onthe Companys corporate website at 2018 to prepare for the implementation Company during 2018. www.
ofthe 2018 Code including: The Company complied with the UK As Chairman of the Remuneration reviewing the Groups culture, including Corporate Governance Code 2016 Committee, Marion Sears has responsibility how it will be monitored and assessed: throughout 2018.
The Board continues for consulting with shareholders and toreview its governance procedures to institutions on matters relating to the establishment of an Employee maintain proper control and accountability.
Engagement Panel in 2019: and As described above, the Board has On an ongoing basis, the Board is the establishment of a Gender Diversity undertaken detailed work to prepare for the providedwith reports produced by equity Panel to consider how the Group can introduction of UK Corporate Governance analysts and the results of consultations attract more females into senior roles.
The Governance Code is are reported to the Board as a whole.
available from the Financial Reporting In addition, the Directors report to the Council, at www.
uk Board on feedback received following theirpresentations to or meetings withshareholders and analysts.
The Company issues regular trading updates to the London Stock Exchange, aswell as publishing annual and half yearly financial results.
The Company provides shareholders with access to detailed presentations ofresults at its analyst presentations.
The results presentation document is alsoavailable on the Companys corporate website.
On 8 November 2018 the Company Significant shareholdings heldaCapital Markets Day and dinner The disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8 can be found in the table below, foranalysts and major shareholders theStatement of Directors share interests on page 80, details of the surrender of LTIP whichincluded a visit to our Brickworks awards on page 73 and details of the authority for the Company to purchase its own factory, which became operational in 2018, shares on page 70. at Harworth near Doncaster.
This gave As at 31 December 2018 and as at 25 February 2019, the Company had been notified adetailed insight into the operation of under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5 theCompany and the presentation slides ofthe following interests in the voting rights of the Company: from the Capital Markets Day can be As at 31 December 2018 As at 25 February 2019 viewed on the Companys website at Number of % of total Number of % of total Nature of www.
1 1 Name voting rights voting rights voting rights voting rights holding BlackRock Inc 16,718,253 5.43 16,718,253 5.43 Indirect SEB Investment Management AB 9,508,263 3.01 Below 3% 1 R epresents the number of voting rights last notified to the Company by the respective shareholder in accordance withD.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
