20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an Personal Assets is a self-managed investment trust run by independent majority, and does not consider that a Direcits Board, which takes all major decisions collectively.
tors length of tenure reduces her or his ability to act indeWhile Robin Angus has executive duties, all of the Direcpendently.
tors regard themselves and one another as equal in the duties and responsibilities they owe to shareholders and Directors fees are determined within the limits set out in accordingly work together as a unitary Board within which the Companys Articles of Association.
The approval of the Chairman who is elected by the Directors from among shareholders in a General Meeting is required to change their own number acts as primus inter pares.
Due date for The Directors are elected by the shareholders and regard Date of Election or corporate governance and accountability to shareholders Director Appointment Re-election as fundamental.
They therefore place considerable emphasis on running the Company in the way they believe to Hamish Buchan be best suited to the successful management of an investChairman 5 July 2001 AGM 2018 ment trust on behalf of its shareholders.
Robin Angus Executive Director 18 May 1984 AGM 2018 Arrangements appropriate to an investment trust in reIain Ferguson 1 December 2017 AGM 2018 spect of corporate governance have been made by the Gordon Neilly 30 April 1997 AGM 2018 Board.
The Board has considered the principles and recPaul Read 1 December 2017 AGM 2018 ommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate GoverFrank Rushbrook 16 July 2009 AGM 2018 finance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Jean Sharp 21 July 2016 AGM 2018 Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the Any new Directors appointed during the year must stand AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK for election at the first Annual General Meeting following Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Retheir appointment.
All executive and non-executive Direcporting Council the UK Code, as well as setting out tors retire annually and, where appropriate, stand for readditional principles and recommendations which are of election.
Other than for Robin Angus there is no notice specific relevance to investment trusts.
The AIC Code can period and no provision for compensation on early termibe obtained from the AICs website at www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles Only Robin Angus has a contract of service with the Comand recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference pany.
Details of this service contract, his remuneration, to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will and fees paid to other Directors during the year are shown provide better information to shareholders than if it had in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Individual Directors may, after having obtained the conCOMPLIANCE sent of any other Director, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense on any matter that conThe Company has complied throughout the year, and concerns the furtherance of their duties.
Details of the Directinues to comply, with the recommendations of the AIC tors authority in relation to the issue and buying back by Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except the Company of its shares can be found in the Directors as disclosed below.
Similarly, details of those persons with significant The Board does not consider it appropriate for a Senior holdings in the Company are set out in the Directors ReIndependent Director to be appointed as recommended by port.
4.1 of the UK Code, as it operates as a uniCONFLICTS OF INTEREST tary Board.
The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director of the The Board does not consider it appropriate for Directors Company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or to be appointed for a specific term as recommended by might have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with principle 4 of the AIC Code and provision B.
2.3 of the UK the interests of the Company.
Each Director submits a list Code.
However, the Companys practice since 2007 has of potential conflicts prior to each meeting.
The other Dibeen that each Director will retire annually and, if approrectors consider these and recommend whether or not each priate, stand for re-election.
potential conflict should be authorised.
No situation arose The Board does not consider it appropriate for an external during the year whereby an interest of a Director conflicted evaluation of the Board to be carried out as recommended with the interests of the Company.
6.2 of the Code as it believes the current MEETINGS evaluation process to be objective and rigorous.
The During the year there were five formal Board meetings, Board, which is a unitary Board the members of which are each of which was attended by all of the Directors.
There in contact formally or informally at least once a month, is were three Audit Committee meetings, two Remuneration also of the view that its composition is suitably diverse and effective.
Committee meetings and a Nomination Committee meeting held during the year.
All of these meetings were attended by all of the respective committee members.
DIRECTORS All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be inUnder the terms of the contracts with the AIFM and the dependent in character and judgement and, in the opinion Investment Adviser, the following matters have been exof the Board, there are no relationships or conflicts of inpressly reserved to the Board: a the level and form of liqterest which are likely to affect the judgement of any Diuidity within the portfolio: b asset allocation within the rector.
Hamish Buchan and Gordon Neilly have served for portfolio: c the Companys gearing levels: d matters relating to the buying back and issuance of the Companys more than nine years.
However, the Board subscribes to Page 26 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED shares: e matters relating to shareholder communication: from time to time.
However, the Board is required to engage f hedging: g investment in any new asset class: h and in active dialogue with the Investment Adviser in relation to such other matters as the Board may reasonably intimate the matters referred to at items a, b, e, and f above.
The following diagram highlights various matters considered by the Board during the past year: May June Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Board and Consider Annual Semi-Annual Consider Semi-Annual Internal Committee 1st Interim General Investment 3rd Interim Investment Controls Evaluation Dividend Meeting Report Dividend Report Review Approval Approval of Consider Approval Annual Review Review Strategy of the Supplementary 2nd Interim of the Interim of Risk of Directors Session Annual Report Prospectus Dividend Report Registers Fees Review Approval of Consider Appointment Supplementary 4th Interim of Investment Prospectus Dividend Adviser Corporate Governance Review VOTING POLICY Iain Ferguson and Paul Read were appointed to the Board on 1 December 2017 following a thorough recruitment The Investment Adviser is to exercise all votes exercisable process.
Neither an external search consultant nor open by the Company in relation to the Companys investments advertising was used to assist in their appointments.
in favour of resolutions proposed by the Boards of investee companies, save where the Board instructs otherwise.
New Directors appointed to the Board are given an inBoard decisions regarding voting on corporate resolutions duction meeting with the Executive Office and are proof companies in which the Company invests are a matter vided with all relevant information regarding the Company for the whole Board.
All resolutions on which the Comand their duties as a Director.
Thereafter, regular briefings pany is entitled to vote are monitored and, although norare provided on changes in regulatory requirements that mally the Company would vote in favour of all Board could affect the Company and the Directors.
Professional resolutions, any contentious matters are referred to the Diadvisers report from time to time and Directors will, if necrectors by e-mail for comment.
Any Director disagreeing essary, attend seminars covering relevant issues and develthat the Company should cast an affirmative vote informs opments.
the Company Secretary and requests that her or his view be PERFORMANCE EVALUATION considered by a sub-committee of the Board consisting of During the year the performance of the Board, the Audit any two Directors.
The sub-committee then considers the Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneramatter and informs the Director of its conclusion.
Should tion Committee and individual Directors was evaluated the Director disagree with the sub-committees conclusion, through a discussion based assessment process led by the a full Board meeting is called to consider the matter.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluCOMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS ated by the other Directors.
The Board concluded that the The Board welcomes the views of shareholders and places Chairman and each Director contributed effectively and considerable importance on communications with them.
demonstrated commitment to her or his rle.
The Board The Investment Adviser reports back to the Board on also concluded that the performance of the Board as a meetings with shareholders and the Chairman and other whole and its committees was effective.
The UK Code reDirectors are available to meet shareholders if required.
quires the Company to engage an external facilitator for The Annual General Meeting of the Company and prethe Board evaluation every three years.
However, the sentations held in London provide a forum, both formal Board has elected not to comply with this requirement, as and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues disclosed on page 26. with the Board.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Companys Articles of Association may only be The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan amended by a special resolution passed at a General and comprising Mr Buchan, Iain Ferguson and Meeting of shareholders.
Frank Rushbrook, considers the appointment of new DiBy Order of the Board rectors.
Although the Company does not have a formal policy on diversity, consideration of Board diversity forms Steven K Davidson part of the responsibilities of the Nomination Committee.
Secretary The Board believes in the benefits of having a diverse range 10 St Colme Street of skills and backgrounds, including gender and length of Edinburgh EH3 6AA service, on its board of Directors.
All appointments will continue to be based on merit and therefore the Board is 1 June 2018 unwilling to commit to numerical diversity targets.
The Nomination Committee meets at least annually.
