Governance report Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Report Tony DeNunzio Chairman of the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Introduction Who is on the Nomination and Corporate The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Governance Committee?
is a key committee of the Board whose role is to keep the composition and structure of the Board and its Committees There were two formal Committee meetings held in the under review and has responsibility for nominating candidates financial year and members attendance was as shown in for appointment as Directors to the Board having regards to the table below.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary its structure, size and composition including the skills, to the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee.
knowledge, experience and diversity of its members.
of meetings We are also tasked with ensuring that succession plans are Tony DeNunzio Chair 2 2 in place for the Directors, the Executive Management Team Dennis Millard 2 2 and the Retail and Vet Group Executive Management Teams, taking into consideration the current Board structure, the Paul Moody 2 2 leadership requirements of the Group and the wider Tessa Green 2 2 commercial and market environment within which the Group Sharon Flood 2 2 operates.
The full terms of reference for the Nomination and Stanislas Laurent 2 2 Corporate Governance Committee can be found on the Companys website.
Amy Stirling resigned 11 July 2017 0 2 Paul Coby resigned 11 July 2017 0 2 Committee membership The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that a majority of the members of a nomination committee should What we did in 2018 be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Recommended that Peter Pritchard be appointed as Group Chief and Corporate Governance Committee is chaired by myself, Executive Officer following Ian Kelletts resignation from the Board.
Tony DeNunzio, and its other members are Dennis Millard, Paul Moody, Tessa Green, Sharon Flood and Stanislas Laurent Recommended that Andrei Balta be appointed as CEO each of whom is an Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Reviewed the talent and succession plans for the Executive meets not less than once a year.
Management Team and the Retail and Vet Group Executive Management Teams.
The following Directors served on the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee during the financial year: Assessed Board composition and how it may be enhanced.
Member Period from: To: Tony DeNunzio Chair 18 February 2014 To date Conducted and reviewed the Board evaluation and Dennis Millard 18 February 2014 To date effectiveness survey.
Paul Moody 25 March 2014 To date Tessa Green 18 February 2014 To date Reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
Sharon Flood 25 May 2017 To date Stanislas Laurent 25 May 2017 To date Reviewed and considered Directors conflicts of interest.
Amy Stirling 18 February 2014 11 July 2017 Paul Coby 18 February 2014 11 July 2017 Reviewed the time commitment and length of service of the There were two formal Committee meetings held in the Non-Executive Directors.
financial year and members attendance was as shown in the table above.
What we will do in 2019 Support Peter Pritchard in his transition to the role as Group Chief Executive Officer and in establishing a strong Executive Management Team around him.
Continue to assess Board composition and how it may be enhanced.
Implement further reviews and assessment of succession planning and development plans particularly in relation to the Executive Management Team and the Retail and Vet Group Executive Management Teams.
Review the Boards diversity policy and recommend any changes in that policy to the Board.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Report continued How the Nomination and Corporate Governance of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
Professor Dawson will Chair the Pets Before Profit and Corporate Committee discharged its responsibilities in FY18 Social Responsibility Committees and brings valuable Board appointments and resignations veterinary services sector expertise to the Board.
In November 2017, Ian Kellett notified me of his intention to step down as Chief Executive Officer.
Ians resignation took Succession planning effect on 27 April 2018.
Ian joined Pets at Home in April 2006 A principal risk to the business is the inability to attract, retain as Chief Financial Officer and moved to the role of Group and incentivise talented individuals to deliver our strategy.
Chief Executive Officer in April 2016.
Ians resignation required The Committee is responsible for reviewing talent, capability the Group to implement its succession plan and Peter and succession at the most senior levels of the business, Pritchard, CEO of the Retail Group, succeeded Ian as Group however, in the last two financial years, the Committee has Chief Executive Officer with effect from 27 April 2018.
Peter increased its focus on talent development, retention and joined Pets at Home in 2011 as Commercial Director and succession below Board and Executive Management Team moved to the role of CEO of Retail in 2015.
This work has involved considering skills and capability with the Group, Peter has overseen the establishment gaps along with succession planning immediately below the of our sourcing office in China, the launch of the VIP club, Executive Management Team.
Considerable progress has the development of our omnichannel strategy, and more been made in identifying gaps in the talent pool in addition recently, the repositioning of our Merchandise business.
The to mitigating the risks associated with unforeseen events such Committee will do all it can to support Peter in his new role.
as key individuals leaving the business.
In November 2017, I also accepted Nicolas Gheysens As a result of this work, I was delighted to see that the resignation from the Board.
Nicolas had been appointed to the Committee was able to recommend to the Board that Andrei Board as the nominated representative of the Companys then Balta be promoted into the role of CEO of the Vet Group principal shareholder, KKR My Best Friend Limited, an affiliate following Sally Hopsons resignation on 23 March 2018.
Andrei of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L. P.. KKR My Best Friend joined Pets at Home in 2011 as Director of Group Strategy and Limited determined at that time not to replace Nicolas on the moved to the Vet Group in 2013, firstly as Commercial Director Board as it was otherwise entitled to do under the terms of and subsequently as Chief Operating Officer.
Prior to Pets at the Relationship Agreement entered into with the Company.
Home, Andrei was a management consultant at Bain & Company for seven years.
As indicated in my report last year, during the financial period Amy Stirling and Paul Coby stepped down from the Board Despite the progress that has been made on succession with effect from the close of the Annual General Meeting on planning, the Board recognises that more work is required 11 July 2017 in order to fulfil commitments in their full time in order to ensure that a clear development framework is in roles.
Amy was succeeded by Sharon Flood, Chair of ST Du place for identified successors and this will continue to be Pont S. A, the Paris based luxury goods company and Audit a focus of the Committee for the next financial year.
Chair at Crest Nicholson plc and Network Rail.
Paul was Job levelling and banding replaced by Stanislas Laurent who was appointed on 25 May To support the work which the Committee is undertaking on 2017.
Stanislas was formerly President and CEO of Photobox talent development, retention and succession below Board and COO of AOL Europe.
and Executive Management Team level, the Board engaged Sharon has been appointed as Chair of the Audit and Risk Willis Towers Watson to undertake a review of the Groups Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee banding structure.
The work has involved reviewing the and the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Stanislas is Groups colleague banding structure across the organisation a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, Nomination and in order to determine changes which will create clearer career Governance Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility and development paths for all colleagues.
The Board under Committee and Pets Before Profit Committee.
the guidance of the Remuneration Committee will oversee the implementation of these changes over the current More recently Tessa Green confirmed that she will step down financial year.
from the Board with effect from close of the Annual General Meeting on 12 July 2018.
Tessa has been a Director of Pets at Home since 2014 and during that time has been Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and the Pets Before Profit Committee.
I would like to thank Tessa for her valuable contribution to the business and convey the Groups best wishes to her going forward.
Tessa will be succeeded by Professor Susan Dawson, Dean of the Institute of Veterinary Science at the University of Liverpool and council member Pets at Home Group Plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Board evaluation and effectiveness Conflicts of interest and independence of the As with the Board evaluation for FY17, this year, we carried out Non-Executive Directors an internal Board evaluation that included the completion of The Board has delegated authority to the Committee a focused online questionnaire that re-considered the priority to consider, and where necessary authorise, any actual areas highlighted in the FY17 external evaluation in order to or potential conflicts of interest arising in respect of the determine progress made.
In light of changes to the Board Directors.
We considered potential conflicts of interest since the Companys previous evaluation process, Board as they arose during the course of the year.
composition and expertise and Board dynamics were also an We also support the Board in its annual consideration area of focus.
As part of the evaluation, I also held discussions of the Conflicts of Interest Register, which is carried out prior with each Board member.
The Board considered the output to the publication of the Annual Report, and consider the from the review in April 2018 and concluded that the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, in the context performance of the Board, its Committees and individual of the criteria set out in the Corporate Governance Code.
Any areas for improvement have been The Boards view on independence is contained on page 50 agreed by the Board and are detailed on pages 58 to 59 of the of the Governance Report.
For further information on Board composition, diversity and Diversity independence, see the Governance Report on pages 50 to 51.
We take into account a variety of factors before recommending any new appointment to the Board, including I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge, any questions on the work of the Nomination and Corporate ethnicity and gender.
The most important priority of the Governance Committee.
Committee, however, is ensuring that the best candidate is selected to join the Board.
However, we will monitor the Groups approach to people development to ensure that it continues to enable talented individuals, both male and female, to enjoy career progression with the Group.
Further details on Board diversity can be found on pages 52 and 53 Tony DeNunzio of the Governance Report.
Chairman Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee 21 May 2018 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79
