Audit and Risk Committee Report Sharon Flood Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Introduction Who is on the Audit and Risk Committee?
This is my first report as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee, having joined the Board in July 2017.
I am pleased to report Member No.
of meetings that the Committee has had a very busy year assisting the Sharon Flood Chair appointed 11 July 2017 3 4 Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to protect the interests of Amy Stirling former Chair resigned 11 July 2017 1 4 shareholders with regard to the integrity of the financial Dennis Millard 4 4 reporting, the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management systems and internal controls, the effectiveness Paul Coby resigned 11 July 2017 1 4 of the Internal Audit function and the relationship with the Paul Moody 4 4 external auditors.
Stanislas Laurent appointed 11 July 2017 3 4 During the year the Committee met four times, with our agenda covering financial reporting, progress against the What we did in 2018 Internal Audit Plan and the external audit process.
We have considered risk regularly throughout the year, reviewing Reviewed key financial reporting matters and considered how updates to the Group risk register, tailoring our internal audit these are presented in the Financial Statements.
and risk review efforts towards the Groups strategic priorities.
Reviewed and challenged the Longer Term Viability Statement LTVS and going concern basis of preparation in advance of its In addition to our regular agenda, this year we have considered approval by the Board.
As part of this work, the carrying value accounting for forthcoming changes in accounting standards of the goodwill balance has been reviewed.
notably Leasing and Revenue Recognition, proposed Continued to broaden our focus on the Groups control amendments to the Groups Treasury policy in relation to environment including the consideration of the adequacy foreign exchange and have also monitored the Groups of controls to support our high growth Vet Group.
compliance levels with forthcoming General Data Protection Reviewed and challenged the Groups preparation for Regulation GDPR legislation.
compliance with forthcoming General Data Protection Committee membership Regulation GDPR legislation.
The Audit and Risk Committee the Committee members Reviewed and challenged the effectiveness of the Groups have been selected to provide a wide range of financial and Internal Audit function including appointing an in-house commercial experience necessary to fulfil the duties and internal auditor to work alongside our co-source model to meet the requirements of the Internal Audit Plan.
Each member of the Committee is an independent Non-Executive Director and has, Reviewed the processes in relation to providing extended through their other business activities, significant experience financial support to First Opinion practices and the recoverability of those loans.
We have also considered whether the level of in financial matters.
Further details of the Committee members practice indebtedness infers additional control to the Group and their experience can be found on pages 60 and 61. of a First Opinion vet practice and whether this challenges the existing accounting for a practice.
The Chairman of the Companys Board, Executive Management and senior managers within the business are invited to attend What we will do in 2019 meetings as appropriate to ensure that the Committee maintains a current and well-informed view of events within the business, Continue to carry out our responsibilities as set out in the terms of and to reinforce a strong risk management culture.
The Group reference, including monitoring the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements, challenging the judgemental areas contained within the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Financial Statements and advising the Board on whether external The Committee meets according to the requirements of the reporting is fair, balanced and reasonable.
The meetings of the Committee Continue to focus on the control environment of the Group, including also provide the opportunity for the Independent Nonpet welfare across our operations Retail, Grooming, Vet including Executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors Specialist Division and our breeding partners and the controls and processes relating to the management and release of key IT projects.
present and to raise any issues of concern with the internal and external auditors.
We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function and whistleblowing procedures.
We will agree an Internal Committee activities Audit strategy for 2019 and beyond, defining ways of working as well as The Committees role primarily covers the following areas: specific projects.
Financial reporting: We will review the approach and judgements made in applying forthcoming financial reporting standards, including Revenue Recognition Ongoing viability: and Leases.
Risk management systems: Internal controls: We will continue to monitor the level of financial support provided to our First Opinion vet practices and keep under review any activity that might Internal audit: and change existing accounting practices.
Pets at Home Group Plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Audit and Risk Committee meetings The Committee met on four occasions during the financial year with each Meetings 2017 18 meeting having a distinct agenda to reflect the annual reporting cycle of J F M A the Group.
The planner is regularly reviewed and developed to meet the M J J A changing needs of the Group.
S O N D A summary of the key matters considered at each meeting is as follows: Risk management Meeting Financial reporting internal control Internal Audit External audit Review of the Annual Report Review development of the Review and approval of Report on Annual Financial and Accounts for year Corporate Risk Register Internal Audit Plan for Statements and external May ended 30 March 2017 Review of risk register the year audit 2017 Review of Goodwill specific to Joint Venture Review reports on: Final evaluation of external impairment review companies Overrider payments auditor for year ended 30 Review of recognition of Review of IT controls Customer data security March 2017 supplier income Review of Information Joint Venture company Consideration of the Security support Groups longer term viability and going concern Planning for new standards Review development of the Review reports on progress Process to assess on Revenue Recognition Corporate Risk Register of Internal Audit Plan external auditor Sept and Lease accounting Review of the Retail Loss Review reports on: Review feedback from 2017 Planning for Reporting on Prevention plan Retail VAT processes Executive Management Payment practices GDPR preparation on external auditor Review of emerging tax Processing colleagues effectiveness from the reporting requirements expenses prior year Vet Group clinical governance processes Financial System access controls Review of the Interim Review development of the Review reports on progress Report on Review of Interim Financial Statements Corporate Risk Register of Internal Audit Plan Financial Statements Nov Review of Information Review reports on: 2017 Security Transport office GDPR preparation Planning for new standards Review development of the Review reports on progress Review of external audit on Revenue Recognition Corporate Risk Register of Internal Audit Plan strategy for the year ended Jan and Lease accounting Review of Treasury policy Review reports on: 29 March 2018.
2018 Planning for Reporting on GDPR preparation Cash and Banking Process to assess external Payment practices processes auditor issue of Joint Venture Partner questionnaire selection recruitment and support Consideration of FY19 Internal Audit Plan Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Financial statement reporting issues The Committee considered a number of significant issues in the year, taking into account in all instances the views of the Companys external auditor.
The Committee consider the key risks within the Financial Statements to be the carrying value of goodwill and the carrying value of inventory.
The Committee considered the following in making their assessment of the reporting in the financial statements.
Issue Nature of the risk How the risk was addressed by the Committee Carrying The Group holds a significant goodwill balance.
There are a The Committee reviewed and challenged managements value of number of factors that could impact on the future profitability process for testing goodwill for potential impairment and goodwill of the business e. g. threat of competition, changes in ensuring appropriate sensitivity disclosure.
This included market behaviour, changes in the broader macro-economic challenging the key assumptions: principally cash flow forecasts, environment and there is a risk that the business will not meet growth rates and discount rates and comparing the Groups the required financial performance to support the carrying value value in use to its market capitalisation.
The Committee also reviewed KPMGs work and conclusions on this risk and the key assumptions they tested in reaching their conclusions.
The Committee is satisfied that there is no impairment to the goodwill balance and that there is appropriate disclosure in the financial statements.
See note 11 of the financial statements for details on the impairment testing.
Inventory The business carries a wide range of Stock Keeping Units SKUs The Committee reviewed managements judgement in valuation and with a variety of expiry dates on most food lines.
Changes assessing the required level of inventory provisioning and in customer demand may mean that some lines cannot be sold, concluded that the method of estimating the carrying value or will be sold below carrying value.
Whilst provisions are made of inventory and that the level of provisioning is appropriate.
to reflect this, there is a risk that the provisions are inadequate.
Management have established a detailed range review process to identify action to be taken against inventory lines and assess the required inventory provision.
Carrying The business provides additional financial support to First The Committee reviewed internal audit reports on partner value of Opinion practices depending on the circumstance of each selection and support provided to Joint Venture companies.
This may include more recent openings to underpin The Committee reviewed managements judgement, as loans their growth and support their working capital requirements and informed by independent analysis and review, in assessing growth in clinical capacity.
the required level of provisioning applied to practices and the This investment is a particular feature of the JV operating model forecast recovery of operating loans provided.
in comparison to an owned network where overperformance The Committee is satisfied that the carrying values of operating from stronger units compensates any underperformance.
In loan balances are appropriate.
making this investment the Group does so after consideration The Committee reviewed managements assessment of whether of its total returns across all practices on a portfolio basis.
the level of an individual practices indebtedness to the Group, The return of this additional investment can be over an extended particularly those with high levels of indebtedness, implies that period due to each individual circumstance.
the Group has the practical ability to control the Joint Venture, Management have established clear Joint Venture partner which would result in the requirement to consolidate.
The selection criteria and provide a range of commercial support Committee reviewed managements judgement over the terms and advice to enable practices to grow their revenues, maximise of the Joint Venture agreement and managements practical margin, reduce costs and generate cash.
ability to control the activities of the practice, including barriers to the Groups ability to exercise this practical control and Management have established a provision across all practices potential barriers to the Joint Venture Partner exercising their which reflects, on a portfolio basis, an assessment of extended own control over the activities of the practice.
The Committee investments being repaid over different lengths of time with is satisfied that on the balance of evidence from the Groups different risks of return against these time periods and provides experience as shareholder and lender to the practices, it does for potential shortfalls.
not currently have the ability to exercise control over those practices to which operating loans are advanced.
Pets at Home Group Plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Ongoing viability Specific work performed during the year in our key risk In considering viability overall, the Committee reviewed the areas included: Groups strategic plan with particular focus on the key Risk area Work undertaken assumptions in relation to revenue and our store and service Brand and reputation Review of Vet Group clinical expansion plans.
Sensitivities to these key assumptions were governance policies and processes also reviewed based on the impact of the Groups key risks, Review of selection process individually and conflated, as set out on pages 34 to 37. for Joint Venture partners Following a review of the detailed considerations set out Overrider payments above by the Committee and Executive Management, the Regulatory and compliance VAT compliance processes Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate for the Group to Review of expenses policy and processing continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group and, further, that Liquidity and credit risk Cash settlement processes for retail operation the Longer Term Viability Statement on page 67 is appropriate.
Business systems and Review of Financial System Risk management and internal controls information security access controls Risk management and the system of internal control are the Review of GDPR readiness responsibility of the Board.
It ensures that there is a process in Customer data security at place to identify, assess and manage significant risks that may third parties affect achievement of the Groups objectives and that the level Treasury and financial risk Joint Venture partner support and profile of such risks is acceptable.
The Committee provides and business development oversight and challenge to the assessment of principal risks as All reports, related findings and recommended actions have set out on page 32.
The Groups key risks and uncertainties are been discussed by the Committee and are tracked to set out on pages 34 to 37. completion.
The Committee explores specific key risks of the Group in External audit detail, inviting the management team to discuss the issues KPMG presents their audit plan, risk assessment and audit and mitigations and further proposed actions.
During the year, findings to the Committee, identifying their consideration of the Committee reviewed the Groups approach to the the key audit risks for the year and the scope of their work.
protection of confidential and personal data and considered These reports are discussed throughout the audit cycle.
As in risks specific to the Retail and Vet Group operations.
the prior year, these risks were considered to be the carrying Internal Audit value of goodwill and the carrying value of inventory.
In their The Internal Audit function has a direct line of report into reports presented to the Committee at both the half year and the Committee and is an important part of the assurance full year, the auditors considered these risks to be processes within the business.
The Committee reviews appropriately addressed and raised no significant areas of and approves the Internal Audit Plan for the year which concern in these or any other areas of their review.
is developed to address key risks across the business as KPMG also attend the Committee meetings and meet well as reviewing core governance, financial and separately, without management present, to discuss any commercial processes.
The Head of Internal Audit and Risk attends each Committee We are in compliance with the Order and performed a tender meeting, updating on progress against the audit plan process which concluded in January 2015.
KPMG, who have throughout the year, reporting on any key control weaknesses audited the Group since 2000, were reappointed at the AGM identified and progress against mitigating actions.
Nicola Quayle has been the audit partner since 2016.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued External auditors effectiveness The Committee considered the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors through the review of all reports provided, regular contact and dialogue both during Committee meetings and separately without management.
Following the conclusion of the prior year audit, we conducted an audit effectiveness review through a questionnaire to Committee members, management and member of the Finance team.
This questionnaire expanded on the process in the previous year, providing more focused insight into KPMGs effectiveness.
The results were discussed with KPMG and specific actions were agreed.
Auditor independence Maintaining the objectivity and independence of the external auditors is essential.
The Committee has taken appropriate steps to ensure that the Companys external auditors are independent of the Company and obtained written confirmation from them that they comply with guidelines on independence issued by the relevant accountancy and auditing bodies.
Additional non-audit services provided by the auditors may impair their independence or give rise to a perception that their independence may be impaired.
The Group has a policy in relation to the provision on non-audit services that is aligned with the EU Regulation and Statutory Audit Directive to provide further clarity over the type of work that is acceptable for the external auditors to carry out.
The policy sets out the process required for approval and a cap to the total non-audit fees for permitted services at 70% of the audit fee the policy was last reviewed in the year ended 30 March 2017.
Audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG in the year were 271,000 and an analysis is presented in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 127.
Non-audit fees represent 15% of the audit fee.
Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG as auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting that will take place on 12 July 2018.
Sharon Flood Chairman Audit and Risk Committee 21 May 2018 Pets at Home Group Plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
