Governance report Clear and consistent governance framework Corporate Social Responsibility Committees development of our omnichannel strategy, and brings valuable veterinary services and more recently, the repositioning of sector experience to the Board.
In November 2017, Nicolas Gheysens During the year, further elements of also resigned from the Board.
Nicolas our succession plan were implemented, had been appointed to the Board as with Andrei Balta being appointed into the nominated representative of the the role of CEO of the Vet Group Companys then Principal Shareholder, following Sally Hopsons resignation KKR My Best Friend Limited, an affiliate of on 23 March 2018.
Andrei joined Pets Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L. P.. KKR My at Home in 2011 as Director of Group Best Friend Limited determined at that Strategy and moved to the veterinary The Board aims to achieve time not to replace Nicolas on the Board business in 2013, firstly as Commercial as it was otherwise entitled to do under Director and subsequently as Chief the highest standards of the terms of the Relationship Agreement Operating Officer.
Prior to Pets at Home, corporate governance.
entered into with the Company.
Andrei was a management consultant at Bain & Company for seven years.
Tony DeNunzio During the financial period Amy Stirling Non-Executive Chairman We progressed the actions that were and Paul Coby stepped down from the highlighted from the 2017 internal Board Board with effect from the close of the evaluation which emphasised the need to Chairmans introduction Annual General Meeting on 11 July 2017 in order to fulfil commitments in their further increase the Boards focus on talent On behalf of the Board, I am pleased full time roles.
Amy was succeeded by and succession planning particularly below to present our Corporate Governance Sharon Flood, Chair of ST Du Pont S. A, the Board and Executive Management Team Report for the financial year ended Paris based luxury goods company and level.
To support this work, the Board 29 March 2018.
As Chairman, my role is to Audit Chair at Crest Nicholson plc and commissioned a review of the Groups manage the Board, ensuring it operates Network Rail.
Paul was replaced by banding structure in order to develop effectively and contains the right balance Stanislas Laurent who was appointed clearer career pathways for colleagues of skills, diversity and experience to on 25 May 2017.
Stanislas was formerly and the Groups People strategy has successfully execute the Groups long President and CEO of Photobox and COO been revised to provide for a greater term strategy.
The Group is committed to of AOL Europe.
Sharon has been appointed emphasis on colleague development promoting high standards of corporate as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee and talent retention.
The Non-Executive governance to ensure that the Group is and is a member of the Remuneration Directors continued to spend time with managed with integrity and transparency.
Committee and the Nomination and the leadership teams outside of formal This has been reflected in the activities that Governance Committee.
Stanislas is a meetings to gain a deeper insight into key we have undertaken throughout the year.
member of the Audit and Risk Committee, rising talent throughout the organisation.
Principal governance activities Nomination and Governance Committee, during the financial year The following pages set out our Corporate Social Responsibility Committee In November 2017, Ian Kellett notified me governance processes within the and Pets Before Profit Committee.
of his intention to step down as Group Group.
We recognise that corporate Chief Executive Officer.
Ians resignation More recently Tessa Green confirmed that governance touches all aspects of our as a Director took effect on 27 March 2018 she will step down from the Board with business, it underpins the management although he will remain employed by the effect from close of the Annual General of our risk profile and it also affects our Group until 31 May 2018.
Ian joined Pets Meeting on 12 July 2018.
Tessa has been colleagues in many different ways.
at Home in April 2006 as Chief Financial a Director of Pets at Home since 2014 and I look forward to meeting shareholders at Officer and moved to the role of Group during that time has been Chair of the our next Annual General Meeting which Chief Executive Officer in April 2016.
As Corporate Social Responsibility Committee will be held on 12 July 2018 at 11.00 a. m. part of the Boards succession plan, we and the Pets Before Profit Committee.
I at the Hallmark Hotel, Stanley Rd, are delighted that Peter Pritchard, CEO would like to thank Tessa for her valuable Handforth, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 3LD.
of the Retail Group, has succeeded contribution to the business and convey the Ian as Group Chief Executive Officer.
Groups best wishes to her going forward.
Peter joined Pets at Home in 2011 as Tessa will be succeeded by Professor Susan Commercial Director and moved to the Dawson, Dean of the Institute of Veterinary role of CEO of Retail in 2015.
During his Science at the University of Liverpool and time with the Group, Peter has overseen council member of the Royal College of Tony DeNunzio the establishment of our sourcing office Veterinary Surgeons.
Professor Dawson Chairman, Pets at Home Group Plc in China, the launch of the VIP club, the will Chair the Pets Before Profit and 21 May 2018 Pets at Home Group Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The following Governance Report outlines how the Board has applied the main principals of good governance as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 Code, the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs and the Listing Rules LRs.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and, except as set out below, the Board has complied with and intends to continue to comply with the requirements of the Code.
Pets at Home Group Plc Board The Company is led and controlled by the Board.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees and the day-to-day management to the Executive Management Team.
Further details can be found on pages 55 to 57.
Board Committees Audit and Risk Committee Nomination and Corporate Remuneration Committee Pets Before Corporate Social Due consideration of laws Governance Committee Assists the Board in Profit Committee Responsibility Committee and regulations, framework Oversight of Board determining responsibilities Oversight on pet welfare Oversight on strategy of controls, the provisions composition and on Directors remuneration.
and achieving strategy on for responsible retailing of the Code and the succession planning.
including engagement, requirements of the sourcing, community Listing Rules.
Members Members Members Members Members Sharon Flood Chair Tony DeNunzio Chair Paul Moody Chair Tessa Green Chair Tessa Green Chair Dennis Millard Dennis Millard Dennis Millard Tony DeNunzio Tony DeNunzio Paul Moody Tessa Green Tessa Green Dennis Millard Dennis Millard Stanislas Laurent Paul Moody Sharon Flood Stanislas Laurent Stanislas Laurent Sharon Flood Stanislas Laurent Executive Management Team Executive Management Team and Retail and Investment Committee Health and Safety Committee Vet Group Executive Management Teams Ensures the Groups new store, veterinary surgery Oversees Group Health and Safety matters.
Executive Management Team as detailed and Specialist Referral Centre investment process on page 61 leads on strategy and its execution: is managed effectively.
and Retail and Vet Group Executive Management Teams implement strategy set by the Executive Management Team in their respective divisions.
Governance Report The Governance Report for FY18 covers the following areas: Relations with the Companys shareholders and the Annual Leadership Effectiveness of the Board Board Committees General Meeting Read more Read more Read more Read more Page 50 Page 52 Page 55 Page 58 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Governance report continued Leadership Board composition Matters reserved for Board approval Board tenure A formal schedule of matters is reserved to the Board for its approval, which includes the matters listed below.
The separation of responsibilities between 6 years or more 1 the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer, coupled with the reserved 3-5 years 3 matters described below, ensures that no individual has unfettered powers 1-2 years 1 of decision-making.
Less than one year 3 Group strategy and risk management Board membership, Agreement of the Groups strategy: Committees, notices Delegation of authority to the Group Approval of extension of activities into Chief Executive Officer: new businesses or geographical areas: Membership of the Board Board, Executive Management Team and Approval of any decisions to cease to Senior Management appointments, operate all or any material part of the Non-Executive Chairman 1 arrangements and succession planning: Groups business: Executive Directors 2 Setting of Board Committees Terms Financial and internal controls Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 of Reference: Changes to the structure and capital of the Group: Approval of shareholder communications, circulars and Notices of Meetings: Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls: Corporate governance Review of the Groups corporate Approval of financial statements and Role of the Board and delegating duties governance matters: results announcements: Approving significant expenditure, material transactions and contracts: Board collectively responsible Reviewing and agreeing Group tax for sustainable and treasury policy: performance Delegation of duties to The Role of the Board listing, and continue to believe that Committees approved by Division of responsibilities Tony DeNunzio does not meet the the Board Group success The Company is led and controlled independence criteria set out in the and sustainability by the Board which is collectively Code, the Board believes that Tony responsible for the long term and should remain as Non-Executive sustainable performance of the Group.
Chairman of the Group since he The roles of Chairman and Group Chief brings vast retail experience and Executive Officer are separate and knowledge to the Pets at Home clearly defined, with the division of team.
The Directors consider that The Board currently consists of five responsibilities set out in writing and he exercises his role as Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors agreed by the Board.
The definitions of independently of management and one Non-Executive Chairman.
the roles are published on the Groups and exercises his judgement in The Directors biographies are contained website https: investors.
the interests of all shareholders.
The Board considers com investors shareholderthat all of its Non-Executive Directors Board composition information governance ourare independent in character and Board balance and independence committees.
judgement and that both individually The Code recommends that at least and collectively, the Directors have the The Code recommends that, on half the board of directors of a UK-listed range of skills, knowledge, diversity of appointment, the chairman of a company, excluding the chairman, experience and dedication necessary company with a premium listing on should comprise non-executive to lead the Group and also contribute the Official List should meet the directors determined by the board significantly to the work of the Board independence criteria set out in the to be independent in character and together with the requisite strategic and Code.
Tony DeNunzio joined Pets at judgement and free from relationships commercial experience.
More than half Home in 2010 and has been Nonor circumstances which may affect, of the Directors excluding the Chairman Executive Chairman of the Group since or could appear to affect, the are considered to be independent in March 2010.
Notwithstanding that the directors judgement.
Board did not consider at the time of Pets at Home Group Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Directors biographies Page 60 Board responsibilities Role Main responsibilities Chairman Manages and provides leadership to the Board of Directors: of the Board Acts as a direct liaison between the Board and the management of the Company, through the Group Chief Executive Officer: Ensures that the Directors are properly informed and that sufficient information is provided to enable the Directors to form appropriate judgements: In conjunction with the Group Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary, develops and sets the agendas for meetings of the Board: Recommends an annual schedule of the date, time and location of Board and Committee meetings: and Ensures effective communications with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company: Group Chief Executive Officer Together with the Executive Management Team, is responsible for executing the strategy, once it has been agreed by the Board: Creates a framework that optimises resource allocation to deliver the Groups agreed strategic objectives over varying timeframes: Ensures the successful delivery against the financial business plan and other key business objectives, allocating decision making and responsibilities accordingly: Together with the Executive Management Team identifies and executes new business opportunities and potential acquisitions or disposals: and Manages the Group with reference to its risk profile in the context of the Boards risk appetite.
Senior An Independent Non-Executive Director: Independent Provides a sounding board for the Chairman: Director Serves as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: and Is available to shareholders if they have concerns, which contact through the normal channels of the Group Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Provide constructive challenge to the Executive Management Team: Non-Executive Directors Help develop proposals on strategy: Scrutinise managements performance in meeting agreed goals and objectives: Monitor performance reports: Satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information and that controls and risk management systems are robust and defensible: and Determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors, appointing and removing Executive Directors, and succession planning.
Group Chief Management of the financial risks of the Group: Financial Officer Responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, as well as financial reporting to the Board of Directors and shareholders: and Ensures effective compliance and control and responding to ever increasing regulatory developments, including financial reporting, capital requirements, and corporate responsibility.
Board observer The CEO of the Vet Group is a Board observer: Right to receive notice of, attend and speak at Board meetings: and No entitlement to vote on any matter requiring a resolution of the Board.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Governance report continued Appointment of Directors by the Effectiveness of the Board Principal Shareholder Directors induction and by Stanislas Laurent.
Sharon has been Pursuant to the terms of the Relationship ongoing training appointed as Chair of the Audit and Agreement with the Principal It is important to the Board that NonRisk Committee and is a member of Shareholder, KKR My Best Friend Limited, Executive Directors have the ability to the Remuneration Committee and an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & influence and challenge appropriately.
the Nomination and Governance Co. L. P. had, during the financial period, New Directors receive a full, formal and Committee.
Stanislas is a member of the the ability to appoint: tailored induction on joining the Board, Audit and Risk Committee, Nomination two Non-Executive Directors to the including meeting with the Executive and Governance Committee, Corporate Board for so long as the Principal Management Team and advisors.
The Social Responsibility Committee and Shareholder and or any of its induction includes visits to the Groups Pets Before Profit Committee.
associates, when taken together held stores, veterinary surgeries, distribution More recently Tessa Green confirmed 20% or more of the voting rights centres, Specialist Referral Centres and that she will step down from the Board attaching to the Companys Ordinary other operational locations together with effect from the close of the Annual Shares: or with training on the Groups core values General Meeting on 12 July 2018.
Tessa one Non-Executive Director for so including environmental, social and has been a Director of Pets at Home long as it and or any of its associates, governance issues.
Individual training since 2014 and during that time has when taken together held 10% or needs are reviewed regularly and training been Chair of the Corporate Social more but less than 20% of the voting is provided where a need is identified or Responsibility Committee and the Pets rights attaching to the Companys requested.
All Directors receive frequent Before Profit Committee.
I would like to Ordinary Shares.
updates on a variety of issues relevant thank Tessa for her valuable contribution to the Groups business, including to the business and convey the Groups Although Tony DeNunzio had not been regulatory and governance issues.
best wishes to her going forward.
Tessa appointed as a Director by the Principal Appointments will be succeeded by Professor Susan Shareholder, the Principal Shareholder In November 2017, Ian Kellett notified the Dawson, Dean of the Institute of had agreed that for so long as it had the Chairman of his intention to step down Veterinary Science at the University of right to appoint two Directors to the Board as Group Chief Executive Officer.
Ians Liverpool and council member of the and Tony DeNunzio was a Director, the resignation as a Director took effect on Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
Principal Shareholder would not exercise 27 April 2018 although he will remain Professor Dawson will Chair the Pets its right to appoint a second Director to employed by the Group until 31 May Before Profit and Corporate Social the Board.
Ians resignation required the Group Responsibility Committees.
also had the right to appoint one Board to implement its succession plan and observer for so long as it held voting rights Appointment terms and elections Peter Pritchard, CEO of the Retail Group, over more than 10% of the Companys of Directors succeeded Ian as Group Chief Executive shares.
The Principal Shareholder had All Directors have service agreements or Officer with effect from 27 April 2018. appointed Nicolas Gheysens as a letters of appointment and the details of Non-Executive Director and to be its As noted above, in November 2017, their terms are set out in the Directors nominated representative on the Board.
Nicolas Gheysens also resigned from the Remuneration Report on pages 91 to 93.
In November 2017, Nicolas Gheysens Board.
Nicolas had been appointed to the The service agreements and letters of resigned from the Board and the Board as the nominated representative appointment are available for inspection Principal Shareholder determined at that of the Companys then Principal at the Companys registered office time not to exercise its rights under the Shareholder, KKR My Best Friend Limited, during normal business hours.
Relationship Agreement entered into an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & At each Annual General Meeting of the with the Company to replace Nicolas Co. L. P.. KKR My Best Friend Limited Company all Directors will stand for position on the Board.
determined at that time not to exercise its re-election in accordance with the Code.
rights under the Relationship Agreement For further details of the Relationship entered into with the Company to Considering diversity Agreement and confirmation of replace Nicolas position on the Board.
The Board understands the importance compliance with the provisions set out in of having a diverse membership and During the financial period Amy Stirling the Relationship Agreement, see page 70 recognises that diversity encompasses not and Paul Coby stepped down from the of the Directors Report.
On 29 January only gender but also background and Board with effect from the close of the 2018, the Principal Shareholder divested experience.
Whilst the Board believes that Annual General Meeting on 11 July 2017 of its remaining stake in the Company appointments should be made solely on in order to fulfil commitments in their and reduced its shareholding in the merit, we seek to ensure that the Board full time roles.
Amy was succeeded by Company to nil.
The Relationship maintains an appropriate balance through Agreement has accordingly terminated.
Sharon Flood whilst Paul was replaced Pets at Home Group Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Gender diversity 2018 Board considerations During the year the Board spent its time considering a wide range of matters.
These included: Strategy: Approving significant items of capital expenditure and contracts, investments, Succession planning: treasury and dividend policy: Performance overall of individual Board Job levelling and banding across businesses and functions in the Group: Male 6 75% the Group: Budgets and long term plans for Shareholder feedback and reports the Group: Female 2 25% from brokers and analysts: Financial statements, announcements Regulatory updates: and financial reporting matters: Executive Management Team Risk management and controls in Reviewing reports from the Committees, Male 3 75% the Group including reputational notably on audit strategy, remuneration, risks and corporate governance: and succession planning, the Groups Female 1 25% corporate social responsibility strategy Delegated authorities.
and measures in place to ensure that Retail Group Executive Pets Before Profit is maintained as the Management Team Companys number one value: Male 6 67% How the Board is spending its time through the year Female 3 33% Project Vet Group Executive approvals Management Team Financial performance Male 2 50% reporting Female 2 50% 5% Strategic Group 20% matters Male 3,466 26% Female 9,950 74% a diverse mix of experience, backgrounds, 25% skills, knowledge and insight, to further strengthen the diversity of gender and 10% experience already on the Board.
Notably, two of the five Independent Non-Executive Directors, Tessa Green and Sharon Flood, Leadership are female together with the Chief People and people and Legal Officer and Company Secretary, 20% development, Louise Stonier.
These appointments were inc. succession 20% made entirely on merit, and not on the basis of gender, the appointees being by far the strongest candidates for the Governance, positions with their skill sets and overall Risk management inc. shareholder experience fitting the objective role and internal controls engagement description approved by the Board at the outset of the recruitment process.
This policy applies equally to all appointments in the Company including in respect of the Retail Group Executive Management Team where Lisa Miao is Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Governance report continued Board meetings and attendance Number of meetings attended Attendance for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings in the financial period is given in the table below.
Nomination Corporate & Corporate Social Pets Remuneration Audit & Risk Governance Responsibility Before Profit Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Number of meetings 9 3 4 2 2 3 2 Director Tony DeNunzio Chairman 9 9 n a n a 2 2 2 2 3 3 Dennis Millard Deputy Chairman 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 2 2 3 3 Ian Kellett 8 9 n a n a n a n a n a Mike Iddon 9 9 n a n a n a n a n a Tessa Green 9 9 3 3 n a 1 2 2 2 3 3 Paul Moody 8 9 2 3 4 4 2 2 n a n a 3 Sharon Flood 6 9 2 3 3 4 2 2 n a n a 4 Stanislas Laurent 7 9 n a 3 4 2 2 1 2 3 3 5 Amy Stirling 2 9 1 3 1 4 0 2 n a n a 6 Paul Coby 2 9 0 3 1 4 0 2 1 2 0 3 7 Nicolas Gheysens 6 9 n a n a 1 2 n a n a 1 Excludes the strategy day which all Directors attended.
2 Only attendance of formal members of the meetings is included.
Attendance as an observer is not included.
3 Sharon Flood was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 25 May 2017.
4 Stanislas Laurent was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 25 May 2017.
5 Amy Stirling resigned as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 11 July 2017.
6 Paul Coby resigned as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 11 July 2017.
7 Nicolas Gheysens resigned as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 28 November 2017. appointed Commercial Director and Suzie as and when appropriate in Directors keep abreast of developments Williams as Business Systems Director and consultation with the Board and in the Group.
For the Board, these the Vet Group Executive Management Executive Management Team.
meetings are an opportunity to meet Team, where Fiona Briault and Julie Ross colleagues below the level of the All Directors receive papers in advance are appointed as respectively Director for Executive Management Team and for of Board meetings via an electronic People, Operations and Partnerships and colleagues asked to present, this is a board paper system which enables the Commercial Director.
We were delighted valuable part of their career development.
fast dissemination of quality information to see Julie Ross appointed into this role in a safe and secure manner.
These The Chairman meets regularly with in this last financial year.
include a monthly Board report with the Non-Executive Directors without Board meetings and attendance updates from each of the Executive the Executive Directors present and this practice will continue in the future.
In this financial year, the Board met Management Team, which monitors the The Senior Independent Director also formally nine times, plus attended achievements against the Groups key attended these sessions.
Ad hoc performance indicators, both financial meetings of both the Board and and strategic.
Performance against It is important to the Group that all Committees were arranged to deal budget is reported to the Board monthly Directors understand external views with matters between scheduled and any substantial variances are of the Group.
Throughout the year, board meetings as appropriate.
Forecasts for the year are regular reporting is provided to the meetings were preceded by Committee revised and reviewed monthly.
Board by the Companys Director of meetings with the meetings lasting Members of the Retail Group Executive Investor Relations, covering broker the majority of the day in most cases.
Management Team and Vet Group reports and the output of meetings Topics for the Board meetings are Executive Management Team are also with significant shareholders.
determined at the beginning of the invited to present at Board meetings year and new items are added to this from time to time so that Non-Executive Pets at Home Group Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Board Committees The Board has established three Non-Executive Directors, Executive Each Committee has written terms of Board Committees: an Audit and Directors and colleagues.
The Board reference which are approved by the Risk Committee, a Nomination and has also established the Investment Board and subject to review each year.
Corporate Governance Committee, and Committee and Health and Safety These are available on request from the a Remuneration Committee.
In addition, Committee which comprises Executive Company Secretary and are published the Board has also established the Pets Directors and colleagues.
If the need on the Groups website https: Before Profit Committee and the should arise, the Board may set up investors.
com investors Corporate Social Responsibility CSR additional committees as appropriate.
governance our-committees Committee which comprise both Key objectives and responsibilities of the Board Committees Key objectives Main responsibilities duties Audit and Risk to assist the Board fulfil its monitor the integrity of Group financial statements: Committee corporate governance and review and challenge accounting policies, unusual transactions: overseeing responsibilities assumptions qualifications on viability: in relation to an entitys compliance with accounting standards: financial reporting, internal review clarity and completeness of financial statements: control system, risk oversee material information presented with financial statements: management system and review content of Annual Report and Accounts to advise if fair, balanced and internal and external audit appropriate for shareholders: functions: assessment and advice on risk management system: review and advice on adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial and regulatory controls: monitoring and review of internal and external audit: and review of whistleblowing, fraud and compliance.
Remuneration to assist the Board in responsibility for setting, monitoring and reviewing the remuneration policy: Committee determining its consultation on major changes to employee benefit structure: responsibilities in relation approval and determination of performance related pay schemes with regard to Directors remuneration.
to the Code and LRs : responsible for selection and appointment of remuneration consultants: review, design and assessment of share incentive plans: review of Director pension arrangements: and approval of Director service contracts and severance.
Nomination to assist the Board in reviewing structure, size and composition of the Board: and Corporate considering the structure, Board succession planning: Governance size and composition of evaluation of Board appointments with consideration to matters such as skill, Committee the Board whilst advising experience, knowledge, diversity: on succession planning.
review of Non-Executive Directors time required: review matters relating to continuation of Directors office: conduct Board performance evaluation process: and review all conflicts of interest.
Pets Before Profit to oversee Group strategy monitoring, reviewing and considering pet welfare standards across the Group: Committee on pet welfare.
monitoring and reviewing compliance with legislation relating to the sale of pets, welfare standards and veterinary medicine and engaging in the development of such legislation where appropriate: monitoring and reviewing colleague feedback on pet welfare standards: overseeing welfare in relation to pet supply, transportation and audit: monitoring impact of PR and social media: and monitoring pet processes, including audits and vet clinical standards.
Corporate Social to oversee Group corporate reviewing Group CSR policy and strategy: and Responsibility social responsibility matters.
monitoring implementation of CSR activity.
Committee Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Governance report continued The distribution centres have their Management committees sub-letting, assignments, surrenders or own dedicated health and safety Details of our management committees relocations and approving or rejecting manager and a separate health and are set out below: any such proposals as appropriate.
safety sub-committee which also meets Each of the matters approved by the Investment Committee on a regular basis.
The veterinary Investment Committee is subject to The Investment Committee assists business also has a designated health the further approval of the Board where the Board with the Groups store and it falls within the level of expenditure and safety manager and three health veterinary surgery rollout process to requiring full Board approval.
ensure the Groups investment process Investment Committee formally updates is managed effectively and rigorously Further details of the work of the health the Board at least once a year in addition throughout the Group.
The Investment and safety committee are contained on to regular updates on matters approved Committee is chaired by Mike Iddon and pages 68 to 69 of the Directors Report.
within the monthly Board packs.
its other members are Andrei Balta and Internal control and risk management Peter Pritchard.
A number of the Groups Executive Management Team, The Board is responsible for the Groups colleagues are entitled to attend meetings Retail Group and Vet Group system of internal control and for of the Investment Committee as observers Executive Management Teams reviewing its effectiveness and has including the Director of Property, the In addition to the Board, the Group has carried out a robust assessment of Group Development Director and the the Executive Management Team as the principal risks facing the Group Vet Group Partner Recruitment, Property detailed in the Governance Report including those that would threaten its and People Director.
Supporting the Executive business model, future performance, Management Team is an appointed solvency or liquidity as detailed on The Investment Committee meets divisional executive management team pages 33 to 37 of the Strategic Report.
formally at least nine times a year and for both the Retail Group and the Vet The Board delegates to the Executive otherwise as may be required.
Duties Group for which roles are clearly Management Team, the responsibility of the Investment Committee include defined.
The Retail Group Executive for designing, operating and monitoring reviewing and considering all proposals Management Team and the Vet Group these systems.
The systems are based presented for the acquisition of new Executive Management Team support on a process of identifying, evaluating stores, stand-alone First Opinion the Executive Management Team in and managing key risks and include the veterinary surgeries, Specialist Referral the implementation of strategy across risk management processes set out on Centres, support offices, distribution their respective divisions.
pages 33 to 37 of the Strategic Report centres and any other type of property Health and safety and page 75 of the Audit and Risk for which occupation is proposed for Health and safety is a key priority for Committee Report.
use by a member of the Group: the Board and senior management approving all material variations and The systems of internal control were and is an item for review and discussion works of a capital nature proposed to in place throughout the period and up at each Board meeting.
The Board be carried out to any property in which to the date of approval of the Annual has established a health and safety the Group has a right of occupation: Report.
The systems of internal control committee that meets at least on a approving all material variations to are designed to manage rather than quarterly basis and is chaired by the proposed property and stand-alone eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Chief People and Legal Officer with the surgery acquisitions: periodically business objectives.
They can only agenda led by the Group Head of Health reviewing proposed changes to the provide reasonable and not absolute and Safety.
The committee is attended reporting and presentation of property assurance against material errors, by key individuals in the business investment criteria: reviewing all losses, fraud or breaches of law and that are responsible for certain areas proposals presented for lease renewals regulations.
A number of internal of health and safety including the and reviewing alternative strategies for controls operate across the business.
veterinary business, retail and grooming new store investment, formats and The key controls the business relied and the committee is tasked with geographical markets and reporting upon during the year are set out below: reviewing the Groups overall health on such strategies to the Board for final and safety performance.
A health and approval on the terms of any such safety policy is in place for the Group matter: and reviewing all proposals which is reviewed on a regular basis.
for the dispositions of all or part of any of the lease on stores including any Pets at Home Group Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report The annual Group wide strategic There is an Internal Audit department review of the business took place in in place that has its scope agreed November 2018 culminating in the with the Audit and Risk Committee preparation of a detailed three-year and has reported at each Audit and strategic plan which was reviewed Risk Committee meeting throughout and approved by the Board.
All internal audit reports this approval, the business carried out are presented to the Audit and its annual business plan and budget Risk Committee for review and cycle, again culminating in formal consideration of any material findings.
review and approval by the Board Where audit findings have been raised, on 26 April 2018. management have agreed appropriate actions and these are prioritised based Management accounts have been on risk.
Further details of the areas reviewed at meetings of the Board.
covered in the internal audit reports These reviews covered the can be found in the Audit and Risk comparison of actual performance Committee Report on page 75. against budget in the period end management accounts and A clearly articulated delegated consideration of outturn for the year.
authority framework in respect of all The period end accounts are prepared purchasing activity is in place across by the management accounts team the Group.
This is complemented by and reviewed by the Group Chief systemic controls including a contract Financial Officer.
approval policy that reflects the agreed authority framework and clear All capital investments during the segregation of duties between relevant year have been approved by the functions and departments.
Group Chief Financial Officer: an A schedule of matters reserved for authority framework is in place the Board is in place for approving which details the approvals required significant transactions and strategic for specific levels of capital spend and organisational change.
including those capital projects requiring full Board approval.
In line Board discussion of the key risks and with delegation by the Board, the uncertainties facing the Group and Investment Committee, chaired by the risk management system together the Group Chief Financial Officer, has with deep dives on a number of key reviewed and approved investments risk areas.
Further details are contained in respect of the acquisition and fit-out in the Audit and Risk Committee of new stores, and new standalone Report on page 72. and in store veterinary practices and for Specialist Referral Centres.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Governance report continued Shareholder relations The Boards primary role is to promote All of the Non-Executive Directors A copy of the Groups Code of Ethics the success of the Company and the are available to meet with major and Business Conduct is published on interests of shareholders.
The Board is shareholders, if they wish to raise issues the Groups website https: investors.
accountable to shareholders for the separately from the arrangements as petsathome.
com responsibility performance and activities of the Group.
 code-ofThe Board is responsible for ensuring .
All Directors will be available at the the Company maintains a satisfactory This policy and the procedures in place Annual General Meeting to meet with dialogue with shareholders.
The Board to deal with concerns raised under the shareholders and answer their questions.
believes it is important to explain policy were reviewed by the Audit and business developments and financial Directors conflicts of interest Risk Committee during the year.
results to the Companys shareholders The Articles of Association of the Share dealing code and to understand any shareholder Company give the Directors the power The Company has adopted a share concerns.
We communicate with to consider and, if appropriate, authorise dealing code in relation to its shares.
conflict situations where a Directors The share dealing code applies to the declared interest may conflict or The Board communicates with its Directors, its other Persons Discharging does conflict with the interests of shareholders in respect of the Groups Managerial Responsibility and certain the Company.
business activities through its Annual colleague insiders of Group companies Report, yearly and half yearly Procedures are in place at every and they are responsible for procuring announcements and other regular meeting for individual Directors to the compliance of their respective trading statements.
This information report and record any potential or connected persons with the Companys is also made publicly available via actual conflicts which arise.
The register share dealing code.
of reported conflicts is reviewed by Board evaluation and effectiveness the Board at least annually.
The Board During the year, the Company met The effectiveness of the Board is has complied with these procedures regularly with analysts and institutional important to the success of the Group, during the year.
investors and such meetings will and the Boards annual evaluation continue.
The Group Chief Executive Whistleblowing policy provides a useful opportunity for the Officer and Group Chief Financial The Company has a duty to conduct its Directors to reflect on their collective Officer have lead responsibility for affairs in an open and responsible way.
and individual effectiveness and investor relations.
They are supported We are committed to high standards of consider changes.
by a dedicated Director of Investor corporate governance and compliance Process and focus Relations who, amongst other matters, with legislation and appropriate codes The Board evaluation for 2018 was organises presentations for analysts of practice.
By knowing about any carried out internally using an online and institutional investors and ensures wrong doing or malpractice at an early questionnaire.
The online questionnaire that procedures are in place to keep stage, we stand a good chance of taking was prepared by the Company Secretary.
the Board regularly informed of such the necessary steps to stop it.
We The questionnaire asked questions to investors views.
In addition, the relaunched our whistleblowing policy assess performance in a range of areas Company arranges visits to its stores in FY17.
The policy is designed to including Board strategy, leadership and and other operations for analysts and encourage colleagues to identify such culture and sought to gauge the extent shareholders and this year held a situations and report them without fear of perceived progress of the Board and capital markets day in order to explain of repercussions or recriminations the Board Committees in the areas of aspects of business performance and provided that they are acting in good development identified in the Board strategy.
This last financial year also faith.
The policy sets out how any evaluation undertaken in 2017.
Due to the saw the Company undertake an concerns may be raised and the changes to the Board during the financial extensive consultation process with response which can be expected from period and in preparation for Peter major shareholders in connection the Company and in what timescales.
Pritchard stepping up to the role of Group with the Groups review, development Chief Executive Officer, the evaluation and ultimate adoption, at the 2017 also focused on Board composition Annual General Meeting, of its current and expertise and Board dynamics.
Pets at Home Group Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Outputs of the evaluation At a dedicated Board session, a report of the findings of the evaluation and its recommendations were discussed and specific actions agreed.
Overall, the majority of areas have seen an improvement in the scoring, however, the following have been identified as requiring additional focus: redefining the relationship between the Board and the Executive Management Team following a period of management change: succession and talent management and development below Board and Executive Management Team level: visibility and depth of the People strategy and Company culture: presentation and understanding of the Groups digital and business systems strategy: and re-visiting the roles and terms of reference for the Pets Before Profits and Corporate Social Responsibility Committees.
Beyond the annual evaluation, the performance of the Group Chief Executive Officer is continuously monitored throughout the year by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors also met to discuss the performance of the Chairman without the Executive Directors or Chairman being present.
Pets at Homes investor website is also regularly updated with news and information, including this Annual Report which sets out our strategy and performance together with our plans for future growth http: investors.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59
