94 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The primary responsibilities The Committee considered Composition Responsibilities Audit Committees activities Revenue recognition Goodwill and Related party transactions delegated to, and discharged by, the control systems adopted intangible assets The Audit Committee comprises The Audit Committees primary In 2018, the Audit Committee met The Audit Committee reviewed The Audit Committee examined the Committee included: to identify potential regulatory five independent Non-executive function is to assist the Board formally four times.
the judgements made in During the year, the Audit the practices and procedures issues and the compliance Directors.
Andrew Thomas in fulfilling its financial oversight respect of revenue recognition, adopted by the Group to ensure Committee also considered the Monitoring and challenging the Matters that were considered by control systems operating stepped down as Chair of the responsibilities.
The Board in particular to assess the judgements made in relation that related party transactions are effectiveness of internal control the Committee during the year in the Group.
Discussions Committee in November 2018 is required by the Code to recognition of revenue from conducted on arms length terms.
to the valuation methodology and associated functions included: were held with the Head of and was succeeded Susan Ball, establish formal and transparent arrangements with customers adopted by management to The Committee considered the Approving and amending Regulatory and Compliance.
who is a qualified Chartered arrangements for considering and partners where the Group processes followed in relation support the carrying value of Consideration of the Groups Group accounting policies Following this review, the Accountant.
Therefore, Susan how it should apply required is to be remunerated other than goodwill and other intangible to such transactions that were Risk Register Committee was satisfied Reviewing and ensuring has recent relevant financial financial reporting standards and by way of a simple revenue entered into during 2018 and assets to determine whether Effectiveness of the Groups that adequate provisions the integrity of interim and experience, in compliance internal control principles and share arrangement and there was a risk of material concluded that these processes system of internal controls and disclosures were being annual financial statements, with the Code provision C3.1.
also for maintaining appropriate undertook a review of key had worked effectively and that misstatement in the carrying and risk management made for any potential in particular the actions and Andrew Thomas continues to relationships with the Companys contracts.
Following this review, value of these assets and the related party transactions contingent liabilities.
judgements of management Updates on people risk, be a member of the Committee external auditors, BDO.
The the Committee concluded that with entities that are related by whether an impairment should in relation thereto before and cybersecurity risks and the other members are Committees terms of reference the timing of revenue recognition be recognised.
The Committee virtue of a common significant The Audit Committee reviewed submission to the Board John Jackson, Claire Milne and can be viewed on the Companys continues to be in line with IFRS shareholder had been properly Review of internal audit plan considered the assumptions, and approved the overall tax Ian Penrose, all Non-executive website www.
BDO performed estimates and judgements made conducted on an arms length Monitoring the implementation management and strategy of Results of internal audit Directors.
The Committee is detailed audit procedures on basis and appropriately disclosed of the Companys Code of by management to support the Group during the year in reviews, management action The Audit Committees key authorised to obtain independent revenue recognition and reported the models that underpin the in the financial statements.
On Business Ethics Code of light of external and internal plans to resolve any issues objectives are the provision of advice if considered necessary.
their findings to the Committee, 27 June 2017, Brickington Trading Ethics and compliance with valuation of intangible assets in advice sought by management arising and the tracking of effective governance over the which was satisfied as a result the balance sheet.
Business plans Limited Brickington decreased their provisions and reviewed how the Group their resolution The Chief Financial Officer appropriateness of the Groups of the review process that the its holding to 6.3% and from this and cash flow forecasts prepared considers tax as part of its overall Reviewing the Companys attended all meetings of the Audit financial reporting, including the Post-acquisition reviews approach taken by the Group by management supporting the date Brickington no longer met business planning.
Consideration arrangements for its employees Committee by invitation, and the adequacy of related disclosures, Review of Committee terms in the financial statements the definition of a related party.
future performance expectations was given to transfer pricing to raise concerns, anonymously Vice President of Finance was the performance of both the of reference was appropriate.
used in the calculations were In addition, Brickington sold its studies carried out on behalf or in confidence and without invited to attend the meetings of internal and external audit entire holding on 12 November reviewed.
The Committee of the Group in the period, and fear of retaliation, about the Committee that considered function, and the management of Its work also included reviewing Business combinations considered the outcome of the 2018.
BDO undertook a review of assessed, in respect of earlier possible wrongdoing in the audited accounts and the the Groups systems of external the final and interim financial this area as part of its audit work.
impairment reviews performed studies, whether there had The Audit Committee reviewed financial reporting or other interim financial statements, as control, business risks and related statements and matters by management.
The impairment the judgements made in been any change in the basis matters arising under the Code was the external auditor, BDO compliance activities.
raised by management and Financial statements reviews were also an area of of operations in the relevant connection with the accounting of Ethics LLP BDO.
After discussions with focus for the external auditor, In particular, the Code calls for treatment for business territories.
Furthermore, given The Groups financial statements the Committee were also able both management and the Reviewing promptly all reports who reported their findings to the description of the work of that the tax rules and practices combinations during the year, are reviewed by the Audit to meet the auditors without external auditor, including the on the Company from the the Committee.
The Committee the Audit Committee to include together with the assessment of governing the e-commerce Committee in advance of their any Executive Directors being consideration of acquisition internal auditors and reviewing satisfied itself that no material its activities during the year, the environment in which the Group related liabilities in connection consideration by the Board.
present in order to receive accounting relating to business and assessing the annual impairments were required to the significant issues considered in with deferred and contingent operates continue to evolve, The Committee confirms that it feedback from them on matters combinations, and related internal audit plan carrying value of goodwill or other relation to the financial statements based on the aforementioned consideration, and any is satisfied that the auditor has such as the quality of interaction contingent consideration and Monitoring the external intangible assets.
and how they were addressed, impairment of the underlying external and internal advice fulfilled its responsibilities with with management.
Both Andrew impairments, made in the current auditors independence how the Committee assessed received, the Audit Committee investments of previous years diligence and professionalism.
Thomas and Susan Ball met and prior years, the Committee and objectivity, including Legal, regulatory the effectiveness of the external acquisitions.
The Committee considered developments and with BDO separately on several determined that the key risks Having undertaken the processes the effectiveness of the and taxation audit process, the approach of pending changes in domestic reviewed the purchase price occasions during the year to of misstatement of the Groups described above, the Committee audit services the Committee in relation to the allocations prepared by and international tax laws and Given the developing nature discuss matters involving the financial statements related is satisfied that the financial appointment or reappointment was satisfied that adequate tax Monitoring and approving the professional advisers together of the gambling sector in many audit process.
to the following areas which statements appropriately address of the auditors and how with the underlying judgements provisions and disclosures scope and costs of audit countries across the world, are described in the relevant the critical judgements and key During the year, Andrew Thomas objectivity and independence were being made for any and forecasts used to determine and evolving regulation in the Ensuring audit independence accounting policies and detailed estimates both in respect to and Susan Ball met, individually are safeguarded relative to the fair value of intangible potential liabilities.
financial trading sector, there in the Notes to the financial and pre-approving any the amounts reported and and in private, with members of non-audit services.
assets, put and call options, is a risk that potential material significant non-audit services to statements on pages 134 to 177. the disclosures.
the management team in order and contingent consideration, legal or regulatory matters are not be provided by the auditor to understand more fully the and satisfied itself that the disclosed or provided for in the Based on the above, the context and challenges of approach to the accounting financial statements and therefore Committee considers that the Playtechs business operations treatment taken by the Group was the Committee considered with Annual Report and Accounts, and thereby ensure the appropriate and in accordance the Groups compliance and legal taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, Committees time was used most with IFRS requirements and departments whether there were understandable and provides effectively.
The activities of the accounting practice.
In particular, any known instances of material the information necessary for Committee members during the Committee focused on the breaches in regulatory and shareholders to assess the the last year have enabled it acquisition of Snaitech.
licence compliance that needed Groups performance, business to continue to understand the to be disclosed or other claims model and strategy.
culture of the organisation, the that required provisions to be risks and challenges faced and made in the financial statements.
the adequacy and timeliness In particular, the Committee of the actions being taken to considered forthcoming changes address them.
in the regulatory environment in a number of jurisdictions in which the Groups licensees operate, together with the implementation of revised financial services regulations.
