88 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORT The Companys auditor, BDO LLP, With the exception of Susan Ball Board operation Keeping the other Directors Chief Executive Officer Recommendations on Introduction Compliance statement is required to review whether who was appointed as a NonThe roles of the Chairman informed of shareholders Executive leadership of the senior appointments Responsibility for corporate We continued to make the above statement reflects executive Director on 1 August attitudes towards the Company Companys business on a dayand development of the Alan Jackson and the Chief governance lies with the Board, improvements during the year the Companys compliance with 2018, Ian Penrose who was Executive Officer Mor Weizer are to-day basis management team which is committed to maintaining both to our Board structure and Safeguarding the good the Code by the Listing Rules of appointed as a Non-Executive separated, clearly defined and reputation of the Company and Developing the overall Ensuring that the affairs of high standards of corporate our governance procedures and the UK Listing Authority and to Director on 1 September 2018 and their respective responsibilities governance and is ultimately I am delighted to be able to report representing it both externally commercial objectives of the the Group are conducted report if it does not reflect such Paul Hewitt who stepped down as are summarised below.
and internally Group and proposing and with the highest standards of accountable to shareholders.
that it is the view of the Board compliance.
No such negative a Director on 1 August 2018, the developing the strategy of the integrity, probity and corporate The report which follows that the Company has been fully Acting as the guardian of Chairman report has been made.
Directors served throughout the Group in conjunction with the governance explains our most important compliant with the principles of Overall effectiveness of the the Boards decision-making financial year.
Board as a whole governance processes and the Code during 2018.
The Board is accountable to the processes running of the Board how they support the Groups Companys shareholders for good The Non-executive Directors are Responsibility, together with his Claire Milne was appointed Ensuring the Board as Promoting the highest business.
In particular, we have governance and the statement all considered by the Board to senior management team, for standards of integrity, probity as a Non-executive Director on a whole plays a full part applied the principles of good set out below describes how be independent of management the execution of the Groups 8 July 2016.
Claire is a recognised in the development and and corporate governance governance advocated by the the Group applies the principles and free of any relationship which strategy and implementation throughout the Company and expert in eGaming and determination of the Groups UK Corporate Governance Code identified in the Code.
could materially interfere with the of Board decisions technology law and regulation, strategic objectives particularly at Board level 2016 the Code.
The Code exercise of their independent with 20 years experience See also the period since last applied to Playtech throughout judgement, as explained above.
advising gaming and financial external audit tender on page 96. the financial year ended services clients as an in-house The Company Secretary acts as 31 December 2018.
A copy Matters considered by the Board in 2018 and private practice lawyer The Board secretary to the Board and its of the Code is available at and was, at the time of her Committees and his appointment www.
The FRC Composition Month Material matters considered appointment, and continues to and removal is a matter for the published a revised UK As at 31 December 2018, the be, a Partner and Team Leader January Acquisition of Snaitech Board as a whole.
The Company Corporate Governance Code Board comprised the Nonwithin the Intellectual Property Secretary is a member of the in July 2018, which applies to Review of Asian Markets executive Chairman, the Chief and Science and Technology Groups management team and accounting periods beginning Executive Officer, the Chief Review of Sun Bingo teams for Appleby Isle of Man all the Directors have access to on or after 1 January 2019.
It Financial Officer, and five LLC the Firm.
The Firm has his advice and services.
February Review of the 2017 financial results and approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2017 places a greater emphasis on independent Non-executive provided, and continues to relationships between companies, Directors.
The list of Directors Consideration of a final dividend provide, regulatory and legal shareholders and stakeholders.
holding office during the year Budget FY 2018 advice to the Company from It also promotes the importance to 31 December 2018 and their time to time: however, given Review of Asian Markets of establishing a corporate responsibilities are set out on the overall size of the Firm and culture that is aligned with the pages 86 to 87.
April Review of Asian Markets the relatively small scale of fees company purpose, business received, this relationship was Acquisition of Snaitech strategy, promotes integrity and not considered to impact on Review of Sun Bingo values diversity.
We will report on Directors name Title her independence.
In addition, how we applied the principles of May Acquisition of Snaitech in order to reinforce her Alan Jackson Non-executive Chairman good governance advocated by independence, it was agreed that Class 1 Circular the revised Code in next years following her appointment, Claire Mor Weizer Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer annual report and accounts.
Review of operations would not be involved in the Prepare for AGM and GM provision of advice by the Firm Andrew Smith Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer to the Group, her remuneration Review of mergers and acquisitions opportunities Andrew Thomas Non-executive Senior Independent Director from the Firm would not be linked, June Review of banking arrangements directly or indirectly, to the receipt John Jackson Non-executive Director Review of Sun Bingo of fees from the Group, and that any potential residual conflicts Review of tax planning Claire Milne Non-executive Director will be managed carefully.
Review of current trading Susan Ball Non-executive Director from 1 August 2018 July Trading update Ian Penrose Non-executive Director from 1 September 2018 August Review of interim results Consideration of interim dividend Paul Hewitt Non-executive Director 1 January 2018 1 August 2018 Review of tax planning September Review of transaction with Totalizator Sportowy Sp Launch of Senior Secured Notes October Investor Day Review of Sun Bingo Review of US Application Review of merger and acquisition opportunities November Trading update Full-year forecast 2019 Board evaluation Review of GDPR 90 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORT cont.
In addition to receiving reports Details of the attendance of the Major investments or In addition, the Board has The Committee works closely The Risk & Compliance How the Board functions Remuneration Committee Directors at meetings of the from the Boards Committees, capital projects adopted a formal delegation of with the Audit Committee in Committee met formally four In accordance with the Code, The Remuneration Committee reviewing the financial and Board and its Committees are set authorities memorandum which carrying out its responsibilities times during the year, and a The extension of the Groups the Board is collectively is responsible for making out in the table below.
operational performance of the sets out levels of authority for and the Chairman of the Audit summary of the key matters responsible for the long-term activities into any new business recommendations to the Board Group and receiving regular employees in the business.
Committee, Susan Ball, is also a considered by the Committee or geographic areas, or to success of the Company.
The on remuneration policy for the Responsibility and reports on M&A, legal, regulatory member the Committee.
during 2018 are set out below: cease any material operations Board provides entrepreneurial Chairman, Executive Directors The Board has delegated certain and investor relations matters at delegation leadership for the Company and senior management.
Changes in the Companys of its responsibilities to a number In addition, PwC LLP, in their Monitor the regulatory position the Board meetings, the other key within a framework of prudent and The Chairman is primarily capital structure or of Committees of the Board capacity as providers of in a number of jurisdictions matters considered by the Board The Directors Remuneration responsible for the efficient effective controls that enable risk management and to assist in the discharge of its co-sourced internal audit services, including those which are of Report is set out on pages 97 during 2018 are set out in the to be assessed and managed.
The principal Committees and members of the Groups relative importance to the table on page 89. to 111 and contains details of ensures that all Directors The Board sets the Companys currently are the Audit Committee, senior management including the Group financially and those Approval of the Annual the Remuneration Committees receive sufficient relevant strategic aims, and ensures that Board meetings are generally the Remuneration Committee, the Chief Security Officer, the Chief where changes may represent Report and Accounts, membership, activities during information on financial, business the necessary resources are held at the registered office Risk & Compliance Committee Executive Officer, Chief Financial a risk or opportunity for preliminary and half-yearly the year and the policy on and corporate issues prior to in place for the Company to of the Company on the Isle of and the Nominations Committee.
Officer and Chief Operating the Group financial statements, interim remuneration.
The Chief Executive meet its objectives and reviews Man, although during the year The minutes of each of these Officer may be invited to attend management statements the Remuneration Committee Consider the costs and Officers responsibilities focus on management performance.
a meeting was held in Milan.
Committees are circulated to and meetings to present matters or and announcements regulatory requirements attends the Annual General coordinating the Groups business reviewed by their members.
The for the Committee to have the The Board meets regularly and regarding dividends Meeting to respond to any for the Group to seek Directors are provided with and implementing Group strategy.
Company Secretary is secretary benefit of their experience.
relevant licences in newly frequently, with 12 meetings questions that shareholders comprehensive background Approval of treasury policies, Regular interaction between the to each of these Committees.
scheduled and held in 2018. might raise on the Remuneration regulating markets information for each meeting The primary responsibilities Chairman and Chief Executive including foreign currency The terms of reference for each During the year, it was also Committees activities.
and all Directors were exposures and use of delegated to, and discharged by, Applications by or on Officer between meetings of the Committees are available necessary for the Board to hold available to participate fully the Committee include: ensures the Board remains fully financial derivatives behalf of the Group for to view on the Companys The Remuneration Committee three unscheduled Board calls and on an informed basis in licences in existing or informed of developments in the Ensuring the maintenance website www.
comprises Ian Penrose Review managements all in accordance with the articles Board decisions.
In addition, business at all times.
newly regulated markets of a sound system of internal Chairman, Alan Jackson, identification and mitigation of association, in connection with certain members of the senior control and risk management Audit Committee Monitor developments in Andrew Thomas, Claire Milne of key risks to the achievement the trading update announced There remains in place a formal management team including relation to changes in the and Susan Ball.
Entering into agreements of the Companys objectives schedule of matters specifically The Audit Committees key in July 2018 and the Israeli tax the Chief Operating Officer, the regulatory regimes in all that are not in the ordinary objectives are the provision of settlement in December 2018. reserved for Board consideration General Counsel, the Head of Monitor incidents and jurisdictions in which the Group Risk & Compliance course of business or material and approval, which includes the effective governance over the remedial activity Regulatory and Compliance and operates and receiving reports During the year, the Chairman Committee strategically or by reason appropriateness of the Groups matters set out below: the Head of Investor Relations Agree and monitor the risk in relation to the likely impact met the other Non-executive of their size financial reporting, including the Under the Code, the Board is are invited to attend the whole or assessment programme Approval of the Groups on the Group and the need Directors, in the absence of the adequacy of related disclosures, responsible for determining parts of the meetings to deliver Changes to the size, including, in particular, changes long-term objectives and for entities within the Group Executive Directors, to re-confirm the performance of both the the nature and extent of the composition or structure of the their reports on the business.
to the regulation of online commercial strategy to apply for licences and take account of their views.
internal and external audit significant risks it is willing to Any specific actions arising Board and its Committees gambling and the assessment All Non-executive Directors Approval of the annual Consider the overall function, and the management of take in achieving its strategic during meetings are agreed by Corporate governance matters of licensees suitability have sufficient time to fulfil their operating and capital the Groups systems of internal objectives.
Through its role in effectiveness of the compliance the Board and a comprehensive commitments to the Company.
Agree on behalf of the expenditure budgets strategy and the regulatory control, business risks and related monitoring the ongoing risks follow-up procedure ensures Board and continually review and any changes to them compliance activities.
across the business, to include risks to the Groups operations their completion.
a risk management strategy and revenues the Group Risk Register, the The Audit Committees report is and relevant policies for the Committee advises the Board Receive and consider reports set out on pages 94 to 96 and Group, including the employee on current and future risk on discussions with, and the details the Audit Committees code of conduct, anti-bribery strategies.
The Board should results of, audits by regulators Number of meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Risk membership, activities during policy, anti-money laundering maintain a sound system of risk the year, significant issues Monitor compliance with policy and wider social management and internal control Alan Jackson 11 of 12 7 of 7 2 of 2 4 of 4 regulatory licences held in that it considered in relation responsibility issues systems Main Principle C. 2. to the financial statements all jurisdictions and adapting Mor Weizer 11 of 12 Satisfy itself and report to procedures, products and and how those issues were The Risk & Compliance the Board that the structures, addressed.
The report also technology as appropriate Committee is chaired by Claire Andrew Smith 11 of 12 processes and responsibilities contains an explanation of how Milne.
The other members of Review reports by PwC as for identifying and managing the Committee assessed the the Committee are Alan Jackson Claire Milne 11 of 12 4 of 4 7 of 7 2 of 2 4 of 4 external advisers on risk risks are adequate effectiveness of the external audit Non-executive Chairman, management: consideration Monitor and procure ongoing process and the approach taken John Jackson 11 of 12 4 of 4 7 of 7 2 of 2 4 of 4 Andrew Thomas Non-executive of the risks identified from the compliance with the conditions in relation to the appointment or Director, John Jackson NonGroups risk register and of the of the regulatory licences held Andrew Thomas 11 of 12 4 of 4 7 of 7 2 of 2 4 of 4 reappointment of the auditors.
executive Director, Susan Ball effectiveness of actions taken by the Group Non-executive Director and Ian to mitigate such risks The Audit Committee comprises Paul Hewitt 5 of 12 2 of 4 5 of 7 1 of 2 2 of 4 Penrose Non-executive Director.
Susan Ball Chairman, Andrew Consideration of the key Ian Ince Head of Regulatory and Thomas, John Jackson, Claire risks associated with the Susan Ball 5 of 12 2 of 4 2 of 7 1 of 2 2 of 4 Compliance, Alex Latner General Milne and Ian Penrose.
financials division Counsel, Steffen Latussek Data Ian Penrose 4 of 12 1 of 4 2 of 7 2 of 4 Monitoring the GDPR Protection Officer and Robert programme across Penfold Head of Internal Audit Note: the Group Paul Hewitt ceased to be a Director on 1 August 2018.
Susan Ball was appointed as a Director on 1 August 2018. attend the Committee.
The Ian Penrose was appointed as a Director on 1 September 2018.
Company Secretary, Brian Moore, Implementing compliance is secretary to the Committee.
training for Board members and senior management 92 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORT cont.
The Committee has been kept The Nominations Committee An independent external review potential shareholders are also The Head of IR provides regular Disclosure Committee Board tenure Balance of the Board informed of any changes to reviews the structure, size and of the Boards effectiveness held by the Head of Investor reports to the Board on related The Disclosure Committee In accordance with the The Board comprises individuals the regulatory position in any composition of the Board and commenced in late 2018.
This Relations and the Director matters, issues of concern to ensures accuracy and timeliness Companys articles of association, with wide business experience significant jurisdiction where the its Committees and makes review was carried out by of Corporate Affairs and in investors, and analysts views of public announcements of every new Director appointed in gained in various industry sectors Group, through its licensees, recommendations with regard Independent Audit Limited, using conjunction with either the and opinions.
the Company and monitors the the year is required to stand for related to the Groups current and financials division, may to any changes considered their Thinking Board online Chief Executive Officer or the Companys obligations under re-election by shareholders at the business and it is the intention Whenever required, the be exposed and updated on necessary in the identification assessment service.
The the Listing Rules and Disclosure Annual General Meeting AGM of the Board to ensure that the Executive Directors and the progress in relation to agreed and nomination of new Directors, Audit Limited have no other Company held an Investor Day Guidance and Transparency Rules following their appointment.
Also, balance of the Directors reflects the Chairman communicate with action items on a regular basis.
the reappointment of existing connection to the Company and in November 2018. of the FCA.
Meetings are held under the articles of association, changing needs of the business.
our joint brokers, Goodbody The Committee can also convene Directors and appointment are considered by the Board to as required.
At the date of this at each AGM one-third of the The Company endeavours to and UBS, to confirm shareholder meetings on a more frequent of members to the Boards The Board considers that it is of be independent.
The Company report the Disclosure Committee Directors excluding any Director answer all queries raised by sentiment and to consult on a size and has the balance of basis or as or when matters arise, Committees.
It also assesses Secretary is in the process of comprises Susan Ball Chairman who has been appointed by the shareholders promptly.
if it is determined that enhanced the roles of the existing Directors skills, knowledge, experience and finalising this review, following of the Audit Committee, Andrew Board since the previous AGM or, independence that is appropriate monitoring of a specific risk in office to ensure that there which, the Board members will Brickington Trading Limited During 2018, 49 regulatory Smith Chief Financial Officer, if their number is not an integral is warranted.
continues to be a balanced Board for the Groups current business.
discuss the findings and will Brickington, a wholly owned announcements were Alex Latner General Counsel and multiple of three, the number While not having a specific policy in terms of skills, knowledge, continue to adopt and implement subsidiary of a trust, the ultimate released informing the market Brian Moore Company Secretary.
nearest to one-third but not A table setting out the principal experience and diversity.
The regarding the constitution and plans to further develop the beneficiary of which is Tedi Sagi, of acquisitions, corporate exceeding one-third, shall retire significant risks identified by balance of the Board, potential Nominations Committee reviews effectiveness of the Board one of the Groups founders, actions, important customer Management Committee from office but so that if there the Group including with the the senior leadership needs of new Directors are considered during 2019. had a 6.3% shareholding at the contracts, financial results, are fewer than three Directors oversight and input of the Risk The senior management on their own merits with regard the Group to enable it to compete beginning of 2018.
During the the results of Annual General who are subject to retirement by & Compliance Committee and Newly appointed Directors can committee is the key effectively in the marketplace.
to their skills, knowledge, year, Brickington sold its holdings Meetings, the results of General rotation under the articles one the mitigating actions that have management committee for the expect a detailed and systematic experience and credentials.
The Nominations Committee and is no longer a shareholder of Meetings and Board changes.
been undertaken by the Group induction on joining the Board.
The standing members also advises the Board on the Company.
Copies of these announcements, in relation to these is set out on of the Committee are Mor The Non-executive Directors They meet various members Notwithstanding the provisions succession planning for Executive together with other IR information pages 68 to 71 of this report.
continue to contribute their of senior management and Weizer Chief Executive Officer, As a result of Brickington no Director appointments although of the articles of association, the and documents, are available Andrew Smith Chief Financial considerable collective familiarise themselves with all longer holding shares in the the Board itself is responsible for Board has decided to comply on the Group website Nominations Committee experience and wide-ranging core aspects of the Groups Officer, Shimon Akad Chief Company, the agreement entered succession generally.
with the Code requirements www.
Operating Officer, Uri Levy skills to the Board and provide operations.
On request, meetings into by Mr Sagi with the Company The Board is required by the that Directors of companies The Nominations Committee has a valuable independent can be arranged with major VP Business Development, in 2012 pursuant to which he Code to establish a Nominations in the FTSE 250 Index submit Summary not set itself any formal targets Jeremy Schlachter VP Finance perspective: where necessary shareholders.
Members of senior provided, as and when requested Committee which should lead the themselves for re-election In presenting this report, and for diversity, including gender, constructively challenging management are invited to attend and Brian Moore Company to do so by the Board, advisory process for Board appointments annually.
Therefore, apart from having monitored, reviewed and believes that appointments Secretary.
Other members of proposals, policy and practices Board meetings from time to time services to the Company for a and make recommendations Andrew Thomas, who has or approved all shareholder should be based on merit, of executive management.
In to present on specific areas of the senior management are invited nominal fee of 1 per annum for appointments to the Board.
informed the Board that he does communications in 2018 and compared against objective to the Committee as and when addition, they help formulate Groups business.
was automatically terminated A majority of members of the not intend to seek re-election at since the end of the financial criteria, with the ultimate aim of the Groups strategy.
Nominations Committee should the forthcoming AGM, all Directors year, the Board is confident that Relationship with ensuring the Board has the right considers and discusses plans be independent Non-executive are seeking their reappointment Shareholders are encouraged it has presented a balanced and skills, knowledge and experience Evaluation shareholders and recommendations coming Directors.
The Nominations at this years AGM.
to participate in the Companys understandable assessment that enable it to discharge its from the operational side of Committees key objective is to The Board is committed to an Primary responsibility for AGM, at which the Chairman will of the Companys position responsibilities properly.
The Board has collectively agreed the business and from the ongoing evaluation process ensure that the Board comprises effective communication with present the key highlights of and prospects.
that the Directors proposed for revarious product verticals, in individuals with the necessary of itself and its Committees to shareholders lies with the The Nominations Committee the Groups performance.
election at this years AGM have the light the Groups strategy assess their performance and skills, knowledge and experience Chairman, but all the Companys meets on an as-needed basis.
The Board will be available made significant contributions to and capital expenditure and to ensure that it is effective in identify areas in which their Directors are available to meet Two formal meetings were held in at the AGM to answer questions the business since their last reinvestment budgets, including effectiveness, policies and discharging its responsibilities.
The meetings focused on from shareholders.
election and each has a key role the implications of those plans in processes might be enhanced.
Alan Jackson, Mor Weizer, the consideration of candidates Alan Jackson The Nominations Committee to play in the formulation of the areas such as resources, budget, Alan Jackson, in discussion Andrew Smith, John Jackson, for the appointment of NonInvestor relations and Chairman comprises Alan Jackson Groups future strategy.
The with the Senior Non-executive Susan Ball and Ian Penrose met executive Directors.
This led, after communications Chairman, Andrew Thomas, Committee either approves the Director, undertook a review of with a number of shareholders 20 February 2019 a process involving the review of In certain circumstances, Directors John Jackson, Claire Milne, plans or as necessary refers the The Company has wellthe performance of individual to discuss the Companys a number of potential candidates, are entitled to seek independent Susan Ball and Ian Penrose.
proposal for formal Board review established Investor Relations Directors.
Andrew Thomas as business and remuneration to the appointment of Susan Ball professional advice under an and approval in accordance with IR processes, which support Senior Non-executive Director strategies throughout the year.
in August 2018 and Ian Penrose agreed Board procedure, which the Companys formal matters a structured programme of considered the performance of Mr The Executive Directors prepare a in September 2018.
No external would then be organised by the reserved for the Board.
communications with existing and Jackson taking into account the general presentation for analysts search consultancy was used in Company Secretary, and in this potential investors and analysts.
views of the Executive Directors.
and institutional shareholders these appointments: however, a regard the Company would meet Executive Directors and members There were no material areas following the interim and full-year list of candidates from a range their reasonable legal expenses.
of the IR team participated in of concern highlighted and the announcements.
Details of these of backgrounds was prepared.
a number of investor events, main outcome of the evaluation presentations together with the The Nominations Committee attending industry conferences this year was to shape and define Groups financial statements and went on to recommend Susan and regularly meet or are in the Boards objectives for the other announcements can be Balls and Ian Penroses contact with existing and potential coming year, continuing the focus found on the investor relations appointments as Non-executive institutional investors from around on Group strategy and ensuring section of the Companys Directors, having considered the world, ensuring that Group the structures, capabilities and website.
Further presentations in detail their skills, knowledge, performance and strategy is reporting are in place to achieve are also prepared following experience and ability to effectively communicated, within the Boards goals.
significant acquisitions, as in the contribute to the business.
Other case of Snaitech, and whenever representatives of the Board the Board considers it beneficial and senior management meet to shareholders to do so.
Regular with investors from time to time.
