86 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 BOARD OF DIRECTORS ENGAGEMENT & OVERSIGHT Alan Jackson Mor Weizer Andrew Smith Andrew Thomas John Jackson Claire Milne Susan Ball Ian Penrose Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Alan was appointed to the Board in Mor was appointed as Playtechs Chief Andrew was appointed as Playtechs Andrew was appointed to the John was appointed to the Board Claire was appointed to the Board Susan was appointed to the Board Ian was appointed to the Board 2006 on the Companys flotation on Executive Officer in May 2007.
Chief Financial Officer on 10 January Board in June 2012, shortly in January 2016. in July 2016. in August 2018. in September 2018. the Alternative Investment Market and 2017, having joined the Group in 2015. before the Companys admission Career: Career: Career: Career: Career: became Chairman in October 2013. to the Main Market.
Prior to being appointed CEO, Mor Career: John is a qualified accountant and Claire has a masters degree from The Susan is a Chartered Accountant Prior to his appointment, Ian was Career: was the Chief Executive Officer of Having qualified as a solicitor with Career: his previous roles include Group Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, and her previous roles include being CEO of Sportech plc from 2005 to Alan has over 40 years experience in one of the Groups subsidiaries, Ashurst in 2001, Andrew moved into Andrew has enjoyed a career as an Chief Executive of Jamie Oliver is a member of The Law Society of a Non-executive Director at Kambi 2017 and served as CEO of Arena the leisure industry.
From 1973 to 1991, Techplay Marketing Ltd. which investment banking, first with ABN accountant and businessman, much Holdings Limited from 2007 to 2015, Scotland, a Manx Advocate and a Group plc from 2014 until June 2018 Leisure plc from 2001 to 2005.
Ian he occupied a number of positions required him to oversee the Groups AMRO and then with Deutsche Bank, of which has been within the leisure Group Retail and Leisure Director Writer to Her Majestys Signet.
She is and CFO for Unibet Group plc from is currently Non-executive Chairman at Whitbread, both in the UK and licensee relationship management, specialising in both the Technology industry.
Andrew is currently Chairman of Virgin Group Limited from 1998 a member of the Institute of Directors, 2002 to 2007.
She is currently a of the National Football Museum and internationally, principally as Managing product management for new and Leisure sectors.
Andrew joined of Randalls Limited, a family-owned to 2007, and Managing Director of the Licensing Executive Society Non-executive Director at Gambling.
a strategic adviser to Alizeti Capital Director of Beefeater Steak Houses licensees and the Groups marketing Playtech in 2015 as Head of Investor pub company in Jersey, where he Body Shop International from 1988 and the Society for Computers and com Group plc.
Outside the gambling and Weatherbys Limited.
and also the Whitbread restaurant activities.
Andrew previously served as to 1994.
He is currently Non-executive the Law, a General Member of the sector, Susan is a Non-executive Skills, competences and experience: division where he was responsible Mor worked for Oracle for over four Chairman of The Greenalls Group Chairman of Wilko Holdings Limited, International Masters of Gaming Law Director of Bannatyne Group plc.
Skills, competences and experience: Ian brings over 20 years of leadership for the creation and development years, initially as a development plc and as a Non-executive Director Non-executive Chairman of Game and was Chair of the Isle of Man She is a fellow of the ICAEW.
Andrew brings a wealth of financial, experience in the global gaming, of the Beefeater, Travel Inn and TGI consultant and then as a product of a number of private and public Digital Limited and Non-executive Gambling Supervision Commission capital markets and M&A experience Skills, competences and experience: technology and leisure sectors.
Friday brands and was responsible for manager, which involved creating companies.
He is the founding partner Chairman of Rick Stein Group.
She is currently a to the Board and has been integral to With over 35 years of senior finance In particular, he has significant Whitbreads international restaurant sales and consulting channels on of the Cheshire-based accounting Partner and Team Leader within the Playtechs operational and strategic Skills, competences and experience: and board-level experience in listed knowledge of the US gambling development.
In 1991, he founded behalf of Oracle Israel and Oracle firm, Moors Andrew Thomas & Co. LLP.
Intellectual Property and Science & progress since joining the business.
John brings a wealth of consumer and private companies across several market, having led strategic initiatives Inn Business Group plc, which was Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Andrew is a member of the Institute of Technology teams for Appleby in Andrew was key to the acquisition industry experience combined with geographies and sectors, Susan in the region over nearly a decade.
acquired by Punch Taverns plc in 1999.
Earlier in his career, he worked in Chartered Accountants in England & the Isle of Man.
of Snaitech in 2018, including the a strong accountancy and financial brings a wealth of knowledge of the Ian has been licensed by regulators He was Chairman of The Restaurant a variety of roles, including as an Wales and a member of the Institute financing and refinancing of the background.
Skills, competences and experience: global gambling market with a focus in several countries, and is also a Group plc from 2001 until he retired auditor and financial consultant of Taxation.
Claire is a recognised industry expert on digital growth strategies and Chartered Accountant.
He stepped for  Board Committees: Skills, competences and experience: in eGaming and technology law expanding businesses.
down from his role as Deputy and a system analyst for Tadiran Board Committees: John stepped down as a member Board Committees: Andrew combines many years and regulation, with over 20 years Chairman and Senior Non-executive Electronic Systems Limited, an Andrew sits on the Management of the Remuneration Committee in Board Committees: Ian is Chair of the Remuneration detailed experience of advising experience advising gaming and Director at Redrow plc in September Israeli company that designs Committee and attends meetings November 2018.
He continues to Susan is Chair of the Audit Committee and sits on the Audit on taxation matters, with financial financial services clients as an in- 2014.
He is currently non-executive electronic warfare systems.
of the Audit Committee and the sit on the Audit Committee, Risk Committee and sits on the Committee, Risk & Compliance expertise both as a Chartered house and private practice lawyer.
Chairman of Bannatyne Group plc.
Risk & Compliance Committee at & Compliance Committee and Remuneration Committee, Risk Committee and the Nominations Skills, competences and experience: Accountant and sitting as a Nonthe invitation of the Chairs of those Nominations Committee.
Board Committees: & Compliance Committee and Committee.
Skills, competences and experience: Mor is a qualified accountant and executive Director of a number of Claire is Chair of the Risk & Committees.
Having held several Board brings considerable international publicly listed companies.
Compliance Committee and sits positions in both an executive sales and management experience Board Committees: on the Remuneration Committee, and non-executive capacity in a in a hi-tech environment and Andrew stepped down as Chair Audit Committee and Nominations variety of listed companies in the extensive knowledge of the of the Audit Committee in November Committee.
UK, he brings substantial experience online gambling industry.
He remains a member of of working in public and private Board Committees: the Audit Committee and sits on companies, along with strategic He chairs the Management Committee the Remuneration Committee, and leadership experience.
and attends the Remuneration, Risk Nominations Committee and Board Committees: & Compliance and Nominations Risk & Compliance Committee.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committees at the invitation of the He is also the Senior Independent Committee and a member of Chairs of those Committees.
the Remuneration and Risk & Compliance Committees.
