Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 69 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Significant Reporting Matters Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report The Board has asked the Committee to confirm that in its opinion the Annual Report as a whole can be taken as fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys financial position, performance, business model and strategy.
In doing so the Committee has INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIR given consideration to: I am pleased to present, as Chair of the Audit the comprehensive control framework around the Committee, what is my third annual report to production of the Annual Report, including the shareholders for the year ended 30 April 2018. verification processes in place to deal with the Committee Composition factual content: The Committee comprises all of the independent extensive levels of review are undertaken in the Non-executive Directors: the Chair of the Board attends production process, by the Investment Manager Committee meetings as an observer by invitation.
and the Committee: and The Audit Committee, as a whole, has competence the internal control environment as operated by the relevant to the sector in which the Company Investment Manager and other suppliers including operates.
Committee members have a range of any checks and balances within those systems.
financial, investment and other relevant sector As a result of the work performed, the Committee has experience including fund management in both equity concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended and venture capital funds.
The requirement for at 30 April 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and least one member of the Committee to have recent understandable and provides the information and relevant financial experience is satisfied by both necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys Stephen White and myself being Chartered performance, business model and strategy, and it has Accountants and we both currently chair Audit reported on these findings to the Board.
Committees for other public companies.
Valuation of Investments More information about the Committee members During the year the Committee reviewed the can be found on pages 52 and 53. robustness of the Investment Managers processes The Committee met four times during the financial in place for recording investment transactions as well year with all members attending each meeting.
as ensuring the valuation of assets is carried out in accordance with the adopted accounting policies and Committee Role and Responsibilities as laid out in note 2 f. The Committee has written terms of reference, which are available to view on the website, Existence and Ownership of Investments www.
The terms of During the year the Committee received reassuring reference clearly define the Committees responsibilities quarterly reports from the Depository on its work and duties.
In addition to the terms of reference, the and safe keeping of the Companys investments.
Committee has developed an annual agenda which corresponds with the meeting schedule, to ensure all key responsibilities are completed and managed.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 70 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Prior to the year under review,  Other Reporting Matters LLP provided services to the Company as tax agents in Accounting Policies Taiwan and for the iXBRL tagging of the Companys During the year the Committee ensured that the accounts for submission to HM Revenue and Customs.
accounting policies as set out on pages 88 to 93 were These services for the year under review have been applied consistently throughout the year.
In light of provided by Grant Thornton LLP and Arrk Solutions, there being no unusual transactions during the year respectively.
or other possible reasons, there were no changes to currently adopted policies.
Internal Audit The Committee considered the need for an internal Going Concern audit function however, as an investment trust, it is not The Audit Committee, at the request of the Board, deemed necessary as the accounting, administration considered the ability of the Company to adopt the Going and other operational services are all outsourced and Concern basis for the preparation of the Financial provided to the Company by third-party providers.
Having reviewed the Companys financial position, the Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate Interim Report and Financial Statements for the Board to prepare the financial statements for the The Committee considered and reviewed the Interim year ended 30 April 2018 on a going concern basis.
See Report and Financial Statements, which are not page 48 for further details.
audited or reviewed by the external Auditors, to ensure that they reflected the accounting policies Viability Statement used in the annual Financial Statements.
The Committee considered the longer-term viability requirements, so the Board may state that it has a Internal Controls and Risk Management reasonable expectation that the Company will be able The Board has ultimate responsibility for the to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they management of risk throughout the Company and has fall due over the period of their assessment.
asked the Audit Committee to assist in maintaining an effective Internal Control environment.
The assessments took account of the Companys current financial position, its cash flows and its The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board has a risk liquidity position and the principal risks as set out on management process which is used throughout the pages 43 to 45 and the Committees assessment of year to monitor the Companys risks and controls.
any material uncertainties and events that might As part of the year end process the Audit Committee cast significant doubt upon the Companys ability undertook a review of the effectiveness of the system to continue as a going concern.
The Committee of internal controls taking into account any issues that recommended to the Board that the Companys had arisen during the course of the year.
longer-term prospects to continue its operations and meet its expenses and liabilities as they fall due over The Committee acknowledges that the Company is the next five years to 30 April 2023 are reasonable.
reliant on the systems utilised by external suppliers.
See pages 46 and 47 for further details.
Hence representatives of the Investment Manager reported to the Committee on the internal controls Taxation operated by the Investment Manager and the committee The Board ensured that the Company was compliant also received internal control reports from other with section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 key suppliers on the quality and effectiveness of the throughout the year, by seeking and receiving services provided to the Company.
During the year confirmation that the Company continues to meet the the Committee placed special attention on the cyber eligibility conditions.
security policies and processes put in place by such suppliers.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 71 The Audit Committee uses a Risk Map which seeks to External Auditor identify, monitor and control principal risks as far as Appointment and Tenure possible.
Over the year the Audit Committee has Following the formal competitive tender process in 2016, undertaken a review of the entire Risk Map to identify the Committee agreed to appoint KPMG LLP KPMG and the principal risks facing the business and reviewed the appointment was subsequently confirmed by each risk as to its likelihood and impact.
The Resolution of the Shareholders at the AGM held on Committee also robustly considered the mitigating 7September 2017.
At the time of appointment, a twofactors and controls to reduce the impact of such risks year fixed audit fee was agreed.
Mr John Waterson is as described on pages 42 to 45.
As well as the annual the Audit Partner allocated to the Company by KPMG.
review the Audit Committee has maintained an active Mr Waterson has met with the Board several times prior process throughout the year to monitor these risks to and during the audit process.
and controls in order to provide assurance that they operate as intended and that the Risk Map reflects In accordance with the current legislation, the developing and new risks.
Company is required to instigate a tender process for Auditors at least every 10 years and will have to There were no issues which arose during the course change its auditor after a maximum of 20 years.
In of the year ended 30 April 2018 and up to the date of addition, the nominated Audit Partner will be required this report which were considered significant.
to rotate after serving a maximum of 5 years with the Company: it is therefore anticipated that Mr Waterson The Audit Committee will actively continue to monitor will serve as Audit Partner until completion of the the system of internal controls through the regular audit process in 2022.
The Company has complied review of the Risk Map and the internal control throughout the year ended 30 April 2018 with the environment.
provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, The Audit Committee has noted that the Investment issued by the Competition and Markets Authority Manager has policies on whistleblowing policy, CMA Order.
antibribery policy and the Modern Slavery Act and has The re-appointment of KPMG as Auditors to the controls and monitoring to implement their policy Company will be submitted for Shareholder approval, across the main contractors which supply goods and together with a separate Resolution to authorise the services to the Investment Manager and the Company.
Directors to reconfirm the remuneration of the The Company has adopted an anti-corruption policy Auditors, at the AGM to be held on 6 September 2018. which incorporates Anti-Bribery, Anti-Slavery and the Criminal Corporate Offence of Tax Evasion.
In addition There are no contractual obligations restricting the to this the Company has issued a data privacy notice in choice of external Auditors.
relation to the General Data Protection Regulations.
All such policies can be found on the Companys The Audit website www.
The scope of the annual audit was agreed in advance with the Committee with a focus on areas of audit risk The Audit Committee has also considered the policy and the appropriate level of audit materiality.
The and controls used by the Investment Manager Auditors reported to the Audit Committee on the surrounding the use of brokerage commissions results of the audit work and highlighted any issue generated from transactions in the Companys which the audit work had discovered, or the portfolio.
Committee had previously identified as significant or material in the context of the Financial Statements.
There were no adverse matters brought to the Audit Committees attention in respect of the 2018 audit, which were material or significant or which should be brought to Shareholders attention.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 72 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Effectiveness Non-Audit Services The Audit Committee monitored and evaluated the The Audit Committees policy on the provision of effectiveness of the Auditors under the terms of non-audit services by the Auditors is available on the their appointment based on an assessment of their Companys website www.
performance, qualification, knowledge, expertise and co. uk.
The policy is produced in line with the FRC resources.
The Audit Committee felt that Mr Waterson ethical standards and any non-audit services are and his audit team have provided a fresh perspective required to be pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
to and an in-depth review of the audit process which has been welcomed by the Committee and the Board.
KPMG were appointed to undertake their first annual audit for the year ended 30 April 2018 and have not The Auditors effectiveness was also considered along provided any non-audit services to the Company in with other factors such as audit planning and the year under review, or in the previous two years.
This In 2017, PWC, the then auditor, provided non-audit evaluation has been carried out throughout the year services amounting to 5,000, equivalent to 15% of by meetings held with the Auditors, by review of the their audit fee of 34,000. audit process and by comments from the Investment Manager and others involved in the audit process.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE COMMITTEE The Company, as a member of the FTSE350, is The Auditors were provided with an opportunity to required to engage in an external Board evaluation at address the Committee without the Investment least every three years.
Such an external evaluation Manager present to raise any concerns or discuss any was last carried out in 2016 by Lintstock, an matters relating to the audit work and the cooperation independent third-party specialising in board of the Investment Manager and others in providing any evaluation.
The evaluation process in 2017 and 2018 information and the quality of that information were internal processes moderated by the Chair and including the timeliness in responding to audit Senior Independent Director with the assistance of the requests.
No concerns were raised by the Auditors Company Secretary.
Both the external and internal or the Audit Committee in relation to the service processes included a review of the work undertaken provided by the Investment Manager or any other by the Audit Committee.
I am delighted to confirm third-party service provider.
that the findings of both the external and internal Independence evaluation processes were positive in all aspects In order to fulfil the Committees responsibility and the Audit Committee was highly rated.
regarding independence of the Auditor, the Committee reviewed the senior staffing of the audit, the Auditors Charlotta Ginman, FCA arrangements concerning any conflicts of interest, Chair of the Audit Committee the extent of any non-audit services, the Auditors independence statement and any other issues that 17 July 2018 may affect the Auditors independence.
Fees As part of the year end audit, the Committee considered and re-confirmed the level of fees preagreed and payable to the Auditors bearing in mind the nature of the audit and the quality of services received.
The annual audit fee for the year was 24,500 2017:34,000.
