Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 59 REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The following diagram demonstrates the governance framework within which the Company is managed.
The Directors are ultimately accountable to shareholders for the Companys affairs and are therefore responsible for the good governance of Company.
The Company has no employees and relies on third parties to administer the Company and to provide investment management services.
Shareholders Board of Directors Investment Manager Third Party Service AIFM Providers Management Engagement Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chair: Charlotta Ginman Chair: Sarah Bates Chair: Sarah Bates Chairman: Peter Hames Members: all independent Members: all independent Members: all independent Members: all independent NEDs with the exception of NEDs NEDs NEDs the Chair of the Board The FRC has confirmed that by following the AIC Code REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and the AIC Guide, boards of investment companies The UK Listing Rules require all listed companies to will meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code disclose how they have applied the principles and and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Financial Conduct Authority complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate FCA Listing Rules.
Governance Code the UK Code which was effective during the financial year, issued by the Financial A revised UK Code and AIC Code are expected to Reporting Council FRC.
The UK Code can be be published in mid 2018 and will be applicable viewed at www.
uk to accounting years commencing on or after 1 January 2019.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC publishes a Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code As an investment company, most of the day to day and a Corporate Governance Guide for Investment responsibilities are delegated to outside parties as the Companies AIC Guide.
In July 2016 the AIC published Company has no employees and all the Directors are a revised AIC Code and AIC Guide to reflect changes Non-executive.
Many of the provisions of the UK Code made to the UK Code in April 2016.
In line with the UK are not directly applicable to the Company and the Code, the revised AIC Code and AIC Guide apply to Board has determined that reporting against the AIC accounting years beginning on or after 17 June 2016.
Code provides the most appropriate information to shareholders.
The AIC Code and AIC Guide address the relevant principles set out in the UK Code as well as additional principles and recommendations on issues that are specific to investment trusts.
The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
co. uk Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 60 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED is Non-executive: Statement of Compliance and Application of the AIC Codes Principles as there are no executive Directors there is no need to comply with the UK Code in respect of executive The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board has directors remuneration: and considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as the Company does not have an internal audit explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles function as it relies on the systems of control set out in the UK Code, as well as setting out additional operated by the Investment Manager and other principles and recommendations on issues that are of third-party suppliers.
The Board monitors these specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers systems of internal control to provide assurance that for the year under review the Directors, Board and that they operate as intended insofar as they relate Company have complied with the recommendations of to the affairs of the Company.
the AIC Code in so far as they apply to the Companys The Board believes that the Companys current business.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, the practices are consistent in all material respects Board considers the following provisions are not with the principles of the AIC Code and where nonrelevant to an externally managed investment company compliance occurs, an explanation has been provided.
where all of the day-to-day management and The Board will continue to observe the principles and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties: recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
Where the as all Directors are Non-executive and day to Companys duties are delegated to third parties the day management has been contracted to third Company has agreed policies and operating parties the Company does not have a separate procedures with the suppliers of these services.
The Chair of the Board AIC Code Principle How the principles are applied 1 The Chairman should be Sarah Bates was appointed to the Board in 2011 and as Chair in 2017.
Chair was independent on appointment and continues to meet the criteria for independence.
The Board considers the competence and independence of the Directors on an annual basis.
The Chair is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Chair works with the Company Secretary for setting the Boards agenda and for balancing the issues presented to each meeting.
Open and frank debate is encouraged at each Board meeting and the Chair keeps in touch with the Company Secretary and other Directors between Board meetings.
2 A majority of the board The Board currently comprises seven Non-executive Directors.
Brian Ashfordshould be independent of Russell is connected to the Investment Manager and is not therefore considered the manager.
to be independent, all remaining Directors are considered to be fully independent in character and judgement and have no former connection with the Manager.
Consequently, the majority of the Board is independent of the Investment Manager and the Board considers that its overall composition is adequate for the effective governance of the Company.
All members of the Board appointed Committees are independent.
3 Directors should be The Articles of Association Articles govern the appointment, re-election submitted for re-election and removal of a director.
Directors are required to stand for election by at regular intervals.
shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment to the Board.
Where Nomination for re-election a director has served more than 9 years, or there is a regulatory requirement should not be assumed but to do so, such director will stand for re-election annually.
be based on disclosed The Board formally reviews the performance of the Directors each year procedures and continued and considers any recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
appropriate, the Board recommends to shareholders the re-election of those standing.
The Company is listed within the FTSE350: directors are therefore required under the UK Code to stand for re-election annually.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 61 AIC Code Principle How the principles are applied 4 The board should have a All directors are appointed for an initial period of three years and are subject policy on tenure, which is to re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Articles.
The Board disclosed in the annual recognises the value of progressive refreshing of and succession planning for report.
company boards which has been demonstrated by the changes in recent years.
The Board is however conscious of the need to maintain continuity and believes that retaining Directors with sufficient experience of the Company, industry and markets is of great benefit to Shareholders.
The Board is of the opinion that long service does not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of Investment Trusts where continuity and experience can significantly benefit a Board, a view supported by the AIC.
5 There should be full The biographies of the Directors are set out on pages 52 and 53. disclosure of information about the board.
6 The board should aim to Each Director has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may have a balance of skills, lead where issues arise.
The biographies on page 52 and 53 demonstrate a experience, length of breadth of experience across the investment and financial services sector and service and knowledge exposure to the technology sector.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate company secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
7 The board should Evaluation of the Board, individual Directors and the Committees is undertaken undertake a formal and annually.
An external agency is engaged at least every third year, the last rigorous annual evaluation external evaluation took place in 2016.
The evaluation of the Chair is led by the of its own performance and Senior Independent Director.
The evaluation outcomes are reviewed and that of its committees and reported on by the Board as a whole and, should it be deemed necessary, individual directors.
additional reporting measures or operations would be put in place.
8 Director remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report is provided on pages 73 to 76 and describes should reflect their duties, the processes undertaken when reviewing remuneration.
responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
9 The independent directors The Nomination Committee, which is made up of the independent directors, is should take the lead in the responsible for the composition of the Board and it considers not only the appointment of new existing Board but also if further appointments should be made.
The Nomination directors and the process Committee seeks to balance the time required, the skills, knowledge and should be disclosed in the experience of individual Directors to form an effective and efficient Board.
10 Directors should be When new Directors are appointed they are provided with key information of the offered relevant training Company and the regulatory environment, they are also offered an induction and induction.
session run by the Manager in conjunction with the Chair.
All Directors are asked to identify any training needs on an annual basis.
11 The Chairman and the In the event of a major change being proposed for the Company or a board should be brought restructuring, the whole Board would participate in discussion and actions into the process of and would take advice from third parties where appropriate.
structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 62 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AIC Code Principle How the principles are applied BOARD MEETINGS AND THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE MANAGER 12 Boards and managers The Board meets at least six times per year.
Representatives of the Manager should operate in a attend Board meetings in a variety of capacities including investment supportive, co-operative management, compliance, operations and marketing.
In addition, the Manager and open environment provides a Company Secretary who attends throughout the meetings and senior executives of the Manager join the Board on request.
The Board and Manager work in a collaborative, supportive and co-operative manner and the Chair encourages open discussion and debate.
13 The primary focus at The Board is provided with a full range of information on investment, financial, regular board meetings regulatory and administrative matters for review and discussion including should be a review of investment performance and attribution analysis at every meeting in addition investment performance to periodic marketing, sales and other reports and presentations.
and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
14 Boards should give The Board keeps the investment strategy under constant review along with sufficient attention to its relevance to the market and shareholders as a whole.
At least one Board overall strategy.
meeting per year is a dedicated investment strategy meeting.
During the strategy meeting the Board will receive presentations from a variety of members of the technology team and will consider requests from the investment manager where appropriate.
15 The board should regularly While it may be discussed at any time by the Board, the Management review both the Engagement Committee formally reviews the performance and activities of performance of, and the Investment Manager annually and considers the terms of the Investment contractual arrangements Management Agreement and contractual arrangements.
16 The board should agree The Board has delegated operational activities to the Manager under the terms policies with the manager of the Investment Management Agreement.
Clear investment guidelines are in covering key operational place which are reported against on a monthly basis.
operations of the Company including regulatory requirements, stewardship, reporting and governance are discussed with and reviewed by the Board from time to time.
The Board has put in place Company policies covering regulatory practice and matters such as GDPR and Anti-Corruption, such policies are available on the Companys website.
17 Boards should monitor the The NAV and share price along with the level of discount and or premium are level of the share price considered at every Board meeting and are monitored by the Investment discount or premium if Manager on a daily basis.
The Board has the authority to undertake share buy any and, if desirable, take backs or share issues.
18 The board should monitor The full schedule of service providers is reviewed by the Board at least annually: and evaluate other service the Audit Committee reviews the internal controls reports provided by third providers.
The Board and Manager carry out service review meetings and representatives of various providers present to the Board directly from time to time.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 63 AIC Code Principle How the principles are applied SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION 19 The board should regularly The Board receives a shareholder analysis at every Board meeting which is monitor the shareholder discussed with the Managers Head of Sales and the Corporate Broker.
The profile of the company and Chair and Directors are available and welcome meetings with institutional put in place a system for shareholders and invite all shareholders to attend the AGM to review the year canvassing shareholder past and the outlook for the future.
views and for communicating the boards views to shareholders.
20 The board should normally The Board, or where relevant a Committee of the Board, considers all material take responsibility for, and shareholder communications and is kept abreast of minor communications have a direct involvement managed by the Manager.
Marketing activity is undertaken by the Manager on in, the content of behalf of the Company.
Proposed activity is discussed with the Board before communications regarding implementation.
major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
21 The board should ensure The NAV of the Company is published daily via RNS to the London Stock that shareholders are Exchange.
The Manager maintains a website for the Company on which a provided with sufficient number of shareholder information documents are held including the Annual information for them to and Interim Financial Reports, portfolio listings, monthly fact sheets, regulatory understand the risk:reward and compliance policies and the newly required Key Information Document: the balance to which they are website also has a direct news feed from the London Stock Exchange to ensure exposed by holding the all Company announcements are easily accessible.
ROLE, RESPONSIBILITIES AND COMMITTEES THE BOARD The Board has a schedule of regular meetings through the year and meets at additional times as required.
During the year, Board and Board Committee meetings were held to deal with the ongoing stewardship of the Company and other matters including the setting and monitoring of investment strategy and performance, review of the financial statements and dealing with any shareholder issues including investor relations.
The Board spent considerable time in discussion with the Manager regarding the make-up of the shareholder register.
The Board concluded that continual diversification of the shareholder register is in shareholders interests and noted the increase in the percentage of the register held by execution only platforms.
The Board has discussed with the Manager an approach to improving communications with the shareholders and is content gently to encourage direct investors but is also cognisant of the risks of adversely affecting the Managers investment capacity and large cash flows at potentially elevated levels.
The Board was also responsible for considering, reviewing and implementing appropriate policies in respect of regulatory changes that impacted the Company.
The level of the ordinary share price discount or premium to the NAV together with policies for re-purchase or issuance of shares are kept under review along with matters affecting the industry and the evaluation of third party service providers.
A Strategy Board meeting is held each year where investment ideas are discussed.
Through this process the Board supervises the management of the investment portfolio, the work of the Investment Manager, the risks to which the Company is exposed and their mitigation, and the quality of services received by the Company.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 64 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board has been defined and a procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No such advice has been sought during the year.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
The number of formal meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the year ended 30 April 2018 and the attendance of individual Directors are shown below: Board & Management Strategy Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination 2017 AGM Number of Meetings 6 4 1 1 3 1 # Sarah Bates 6 4 1 1 3 1 Brian Ashford-Russell 6 - - - - 1 Tim Cruttenden 6 4 0 0 2 1 Charlotta Ginman 6 4 1 1 3 1 Peter Hames 6 4 1 1 3 1 Michael Moule 3 2 1 1 3 1 Charles Park 1 1 - - - - Stephen White 1 1 - - - - # Sarah Bates attends the Audit Committee by invitation Tim Cruttenden missed one Management Engagement Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee meeting due to a conflicting engagement.
These meetings were all on the same date.
Michael Moule retired from the Board at the AGM on 7 September 2017.
He attended the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation Charles Park and Stephen White were appointed to the Board and Committees on 15 January 2018 Directors Interests Conflicts of Interest Brian Ashford-Russell is a partner of Polar Capital LLP Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they and a Non-executive Director and Shareholder in Polar have or could have a conflict of interest or possible Capital Holdings plc, the ultimate holding company of conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Polar Capital LLP and as such he has an interest in Companys Articles contain provisions to permit the the investment management contract.
He is therefore Board to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts.
not considered to be an independent Director.
Brian The Board has always had in place policies to govern Ashford-Russell will retire from the Board at the situations where a potential conflict of interests may conclusion of the AGM on 6 September 2018. arise, for example where a Director is also a Director of a company in which the Company invests or may No Director, except Brian Ashford-Russell, has any invest.
Where a conflict situation arises, the conflicted links with the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP.
Directors are excluded from any discussions or There were no other contracts during or at the end of decisions relating to the matter of conflict.
the year in which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant Each Director has provided the Company with a in relation to the Companys business.
statement of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest, these have been approved by the The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Board and recorded in a register.
The Conflicts Company are set out on page 75 and in the Directors Register is reviewed at every Board meeting and the Remuneration Report.
Directors are reminded of their obligations to obtain authorisation for such.
No Director has declared receipt of any benefits other than their emoluments and associated expenses in their capacity as a Director of the Company.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 65 Except as disclosed above in relation to Brian AshfordReport of the Audit Committee Russells interest in the contract with Polar Capital Charlotta Ginman chairs the Audit Committee and LLP, there were no contracts subsisting during or at all the independent Non-executive Directors are the end of the year in which a Director is or was members with the exception of the Chair of the Board interested and which is or was significant in relation who may be invited to attend meetings as a guest.
The to the Companys business or to the Director since Audit Committee Report is set out on pages 69 to 72. its introduction.
Report of the Nomination Committee Directors Professional Development Sarah Bates, as Chair of the Board, chairs the When a new Director is appointed he or she is offered Nomination Committee and all the independent an induction course provided by the Investment Non-executive Directors are members.
Directors are welcome to visit the Committee meets at least annually and is responsible Investment Manager at any time to receive an update to the Board for the size and structure of the Board on any aspect of interest or a general refresher on the as well as for succession planning and the tenure operations of the Investment Manager.
Directors are policy for Directors.
also provided on a regular basis with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory When considering Board structure and composition obligations and internal controls.
Changes affecting the Committee seeks to ensure the candidates Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board considered will enhance the Board and replace or as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in refresh desired skill sets.
The Board has a policy to professional and industry seminars and may use the consider diversity and has worked hard to ensure online training modules of the Investment Manager the broadest range of candidates.
to ensure they maintain their knowledge.
Meetings and Work Undertaken During the financial year ended 30 April 2018 the Senior Independent Director Committee met three times and considered, in Mr Hames became the SID from the conclusion of the particular, the appointment of a new Director to fill the Annual General Meeting on 9 September 2016.
The SID skill set lost by the retirement of Michael Moule and leads on matters relating to the position, evaluation the forthcoming retirement of Brian Ashford-Russell.
and remuneration of the Chair and can be contacted via the Registered Office of the Company.
This covered: BOARD COMMITTEES Agreeing a specification and method of recruitment of new directors: The Board has created four standing committees whose terms of reference are available on the Incorporating the Boards views on diversity and Companys website.
The Board also creates ad hoc ensuring the continuation of a balance of skills, committees from time to time to enact or approve knowledge and experience on the Board: policies or actions agreed in principle by the whole Appointment of external agency, Nurole Limited, Board.
The Chair of each committee attends the AGM a recruitment consultant independent of the to deal with questions relating to the Financial Company, to advertise the position: Statements.
The Board has delegated to each of the Executing a short-list selection process from a Audit, Management Engagement, Remuneration long-list of candidates sourced by Nurole: and and Nomination Committees specific remits for consideration and recommendation but the final Carrying out interviews before making a final responsibility in these areas remains with the Board.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 66 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Nomination Committee was also tasked with and Report of the Remuneration Committee was responsible for carrying out the performance Peter Hames, as Senior Independent Director, chairs evaluation of each individual director and evaluation the Remuneration Committee and all the independent of the collective performance of the Board.
The Committee meets at least annually and is responsible to the Board This covered: for consideration and recommendations in relation to Reviewing the evaluation questionnaire completed directors remuneration.
In order to undertake such a by each Director: task consideration is given to peer investment trust companies remuneration levels, industry guidance and Recommending the re-election of each Director standards, the work undertaken by the Board in the based on the evaluation.
The Committee prior year and plans for the year ahead, changes in the acknowledges the rationale of the UK Corporate regulatory environment.
Remuneration levels are set Governance Code for the rigorous review of to attract the correct calibre of individual to the Board.
Directors serving over six years and annual reThe Chair is excluded from discussions in relation to appointment after nine years.
Nevertheless, the the remuneration level of the Chair.
Further details are Committee shares the view of the AIC that length of provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on service will not necessarily compromise the page 74. independence or contribution of Directors of investment trusts where continuity and experience Report of the Management Engagement can significantly strengthen a Board: Committee Confirming adherence with recommended practice The Management Engagement Committee is chaired of having an externally facilitated review every by the Chair of the Board, Sarah Bates, and comprises three years, in 2016 the Committee appointed all of the independent Non-executive Directors.
Lintstock to provide such a service.
The findings During the financial year ended 30 April 2018 the and recommendations of the review, which were Committee met once and considered the relationship generally favourable, were considered and shared with the Investment Manager, including the annual with the Board.
The Committee confirmed that the review of the services provided by the Investment evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Manager prior to making its recommendation to the individual Directors for 2017 and 2018 would be Board, on the retention of the Investment Manager carried out by the Chair of the Nomination being in the interests of Shareholders.
In the years when the internal system is also responsible for keeping under review the terms is used, the Chair uses a system that seeks the of the investment management agreement and the views of each Director by a questionnaire and Investment Managers appointment as AIFM, in subsequent individual interviews.
The Chairs connection with such the Committee considers the review is conducted by the Senior Independent level and structure of management and performance Director: and fee paid or payable to the Investment Manager.
The Board considered and concluded that the most SERVICE PROVIDER PERFORMANCE important things they could do to improve performance would be to EVALUATION PROCESS focus on key factors affecting shareholder value Investment Manager and to implement strategies accordingly: The Board has contractually delegated the focus on efficient intra-Board working management of the portfolio to the Investment relationships to leverage the diverse experience Manager.
It is the Investment Managers sole of Board members: responsibility to take decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments other than unquoted optimise the working practices with the investments where the Board is consulted.
The Investment Manager: and Investment Manager has responsibility for tactical improve the depth of knowledge of the gearing, asset allocation and sector selection within investment team and process to drive more the guidelines established and regularly reviewed by effective monitoring, challenge and critique.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 67 The Investment Manager is responsible for providing Accountability and Audit or procuring accountancy services, company The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect secretarial and administrative services.
The of the Financial Statements is set out on page 77 and Investment Manager also ensures that all Directors the Independent Auditors Report is on pages 78 to 81. receive in a timely manner all relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
Representatives INTERNAL CONTROLS of the Investment Manager attend all Board meetings The Board has overall responsibility for the enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of Companys system of internal control, for reviewing concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
its effectiveness and ensuring that risk management and control process are embedded in the day to day The whole Board reviews the performance of the operations which are operated or overseen by the Investment Manager and, at each Board meeting, the Investment Manager.
Companys performance against the market and a peer group of funds with similar investment objectives The Board through the Audit Committee has established is reviewed.
The investment team provided by the a process for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and Investment Manager, led by Ben Rogoff, has long reviewing, and managing any principle risks faced by the experience of investment in technology.
This is documented through the use of a Risk the Investment Manager has other investment Map which is subject to regular review by the Audit resources which support the investment team and Committee and accords with the Guidance on Risk experience in managing and administering other Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and investment trust companies Business Reporting issued in September 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council.
As the Company has no Alternative Performance Measures employees and its operational functions are carried out The Company uses a variety of performance by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it measures when monitoring the performance of necessary for the Company to establish its own internal the portfolio managed by the Investment Manager, audit function.
these measures are considered to be alternative performance measures under the ESMA guidelines Contracts with suppliers are entered into after full and and are described further on page 118. proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including the control Other Suppliers systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board also monitors directly or through the Investment Manager the performance of its other The Investment Manager has an internal control key service providers.
framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls The Board has directly appointed HSBC Bank Plc as operated on behalf of its clients.
The Investment Depositary and Stifel Nicolaus as Corporate Broker.
Manager is authorised and regulated by the Financial The Depositary reports quarterly and makes an Conduct Authority and its compliance department annual presentation to the Board.
The Corporate monitors compliance with the FCA rules.
Broker provides reports to each Board meeting and joins the Board on request to discuss markets and The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board other issues.
on the operation of the controls which are embedded The Registrars, Equiniti Limited, are directly within the business of the Investment Manager and appointed by the Board and their performance is other third-party suppliers.
Controls and risk monitored by the Company Secretary.
management covering the risks identified, including financial, operational, compliance, safeguarding of Other suppliers such as printers, website services assets, maintenance of proper accounting records and and PR agents are monitored by the Company the publication of reliable financial information are Secretary and each report to the Board as and monitored by a series of regular reports from the when deemed necessary.
Investment Manager including risks not directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 68 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED raise matters either in person or in writing.
The Operation of Internal Controls Chair and Directors may be contacted through the The process was active throughout the year and up to the registered office of the Company.
In 2017 18 the then date of approval of this Annual Report.
However, such a Chairman, Michael Moule, received one response to system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks this contact and no concerns were raised.
of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Shareholders are kept informed by the publication of assurance against material misstatement or loss.
annual and half year reports which include Financial Statements.
These reports are supplemented by the The Board, in assessing the effectiveness of the daily release of the NAV per share to the London Companys internal controls has, through the Audit Stock Exchange and the publication by the Investment Committee, received formal reports on the policies Manager of a monthly factsheet.
All this information and procedures in operation.
The reports also include together with the Investment Managers results of tests, with details of any known internal presentations is available from the Companys control failures from the Investment Manager for its website at www.
co. uk financial year ended 31 March 2018.
For the year under review, no material errors or control failures had been The Board is also keen that the AGM be a participative identified.
The Investment Manager has subsequently event for all Shareholders who attend.
The portfolio provided confirmation that there has been no material manager makes a presentation and Shareholders are change to the control environment up to the signing of encouraged to attend.
The Chairs of the Board and of these Financial Statements.
the Committees attend the AGM and are available to respond to queries and concerns from Shareholders.
The Board also considers reports provided by other The Directors make themselves available after the third-party suppliers and ad hoc reports from the AGM to meet Shareholders.
Investment Manager are supplied to the Board as required.
Where the vote is decided on a show of hands, the proxy votes received are relayed to the meeting and The Investment Manager has delegated the provision subsequently published on the Companys website.
of accounting, portfolio valuation and trade processing Proxy forms have a vote withheld option.
to HSBC Securities Services but remains responsible to the Company for these functions and provides the The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the AGM Board with information on these services.
together with the full text of any special resolutions.
The Board will engage with Shareholders on any Based on the work of the Audit Committee and the matters where significant dissent is shown at the AGM reviews of the reports received by the Audit and following the AGM acknowledge such dissent in its Committee on behalf of the Board, the Board has announcement of the results of the AGM and disclose concluded that there were no material control failures in the next Annual Report steps it has taken or will during the year and up to the date of this report.
take to resolve the issue.
Relations with Shareholders The Company has made arrangements for investors The Board and the Investment Manager consider through the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme to receive all maintaining good communications with Shareholders Company communications and have the ability to direct and engaging with larger Shareholders through the casting of their votes.
The Company however has no meetings and presentations a key priority.
responsibility for the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme.
The Company has also made arrangements with its registrar The Board regularly considers the share register of for Shareholders, who own their shares direct rather the Company and receives regular reports from the than through a nominee or share scheme, to view their Investment Manager and the corporate broker on account over the Internet at www.
Other meetings attended with Shareholders and any services are also available via this service.
concerns that are raised in such meetings.
The Board also reviews correspondence from Shareholders and By order of the Board and may attend Investor presentations.
Tracey Lago The Chair each year contacts the largest Shareholders to enable them to raise any concerns direct with the Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Board without using the Investment Manager or Company Secretary Company Secretary as a conduit.
The Chair or other 17 July 2018 Directors are available to Shareholders who wish to
