OUR GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Chairman Key Responsibilities It is the Chairmans duty to provide overall leadership and governance of the Board.
In performing this role, the Chairman sets the Board agenda, ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items and promotes a culture of openness, challenge and debate at Board meetings.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that the Directors have an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Chief Executive Officer Key Responsibilities The Chief Executive Officer CEO is responsible for executive management of the Groups business, consistent with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
He leads the senior management team in effecting decisions of the Board and its Committees and is responsible for the maintenance and protection of the reputation of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for ensuring that the affairs of the Group are conducted with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Key Responsibilities Key Responsibilities The Chief Financial Officer CFO supports the Chief The Chief Operating Officer COO supports the Chief Executive Officer in carrying out their responsibilities.
Executive Officer in carrying out their responsibilities.
The CFO is responsible for managing the Companys The COO ensures the effective operational controls and finances through financial planning, management of reporting procedures for the business to be able to grow financial risks and ensuring the accurate reporting of and achieve the strategic objectives.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Key Responsibilities Key Responsibilities Key Responsibilities } Overseeing financial reporting } Board succession planning } Setting remuneration policy for Executive Directors } Internal control systems } Determining the skills and characteristics needed in } Operating the Companys share } Risk management systems Board candidates to ensure incentive arrangements } Internal and external audit a diverse skillset } Senior management remuneration functions ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 59 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES } the Groups corporate governance How the Board works arrangements: The Board is responsible for the leadership COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE and direction of the Group and is ultimately } the operation of the Companys share GOVERNANCE CODE responsible to the Companys shareholders option schemes as recommended by the This report, which is also available on the for the Groups long-term success.
The Remuneration Committee: Companys website, explains key features of Board takes the lead in areas such as } Directors and Officers insurance the Companys governance structure and is strategy, financial policy and making sure we coverage and the commencement or designed to provide a greater understanding maintain a sound system of internal control.
settlement of any litigation: of how the principles of the UK Code, By delegating authority to its Committees, published in April 2016 by the Financial } communications with shareholders and the Board directs and reviews the Groups Reporting Council FRC, have been applied the issue of shareholder circulars: operations within an agreed framework of and the areas of focus during the year.
The } Board and senior management controls, allowing risk to be assessed and UK Code can be found on the FRCs website appointments and arrangements: and managed within agreed parameters.
conflicts of interest where permitted by The Board has established a formal schedule the Companys Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the of matters reserved for its approval and has Financial Conduct Authority, the Board delegated other specific responsibilities to its The Board has also delegated to the confirms that throughout the year ended 31 principal committees: the Audit, Nomination Chief Executive Officer the responsibility December 2018 and as at the date of this and Remuneration Committees.
These are for implementing the Groups business report, the Company has complied with the clearly defined within the terms of reference model and for the day-to-day operational principles of the UK Code.
The schedule management of the Group.
The Chief of matters reserved for the Board includes The report also includes items required Executive Officer is supported in carrying the consideration and approval of: by the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and out his responsibilities by the Chief Financial Transparency Rules.
The Board has ultimate Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and the } strategy and overall management and responsibility for the approval of the Annual senior management team.
leadership of the Group: Report and Accounts.
It has considered the } financial items including the Groups content of the Annual Report and Accounts The Board has direct access to the Company annual budget, dividend policy, annual and confirms that, taken as a whole, it Secretary, who is responsible to the Board and half-yearly accounts, accounting is fair, balanced and understandable and for ensuring that Board procedures are policies, and monetary limits: provides the necessary information for complied with.
The Board may take shareholders to assess the Companys } the risk management system and independent professional advice in the position and performance, business model internal controls: furtherance of its duties if necessary, at the and strategy.
contracts with third parties not in the ordinary course of business: } legal, administration and pension arrangements: Board diversity BOARD TENURE GENDER DIVERSITY EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE SPLIT 25% 37.5% 37.5% 50% 62.5% 75% 12.5% 0-2 years Male Executives 2-5 years Female Non-Executives 5 years 60 OUR GOVERNANCE BOARD COMPOSITION, QUALIFICATION The Chief Executive Officer is responsible APPOINTMENT AND TENURE AND EXPERIENCE for executive management of the Groups The Non-Executive Directors serve on the business, consistent with the strategy At the year end, the Board comprised the basis of letters of appointment which are and commercial objectives agreed by the independent Non-Executive Chairman, available for inspection at the Companys Board.
He leads the senior management three Executive Directors and four Nonregistered office.
The letters of appointment team in effecting decisions of the Board Executive Directors.
Biographical details set out the expected time commitment and its Committees and is responsible for of the individual Directors can be found of the Non-Executive Directors who, on the maintenance and protection of the on pages 56 and 57.
The Non-Executive appointment, undertake that they have reputation of the Group.
The Chief Executive Directors were appointed for the diversity of sufficient time to carry out their duties.
Officer is also responsible for ensuring that their backgrounds as well as their personal There is no fixed expiry date and no notice the affairs of the Group are conducted with attributes and experience.
The current Board period in their letters of appointment.
the highest standards of integrity, probity members bring a wide range of skills and and corporate governance.
The Executive Directors service contracts are experience to the Board and all actively also available for inspection at the Companys contribute to discussions.
INTERACTION BETWEEN THE CHAIRMAN registered office.
The notice period for the AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In accordance with UK Code Provision Executive Directors is 12 months.
As noted above, the roles of Ron Marsh as B.
1.1, the Nomination Committee and the DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND TRAINING the Chairman and Martin Payne as the Chief Board have considered the independence PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Executive Officer are separate, with a distinct of each of the Non-Executive Directors.
The The Chairman, with the support of the division of responsibilities.
The partnership Board considered the Chairman and all the Company Secretary, is responsible for the between both is based on mutual trust Non-Executive Directors to be independent induction of new Directors and the ongoing and facilitated by regular contact between throughout the period.
The separation of authority enhances In accordance with UK Code Provision B.
7.1, and Louise Hardy joined the Board during the independent oversight of the executive at the 2019 AGM and all future AGMs, the the year and received a comprehensive management by the Board and helps to Board is proposing that all of the Directors induction, involving meetings with all ensure that no one individual on the Board will be subject to re-election.
Louise Hardy members of the Board on an individual has unfettered authority.
will offer herself for election at the 2019 basis, visits to all UK sites, product briefings ROLE OF THE SENIOR AGM and for re-election annually thereafter.
and training, and individual meetings with INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR the Health and Safety Director, the Company ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF Paul Dean is the Senior Independent Director Secretary, the Companys remuneration EXECUTIVE OFFICER SID of the Company and is available to advisers and the Companys auditor.
The roles and responsibilities of the shareholders if they have concerns that Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer cannot be addressed through normal As the internal and external business are separate and clearly defined.
The role of the SID is to act as a environment changes, it is important to sounding board for the Chairman and an ensure the Directors skills and knowledge It is the Chairmans duty to provide overall intermediary for the other Directors when are refreshed and updated regularly.
leadership and governance of the Board.
The SID is also available to chair The Board was therefore given presentations In performing this role, the Chairman sets the Board in the absence of the Chairman during the year by the Companys financial the Board agenda, ensures that adequate and has authority to add items to the advisers and brokers, as well as several time is available for discussion of all agenda of any regular or special meeting of presentations by senior management, agenda items and promotes a culture of the Board.
The role of the SID is considered in addition to the annual strategy day.
openness, challenge and debate at Board to be an important check and balance in the At Board meetings held during the year meetings.
The Chairman is also responsible Groups governance structure.
the Company Secretary updated the Board for ensuring that the Directors have an on new legislation and regulations as well understanding of the views of major as changes to the current legislative and shareholders.
regulatory regimes to which the Company is subject and the Directors also received refresher training during the year on directors responsibilities.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 61 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Board induction process STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 UNDERSTANDING THE MEETING THE TEAM VISITING SITES BUSINESS Meeting the senior management Visiting sites to understand the This will include an overview of teams.
Also meeting external operations of the business the Group structure, strategy, brokers and advisers Board procedures DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST } there is an ongoing process for The Board has conducted a review of the identifying, evaluating, and managing effectiveness of the system of internal Each Director has a duty under the the principal risks faced by the Group: controls and risk management and is Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation satisfied that it complies with Provision C. 2.3 where he or she may have a direct or } the systems have been in place for the of the UK Code.
indirect interest that conflicts with the year under review and up to the date interests of the Company.
The Company of approval of the Annual Report and FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING has robust procedures in place to identify, Accounts: PROCESS authorise and manage such conflicts } the systems are regularly reviewed by The Board recognises its duty to ensure that of interest, and these procedures have the Board: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a operated effectively during the year.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable } the systems accord with the FRC and provides the information necessary guidance on risk management, internal All potential conflicts approved by the for shareholders to assess the position and control and related financial and Board are recorded in a Conflicts of Interest performance, strategy and business model business reporting.
Register which is maintained by the of the Company.
In addition to the Annual Company Secretary and reviewed by the Report and Accounts, the Company also Board on a regular basis.
Directors have a The effectiveness of these systems is also ensures that other price-sensitive reports and continuing duty to update the Board with reviewed through the work of the Audit other information are published externally.
any changes to their conflicts of interest.
Committee described on pages 70 to 73.
The Group has a thorough assurance process DIRECTORS INDEMNITY The key risks which the Board has focused AND INSURANCE in place in respect of the preparation, on this year together with their potential verification and approval of periodic financial Details of the Directors indemnity impact and mitigating actions are set out on reports which is set out in the report of the arrangements can be found on pages 75 pages 42 to 49.
Audit Committee on pages 70 to 73. and 76 of the Directors Report.
The Company has a risk management INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK framework which adopts a top-down and MANAGEMENT a bottom-up view of the key risks on which The Board is responsible for determining involves both the downward cascade and the nature and extent of the significant upward escalation of risks between the risks it is willing to take in achieving its Group and the business units.
It is also responsible for a risk register template, a risk profile maintaining sound risk and internal control template and assessment guidelines to be systems in accordance with section C. 2.3 of used by both the Group and business units the UK Code and confirms that: when considering risk.
It also includes a detailed approach to formally recording and independently assessing Group level risks.
62 OUR GOVERNANCE This process includes: } oversight by the Audit Committee, the viability statement involving amongst other duties : assumptions: and } the involvement of qualified, professional employees with an a detailed review of key financial the going concern assumption.
appropriate level of experience both reporting judgements which have The above process provides comfort to the in Group Finance and throughout the been discussed by management: Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, Groups businesses : review and, where appropriate, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and } formal sign-off from appropriate challenge on matters including: understandable.
business segment senior executives: the consistency of, and } comprehensive review and, where any changes to, significant appropriate, challenge from appropriate accounting policies and Group senior executives and Executive practices during the year: Directors: significant adjustments resulting } a transparent process to ensure full from an external audit: disclosure of information to the external auditor: Fair, balanced and understandable In order to ensure our financial and business reporting is fair, balanced and understandable, the Company follows the process outlined below.
STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 CONCLUSION FAIR BALANCED UNDERSTANDABLE Following its review, Is the report fair?
Is there a good level of Is there a clear the Committee was consistency between and understandable of the opinion that Is the whole story the narrative reporting framework to the the 2018 Annual presented?
in the front and the report?
Report and Accounts financial reporting in are representative of Are the key messages Are the important the back of the report?
the year and present in the narrative messages highlighted a fair, balanced and reflected in the Are the statutory and appropriately understandable financial reporting?
adjusted measures throughout the overview.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 63 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT BOARD MEETINGS In order to provide the Board with greater Board dinners are typically held ahead of visibility of the Groups operations and to scheduled Board meetings to provide a more The Board met regularly during the year, provide further opportunities to meet senior relaxed forum in which the Board members holding ten Board meetings and a number management, the Board visits at least one are able to have additional discussions of other meetings and teleconferences of the Groups business unit locations each amongst themselves and with the senior to discuss and review progress on issues year.
Such visits allow the Board to gain management team at that location, which affecting the Group.
A number of a deeper understanding of local market improves the focus of the formal Board Committee meetings were also held during dynamics and to assess management meetings.
Details of attendance at Board and performance and potential.
During the year, Committee meetings are shown in the During the year the Chairman held one the Board visited the Groups operations table below.
meeting with the Non-Executive Directors in Horncastle, Doncaster, Loughborough, without the Executive Directors present, Aylesford and Caerphilly.
During these visits As the below table demonstrates, every and the Non-Executive Directors met the Board members attended management effort is made to ensure that all Directors, on one occasion without the Chairman presentations and or toured the factories where possible, attend scheduled Board being present to appraise the Chairmans and distribution centres.
However, in the event that a performance, as discussed below.
Director is unable to attend a meeting, they In November 2018 the Board held its annual are nevertheless provided with the meeting strategy day, where it spent a full day with papers and information relating to the senior management to discuss current meeting and are able to discuss the issues performance of the Group and the strategic arising with the Chairman and plan.
Members of senior management from other Directors.
across the Group presented the operational and financial performance of their respective Senior management from across the businesses in detail to the Board and Group, and advisers, attend some of the explained the growth prospects of each meetings for discussion of specific items in market segment in the UK and abroad.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Current Directors Ron Marsh 10 of 10 3 of 3 5 of 5 Martin Payne 10 of 10 3 of 3 Paul James 9 of 9 Glen Sabin 10 of 10 Moni Mannings 10 of 10 3 of 3 3 of 3 5 of 5 Paul Dean 10 of 10 3 of 3 3 of 3 5 of 5 Mark Hammond 10 of 10 3 of 3 3 of 3 5 of 5 Louise Hardy 6 of 6 2 of 2 1 of 1 2 of 2 Joined the Board on 5 March 2018.
64 OUR GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEES The results of the performance evaluation BOARD CULTURE were reviewed by the Board at its meeting The Board has appointed three Board The Board is conscious of the increasing in November 2018.
The results of the Committees: the Audit Committee, importance which corporate culture plays evaluation indicated that the Directors the Nomination Committee and the in delivering long-term business and consider the Board to be effective, Remuneration Committee.
The role and economic success and its role in shaping, collaborative and focused, with positive responsibilities of each Committee are set monitoring and overseeing culture.
The Board working relationships amongst all of its out in formal Terms of Reference.
These encourages an open and transparent culture members.
Notwithstanding the above, the Terms of Reference have been reviewed and encourages the senior management Directors recognised the need to continue during the year and adjusted as necessary teams across the Group to foster and to improve and develop their contributions, to improve the Committees efficiency maintain an open culture which is responsive and the following actions were agreed as a and to reflect legislative changes and best to stakeholder expectations and the external result of the exercise and will be progressed practice.
The updated Terms of Reference environment.
The Board will continue to work over the coming year: are available on the Companys website at to embed this successfully into its operations www.
there would be a change of emphasis in 2019. in terms of the reports to the Board and The Committees make recommendations to The Groups core values of trust, support, resulting discussions to focus on both the Board as they see fit.
Each Committee experience and innovation underpin our the historic performance and key areas Chair provides an update to the Board on culture along with our purpose, vision of focus for the future: the key discussions and decisions made at and mission.
Our aim is to do business } the area of succession planning for both the preceding Committee meeting.
responsibly and ensure we promote Board level and the appropriate tiers sustainable operations and minimise adverse BOARD EVALUATION AND below Board level would be a key area environmental and social impacts.
This is EFFECTIVENESS of focus for 2019 and 2020, including, embedded in management and employee in particular, the mid-tier skilled Following the externally facilitated Board reward schemes, where achieving health workforce: evaluation carried out in 2016 in accordance and safety targets remain key performance with UK Code Provision B.
6.2, the Board } presentations by the local management parameters.
and its Committees undertook an internal should be scheduled when Board evaluation in 2018, which was facilitated by meetings are held at each site, the Company Secretary and the Chairman.
ensuring sufficient time is given to the The evaluation consisted of a high-level management to present and engage questionnaire for the Directors completion with the Board: and a session would be which was structured to provide Directors held once a year between the Nonwith an opportunity to express their Executive Directors and the CEO to views about: discuss succession planning. }
Board structure, composition and In addition, the Chairman discussed functionality: with each Director their performance and their training needs and the Senior } Board meetings and contents: Independent Director led the assessment } Board administration and governance: of the Chairmans leadership.
As a result } interaction with management: of these individual reviews, it is considered } committee structure, functionality and that the performance of each of the meetings: and Directors continues to be effective and that each Director demonstrates sufficient } personal effectiveness and overall Board commitment to his or her role.
acknowledged that the objective of the Board in supporting the senior management team to improve the performance of the Group and promote the interests of the shareholders and stakeholders had been achieved and it would continue to constructively challenge the senior management team.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 65 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Board evaluation process STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 Directors consider areas of The results of the questionnaire Anonymised results of the performance, both individual are reviewed.
Chairman evaluation are summarised and as a Board Committee by and Company Secretary to the Board and actions for completing a questionnaire have a discussion over the improvement are discussed performance of the Board and agreed ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Companys Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting AGM, all AGM is to be held on 23 May 2019 at the Directors will retire and submit themselves Holiday Inn, High Road, Doncaster, for election or re-election.
All shareholders have the Board evaluation exercise, as Chairman I opportunity to attend and vote, in person or am satisfied that each Director continues to by proxy, at the AGM.
A copy of the notice show the necessary level of commitment to of AGM can be found on the Companys their role and has sufficient time available website at www.
to fulfil his or her duties, to justify their re-election.
Louise Hardy offers herself for The AGM is the Companys principal election at the 2019 AGM and for reforum for communication with private election annually thereafter.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chair of each of the Committees Approved by the Board and signed on will be available to answer shareholders its behalf.
Ron Marsh Chairman The notice of AGM will be sent out to 19 March 2019 shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange via a Regulatory Information Service announcement and published on the Companys website.
