AUDIT COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER, The Committee discharges its responsibilities through a series of scheduled formal I am pleased to present the Report of the meetings during the year.
Each meeting Audit Committee the Committee for 2018. has a formal agenda which is linked to The Committee is appointed by the Board the events in the financial calendar of the from its Non-Executive Directors.
Attendees at each of the meetings Committee has continued to focus on the are the Committee members as well as, by integrity of the Groups financial reporting, invitation, the Chairman, the Chief Executive risk management and internal controls, Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the and the quality of the internal and external Chief Operating Officer, the Group Financial audit processes.
We will continue to keep Controller, and the external auditor, Ernst & our activities under review to ensure that we Young LLP.
The Company Secretary is also comply with any changes in the regulatory Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee held three formal meetings The Board has asked the Committee during the year.
In accordance with best Paul Dean to oversee the process for determining practice, the Committee met with the Ernst Chair of the Audit Committee whether the Annual Report and Accounts, & Young LLP lead audit partner without 2018 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced executive management being present.
and understandable and provides the } Oversight of full year and ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE information necessary for shareholders to interim audits The full responsibilities of the Committee assess the Groups financial position and } Review of emerging risks in line with are set out in its Terms of Reference which performance, business model and strategy.
new Code requirements are available on the Companys website at } Ongoing review of progress of As a result of its work undertaken during the www.
The Terms of Reference improvements following cyber year and taking into account the result of have been reviewed and updated during security review the performance evaluation further details the year.
are set out on page 65, the Committee } Refresh and update of internal audit The key responsibilities of the Committee considers that it has acted in accordance with plan and resources are to: its Terms of Reference and has ensured the } Reviewed managements initial independence, objectivity and effectiveness of assessment of the impact of IFRS 16, } assist the Board with the discharge of its the external and internal auditors.
Leases, on the Groups consolidated responsibilities in relation to internal and financial statements external audits: I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee. }
monitor and review the Groups internal AREAS OF FOCUS IN 2019 control and risk management systems: COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND } Oversee the financial reporting } monitor and review the effectiveness of MEETINGS process and managements the Groups internal audit function: The Committee is appointed by the Board implementation of IFRS 16, Leases } monitor the integrity of the financial and comprises four Non-Executive Directors, } Oversee the assimilation of Grant statements of the Group including being Paul Dean, Mark Hammond, Louise Thornton UK LLP as the Groups its annual and half-yearly reports, Hardy and Moni Mannings.
All Committee provider of internal audit services trading updates, preliminary results members are considered independent. }
Oversee managements assessment announcements and any other In accordance with the requirements of of accounting for businesses formal announcements relating to its Provision C. 3.1 of the UK Code, Paul Dean is acquired in 2018, including their financial performance, and reviewing designated as the Committee member with evaluation and calculation of any significant financial reporting issues and recent and relevant financial experience.
contingent consideration judgements: All other members of the Committee are } Oversee managements review of the deemed to have the necessary ability and scope of external audits performed experience to understand the financial at the Groups various business units statements.
The Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
70 OUR GOVERNANCE } where requested by the Board, review GOVERNANCE Financial reporting the content of the Annual Report and In accordance with best practice, the During the year, Committee meetings were Accounts and advise the Board on effectiveness of the Committee was held prior to the Board meetings to approve whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, evaluated internally this year by means of the Groups interim and annual financial balanced and understandable and a questionnaire completed by all Directors, statement announcements and to consider provides the information necessary following the external evaluation performed the financial reporting judgements made for shareholders to assess the Groups in 2016.
At its meeting in November 2018, by management.
These considerations are financial position and performance, the Committee considered the results of the made through review of the accounting business model and strategy: internal evaluation and concluded that it papers and financial reports prepared by } oversee the relationship with the had found the Committee to be operating management and reports prepared by the external auditor including their effectively, particularly in relation to the Groups external auditor.
appointment, reappointment and or open and robust discussion of audit matters, The Committee has considered whether, removal: approval of the scope of the thus providing the Board with a high in its opinion, the Annual Report and annual audit, their remuneration and level of assurance that they are dealt with Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced the terms of engagement: monitor appropriately.
Areas which the Committee and understandable and provides the and review their independence and believed could potentially be improved were information necessary for shareholders to objectivity, the effectiveness of the audit discussed and included in its action plan for assess the Groups financial position and process and the extent of non-audit next year.
performance, business model and strategy.
services performed: and MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR } report to the Board on how it has The Committee has concluded that As part of the process of working with the discharged its responsibilities.
the disclosures, and the processes and Board to carry out its responsibilities and to controls underlying their production, were maximise its effectiveness, meetings of the appropriate and consistent and therefore Committee normally take place prior to the enabled the Committee to report to the Board meetings, at which the Chair of the Board that it had determined that the Committee provides an update to the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
At these meetings the Committee focused on the following areas: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 71 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE Significant financial reporting risk, } Inventory provisioning The Committee } considered the impact of new financial judgement and estimates reviewed the carrying amount of the reporting standards and legislative Groups finished goods inventory requirements on the Group, including The significant risk s reviewed by the and managements assessment and IFRS 16: Committee in respect of the year under recognition of the appropriate level of review were as follows: } reviewed the Committees performance, provisioning against slow-moving and effectiveness and constitution: and } Revenue recognition and customer obsolete items.
rebates The Committee considered } recommended the Report of the Audit the operating effectiveness of controls Committee for approval by the Board.
Internal control, internal audit and surrounding revenue recognition and risk management EXTERNAL AUDIT managements subjective assessment Internal audit performs an integral role Appointment and recognition of customer rebate in the Groups governance structure and liabilities at the half year and year end.
The Committee carefully considers the provides regular reports to the Committee.
reappointment of the external auditor each } Acquisition accounting The The Committee has reviewed and approved year prior to making its recommendation Committee considered a detailed the scope of the rolling internal audit work to the Board.
As part of this process, the report by management, prepared programme in relation to the Groups Committee considers the independence of with the assistance of PwC LLP, which internal controls and procedures at each of the external auditor, the effectiveness of identified which intangible assets met the three meetings held during the year.
the external audit process, its remuneration, the recognition criteria as set out in IAS The Committee reviews and challenges and the terms of engagement.
Having 38, the fair values attributed to those the results and reports from the internal reviewed the performance of Ernst & Young intangible assets, and the useful lives of audit work programme and the adequacy LLP in 2018, the Committee has decided to individual intangible assets, in respect of of managements responses and proposed recommend to the Board that Ernst & Young the businesses acquired in 2018. resolutions.
LLP should be reappointed for the 2019 The significant estimates reviewed by the audit and a resolution to this effect will be During the year, a review of the Groups Committee in respect of the year under proposed at the 2019 AGM.
internal audit requirements was undertaken review were as follows: and, following a robust process, it was In accordance with current professional } Impairment of non-financial assets agreed that Grant Thornton UK LLP be standards, the external auditor is required The Committee considered a detailed appointed to provide internal audit services to change the lead audit partner every report prepared by management to the Company from 2019. five years in order to protect auditor setting out the assumptions used in independence and objectivity.
Ernst & Young determining whether goodwill, other The Groups risk assessment process, LLP were awarded the external audit in 2012 intangible assets or property, plant and including how significant financial risks are following a competitive tendering process.
equipment required impairment for managed and mitigated, is a key area of The lead audit partner was rotated in 2017. any of the business units.
This included focus for the Committee.
During the year, In addition, the senior audit manager will a review of the discount rate and the Committee monitored and reviewed be rotated in 2019 following completion of growth factors used to calculate the the Groups risk management framework the 2018 full year audit.
In accordance with discounted projected future cash flows, and the results of testing performed by the the UK Code, the Competition and Markets the sensitivity analysis applied, and the Groups internal audit function on specific Authority CMA Order and the EU Audit discounted projected future cash flows elements of that framework.
There were Directive, it is the Companys intention to used to support the carrying amount of no significant internal control failings or put the audit out to tender at least every the goodwill.
Accordingly, the Company plans } Provisions and contingent liabilities to run a competitive tender process in or OTHER ACTIVITIES The Committee considered various before 2022. reports prepared by management which Other activities undertaken by the assess the likelihood that targets will Committee during the year included the Independence be achieved which trigger a liability to following: The independence of the external auditor the previous owners of the businesses was confirmed by Ernst & Young LLP in } considered the external audit plan and acquired in 2018, quantify the possible November 2018 and March 2019 at the approved the audit fee: range of that liability, and how that Committee meetings.
The Committee liability should be calculated and } considered the viability statement and considered Ernst & Young LLPs presentation disclosed in the consolidated financial going concern assumption: on auditor independence and confirmed statements. }
instigated, monitored and reviewed the that it considered the auditor to be Groups response to an external review independent.
of cyber security performed during the year by PwC LLP: 72 OUR GOVERNANCE Non-audit services } a review of the audit approach, scope, There were two minor incidents during the determination of significant risk areas year which were brought to the attention of The Groups non-audit services policy and materiality: the Committee.
These were reviewed and restricts the external auditor from discussed by the Committee and action was performing certain non-audit services } the execution of the audit: taken as appropriate in response.
in accordance with the Revised Ethical } interaction with management and Standard 2016 issued by the FRC.
All noncommunication with, and support to, The Committee also reviews the Groups audit services proposed to be performed by the Committee: procedure for detecting fraud and the the external auditor must be pre-approved } the quality of any recommendation systems and controls in place to prevent a and sponsored by a senior executive with a points: and breach of anti-bribery legislation.
The Group detailed written recommendation including: Finance Manual sets out the procedures to } a review of independence, objectivity the nature and scope of the proposed which employees must adhere and is aimed and scepticism.
service, the supplier selection process and at reducing the risk of fraud occurring.
criteria, the chosen supplier and selection After considering the above matters, the During the year, the Committee was notified rationale, the relationship of the individual Committee considered that the audit of a fraud in the Middle East which was within the external auditor to perform the had been effective and recommended investigated and appropriately managed by proposed service with those undertaking the to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP be local and Group management.
The Group audit work, a fee estimate and the category reappointed as external auditor to the is committed to a zero-tolerance position of non-audit service, if relevant.
Those employees the external auditor must provide a written which the Group considers are more likely statement of independence approved by FRAUD, WHISTLEBLOWING to be exposed to potential breaches of the the lead audit partner.
All non-audit services AND THE UK BRIBERY ACT Groups Anti-Bribery policy and statutory proposed to be performed by the external The Committee monitors any reported obligations under the UK Bribery Act have auditor with a fee estimate in excess of incidents under its whistleblowing policy, been provided with relevant guidance on 10,000 must also be pre-approved by which has been reviewed during the year.
This policy and approach This policy is included in the Employee Group maintains a record of all employees further enhances auditor objectivity and Handbook and sets out the procedure for who have received this guidance and independence.
There were no exceptions to employees to raise legitimate concerns requests annual confirmations from each this policy during 2018. about any wrongdoing in financial reporting relevant individual stating that they have or other matters such as: complied with the Groups policy.
Effectiveness of the external audit process } something that could be unlawful: By order of the Board.
The Committee operated a formal process } a miscarriage of justice: Paul Dean for reviewing the effectiveness of Ernst & } a danger to the health and safety of any Chair of the Audit Committee Young LLP during the year under review.
individual: 19 March 2019 } damage to the environment: or This process included the following: } improper conduct. }
an assessment of the lead audit partner and the audit team: External audit process review STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 An assessment of the lead audit A review of the audit approach, The execution of the audit partner and the audit team scope, determination of significant risk areas and materiality STAGE 6 STAGE 5 STAGE 4 A review of independence, The quality of any Interaction with management and objectivity and scepticism recommendation points the Committee ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 73 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
