NOMINATION COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER, ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE I am delighted to present the Report of the The Committees main responsibilities are to Nomination Committee the Committee evaluate the structure, size and composition for 2018.
During the year, the Committee including the skills, knowledge, experience has overseen further Board changes, and and diversity required of the Board and the a more comprehensive description of the Committees: to give full consideration to activities of the Committee during the year succession planning of Directors and other is provided in the following report.
I will senior executives and to assist with the be available at the AGM to answer any selection process of new Executive and Nonquestions about the work of the Committee.
Executive Directors including the Chairman.
The Committees Terms of Reference were COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP reviewed and updated in December 2018 AND MEETINGS and explain the Committees role and The Committee comprises Ron Marsh responsibilities.
the Chairman, all of the Non-Executive Directors, being Moni Mannings, Paul The Terms of Reference can be found on the Ron Marsh Dean, Mark Hammond and Louise Hardy, Companys website at www.
Chair of the Nomination and Martin Payne the Chief Executive The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to Committee Officer.
Accordingly, there are six members.
2018 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS The Committee is chaired by the Board In accordance with its Terms of Reference, } Appointment of Louise Hardy as a Chairman except when considering his own the Committee is required to: Non-Executive Director re-election. }
Review of Board composition } review the structure, size and In accordance with UK Code Provision and skills composition of the Board and make B.
2.1, the majority of the members were recommendations to the Board, as } Review of Board and senior independent.
During the year, Louise Hardy appropriate: management succession plans was appointed as a Non-Executive Director } consider succession planning for and as a member of the Committee.
Directors and other senior executives, AREAS OF FOCUS IN 2019 taking into account the challenges and The members of the Committee and details } Focusing on the composition of the opportunities facing the Group and the of their attendance at Committee meetings Board in light of the requirements of future skills and expertise needed on are set out on page 64.
Biographies of each the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board: member are shown on pages 56 and 57. including in particular succession Under the Committees Terms of Reference, } review the leadership needs of the planning for the Non-Executive the Committee will normally meet not less organisation, both Executive and NonDirectors than twice a year and at such other times as Executive, with a view to ensuring the } The Committee will continue to the Chairman shall require.
The Committee continued ability of the organisation to consider diversity in 2019, bearing held three scheduled formal meetings compete effectively in the marketplace: in mind the recommendations from during the year under review.
After each } identify the balance of skills, knowledge, the Hampton-Alexander Review on Committee meeting, the Chairman reports diversity and experience on the Board FTSE Women Leaders and the Parker to the Board on the main items discussed.
and nominate candidates to fill Board Review on Diversity of Boards, and vacancies: will report on this in due course } identify and nominate for the approval } The Committee will continue to of the Board, candidates to fill Board consider talent management on a vacancies as and when they arise: Group-wide basis and succession planning for the senior executives, } review the time commitment required taking into account the challenges from Non-Executive Directors: and opportunities facing the Group } review the results of the Board as it implements its strategy and the performance evaluation process future skills and expertise needed as that relates to the composition of the a result Board: and } Review and approve the Groups diversity policy and evaluate its effectiveness on a regular basis.
68 OUR GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE provided to senior and middle management Non-Executive Director role and where appropriate in order to continue to recommended her appointment to The effectiveness of the Committee was develop the pipeline of internal talent for the Board.
considered as part of the Board and the future.
Committee evaluation detailed on page DIVERSITY 65.
At its meeting in December 2018, the In addition, the Committee considers The Committee supports diversity, Committee considered the contents of the emergency succession planning and is acknowledging the advantages that review and concluded that the evaluation comfortable that a framework is in place come from having diverse viewpoints and had found the Committee to be operating should key management roles need to be the influence this can have in decision effectively and providing robust challenge to covered on an interim basis.
It is the aim of the Committee the business.
to always consider the benefits that arise Board appointment criteria are considered MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR from a diverse Board when making Board automatically as part of the Committees appointments.
The Companys recruitment During the year under review, the review of succession planning.
The and appointment strategy is based on the Committee carried out a process to recruit Committee believes that limited tenure of merits of the individual candidates, without an additional Non-Executive Director, and the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors bias towards age, gender, marital or family further information on this process is set and their subsequent enforced retirement status, race, sexual orientation, religion or out below.
The Committee also carried as Directors is not always appropriate and belief or any disability.
Currently, two of out its duties as listed above and has given matters of Director tenure are viewed on a the eight Directors are female, as well as particular focus to succession planning for case-by-case basis.
Currently all the Nonthe Company Secretary.
The Company is both the Board members as well as senior Executive Directors and the Chairman have committed to working towards achievement executives as discussed below.
As stated in been in post for less than six years, as set of 33% women on the Board and in the Corporate Governance Report, all of the out in Provision B.
leadership positions by 2020 as set out in Companys Directors will retire and each will the Hampton-Alexander Review.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR offer themselves for election or re-election APPOINTMENT at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Details of diversity within our workforce, UK Code Provision B.
The Chairman On the authority of the Committee, a including at Board and senior management confirms that the Committee has considered subcommittee comprising Mrs Mannings, level, can be found in the Supporting our the formal performance evaluation and the Chairman and the Company Secretary Sustainable Journey section on pages 50 the contribution and commitment of all met with three executive recruitment firms to 53.
The Chairman has confirmed following which Warren Partners were to the Board that their performance and engaged to identify potential candidates TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS commitment is such that the Company for the Non-Executive Director role.
Appointments to the Board are typically should support their re-election.
Warren Partners undertook an extensive made for an initial term of three years and search process using the brief provided are ordinarily limited to three consecutive No Director was able to vote in respect of by the Committee, and reviewed CVs and terms in office, subject to annual re-election their own re-election when consideration was interviewed various candidates before by shareholders at the AGM.
given to Director re-election at the AGM.
providing the subcommittee members with By order of the Board.
The merits of all Information on the Directors service candidates on the longlist were discussed agreements, shareholdings and share Ron Marsh by Warren Partners and the subcommittee, options is set out in the Directors Chair of the Nomination Committee including feedback from the interviews Remuneration Report on pages 95 to 103.
19 March 2019 carried out by Warren Partners.
Following SUCCESSION PLANNING this discussion, a shortlist of candidates was prepared by Warren Partners and the A key activity of the Committee is to keep five candidates, all of whom were women, under review the Companys succession were interviewed by the subcommittee.
plans for members of the Board and senior Following this process, the subcommittee managers over the short, medium and long recommended three candidates be term to ensure that the composition of interviewed by the Executive Directors and the Board and senior management team the other Committee members.
As a result, remains appropriately balanced between all Committee members agreed that Louise new and innovative thinking and longerHardy had the necessary attributes and skills term stability.
Management training is that were being sought for the ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 69 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
