CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the Establish context governance of the Company on behalf of Premiers shareholders and is accountable to Premiers shareholders for the long-term success of the Group.
The Board governs the Group in accordance Risk assessment with the authority set out in the Companys Articles of Association and in compliance Risk communication Risk identification Risk monitoring with the UK Corporate Governance Code and consultation and review Risk analysis the Code.
A copy of the Articles of and evaluation Association is available on Premiers website www.
A copy of the Code can be accessed at www.
Our governance goes beyond regulatory compliance and puts the interests of all our stakeholders at the heart of the Boards Risk reduction decision-making.
Risk management and internal control Continuous improvement The Board sets the Companys strategic objectives and ensures that they are properly pursued within a sound framework The Board is responsible for maintaining Further details about the systems used of internal controls and risk management.
sound risk management and internal for ongoing monitoring and annual review As part of this process, the Board control systems.
In meeting this of the Companys risk management and determines the nature and extent of the responsibility, the Board monitors the internal control systems are set out on principal risks it is willing to take in Companys risk management and internal pages 36 and 37 of the Principal Risks achieving the Companys strategic control systems throughout the year and, section of the Strategic Report and on objectives and ensures that major risks are on an annual basis, carries out a review of pages 73 and 74 of the Audit and Risk actively monitored, with health, safety, their effectiveness.
environment and security HSES borne in mind at all times.
Position Role and responsibilities The Chairmans role is part-time and he is a Non-Executive Director.
His primary responsibility is the leadership of the Board, Chairman of ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role including maintaining effective communication with Premiers shareholders and the Board other stakeholders.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Board Executive relationship.
This is effected through meetings, as well as contact with other Board members, shareholders, joint venture partners, host governments and other stakeholders.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, which has been agreed by the Board and is set out in writing.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day running of the Groups operations, for applying Group policies, Chief Executive including HSES, and for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board.
He plays a pivotal role in developing and reviewing the Officer strategy in consultation with the Board and in executing it with the support of the Executive Committee.
The Companys Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through Senior discussion with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible Independent for leading the annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
Director The Non-Executive Directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy and resource, including senior appointments Non-Executive and standards of conduct.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to challenge independently and Directors constructively the performance of executive management and to monitor the performance of the management team in the delivery of the agreed objectives and targets.
In meeting this responsibility, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors meet periodically without the Executive Directors present, and the Non-Executive Directors meet once a year without the Chairman present.
The Non-Executive Directors must also be satisfied with the integrity of the Groups financial information and with the robustness of Premiers internal control and risk management systems.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors and have a key role in succession planning and the appointment of and, where necessary, removal of Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are required to be free from any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect the independence of their judgement.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specified term of three years subject to annual re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a director.
The terms and conditions of their appointment are made available for inspection.
Letters of appointment set out an expected time commitment, and all Non-Executive Directors undertake that they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Any significant other business commitments are disclosed to the Board prior to appointment.
Changes to such commitments are disclosed to the Board on an ongoing basis.
Where necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors, the Directors have access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Company The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring good information flows between the Board and its Secretary Committees and between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary also plays a pivotal role in facilitating the induction of new Directors and assisting with the ongoing training and development needs of Board members as required.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 64 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 65 How the Board operates The Board has the opportunity to meet with to ExCo members, the Group HSE Manager, The Board has a structured agenda for the management and discuss key projects Group Financial Controller and additional year ensuring all relevant matters are through Board presentations and more members of the exploration team.
considered, with sufficient time for detailed management presentation sessions.
Quarterly Performance Review meetings discussion.
The programme is structured to Board Committees are also held between ExCo members and include: strategic issues, including setting The Board has established Audit and Risk, the senior management team from within the strategy and assessing performance in Remuneration and Nomination each of the business units and include risk executing the strategy: the annual business Committees.
Each Committee has formal management and HSES reviews as part of plan and budget: HSES and risk: internal terms of reference approved by the Board, the overall review of each quarter.
controls and risk management: corporate copies of which can be found on the responsibility: financing: investor relations: Disclosure Committee Companys website.
The Company Secretary corporate reporting: Board Committee The Company is required to make timely provides advice and support to the Board related activity, including matters requiring and accurate disclosure of all information and all Board Committees.
Board Board sanction: and other corporate that is required to be so disclosed to meet Committees are authorised to engage governance matters.
the legal and regulatory requirements the services of external advisers as they arising from its listing on the London The Board meets at least six times each year deem necessary.
and, in addition, an update conference call Details of the work of our Audit and Risk, generally takes place in the months when A Disclosure Committee has been Remuneration and Nomination Committees no formal meeting is scheduled.
Ad-hoc established to assist the Company in are set out in the Committee sections of this Board meetings are held as required to deal meeting the above requirements and has report.
with specific matters requiring Board responsibility for, among other things, consideration.
The agenda for each Board Executive Committee and determining on a timely basis the disclosure meeting is set by the Chairman in management structure treatment of material information.
consultation with the Chief Executive The Board delegates the day-to-day running The Committee also has responsibility for Officer and the Company Secretary based of the Group to the Chief Executive Officer the identification of inside information for on an annual programme, with any who is assisted by the Executive Committee.
the purpose of maintaining the Companys additional matters included as and when The Executive Committee ExCo meets insider list.
formally once a month and its membership Board members receive a monthly report on comprises: each of the Executive Directors: the Companys activities which incorporates Nic Braley, the Group Commercial and an update on progress against corporate Strategy Manager: Mike Fleming, the Group objectives, financial performance and the HR Director: Andy Gibb, the Group General management of business risks including Counsel: Dean Griffin, the Head of HSES matters.
Exploration: Stuart Wheaton, Chief Technical Officer: and Bassem Zaki, the A formal schedule of Matters Reserved for Business Development Manager.
In addition the Board can be found on the Companys to formal monthly ExCo meetings, the ExCo website www.
The schedule holds fortnightly meetings with the is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Key Country Managers and, in the alternate matters reserved for the Board are set out in weeks, there is a fortnightly meeting with the diagram below.
functional heads which includes, in addition Matters Reserved for the Board Corporate strategy Finance Risk management and Shareholder communication Overall direction and Group debt and internal control Approval of Half-Year strategy of the business equity structure Determination of the and Full-Year results appropriate level of risk announcements and O versight of the Groups Significant changes in exposure for the Company trading updates operations and review of accounting policies performance Recognising high impact Management of relationships Controls related to covenant business risks and approving and dialogue with compliance Group values risk mitigating strategies shareholders Major changes in Expenditure Monitoring effectiveness of Approval of the Companys organisation structure Group budget internal control systems Annual Report and Financial New country and or Major capital expenditure including finance, operations, Statements business entry Development plans HSES and asset integrity and Succession planning Acquisition and or and projects undertaking an annual and appointments disposal of interests assessment thereof Appointment and removal of Corporate governance Directors and the Company The Groups corporate Secretary governance and compliance Appointment and removal arrangements of the Companys brokers Undertaking an annual and advisers evaluation of Board and Committee performance Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements
