AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Dear shareholder, Iain Macdonald As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee it is my responsibility to ensure Chairman of the Audit that the Committee is rigorous and effective and Risk Committee in carrying out its role as summarised in the adjacent column.
SCHEDULED The terms of reference of the Committee are Meetings attended reviewed annually by the Committee and Members eligible to attend then by the Board, and are available on the Iain Macdonald Chair 4 4 Companys website www.
Dave Blackwood 3 4 The members of the Committee are currently Dave Blackwood, Mike Wheeler Mike Wheeler 4 4 and myself, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
All have been members throughout 2018.
Role of the Committee How the Committee spent The Board is satisfied that the membership Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of its time during the year % of the Committee meets the requirement for the Companys risk management and recent and relevant financial experience.
Governance Risk management and internal control Monitors and reviews the effectiveness The meetings of the Committee are Financial reporting and objectivity of the Companys Group normally attended by the Chairman, Audit Audit and Risk Function, the Finance Director, the Group Financial appropriateness of its work plan, the Controller, the Group Audit and Risk 10% results of audits and reviews undertaken, Manager and representatives of the 14% and the adequacy of managements auditors.
Other members of the Executive response to matters raised.
Committee or senior managers are required 32% to attend when significant risk management Monitors the integrity of the Companys or internal control matters relating to their financial statements and any formal area of responsibility are considered by the announcements relating to the Companys Committee.
During the year, the Committee financial performance and the significant meets privately with the Group Audit and financial reporting judgements they Risk Manager and with the Companys contain.
The Company Secretary acts as Reviews the external auditors secretary to the Committee.
independence and objectivity and the 44% effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any Develops and implements policy on the matters on which it considers that action engagement of the external auditors to or improvement is needed, and to make supply non-audit services.
recommendations on the steps to be taken.
Monitors the enforcement of the Companys Global Code of Conduct Meetings and the adequacy and security of its The Committee meets four times per year whistleblowing procedure.
and has an agenda linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Activities during the year The Committee held four scheduled meetings during 2018.
In March 2018, the Committee reviewed the 2017 Full-Year Results and the Annual Report and Financial Statements, discussed with the auditors their audit findings and completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems so as to be able to approve its statements on risk management and internal control in the Annual Report.
In completing this review, the Committee discussed specific operational issues that had arisen in 2017 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 72 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 73 and significant risks foreseen for 2018, with In November, the Committee received place by each function and business unit for particular emphasis on risks arising due to updates on the current major business risks, 2019.
As discussed in more detail on page 75, accounting for the Groups refinancing.
including learnings from recent incidents the Committee also reviewed the The Committee reviewed and endorsed the and materialised risks.
The committee also effectiveness of the audit process and the schedule of reportable audits and reviews discussed the emerging risks facing the independence of Ernst & Young LLP.
of the internal controls planned for the year.
business and the procedures in place to Risk management and internal control The Committee reviewed with management identify them, in accordance with the The Committee continues to be responsible the hydrocarbon reserves reporting process incoming Code requirements for 2019.
The for reviewing the design and operating and undertook a review of its own committee also noted significant findings effectiveness of the Groups risk effectiveness.
Finally, the Committee from the reported audits and reviews management system.
This system is reviewed and approved its report for conducted over the period and considered designed to assess, reduce, monitor and inclusion in the Annual Report and the closeout of actions arising from these communicate the principal risks facing Financial Statements.
audits including the status of overdue the Group and to identify emerging risks.
As part of its review, the Committee At its June meeting, the Committee received There is an continuing process of received presentations from the Companys updates on the current major business risks, refinement and embedding of risk Tax, Treasury and Information Systems including learnings from recent incidents management best practice throughout departments on certain risks facing their and materialised risks.
The Committee also the Group in accordance with the principles business functions and the controls in place reviewed the structure and design of the and guidelines set out in ISO 31000.
The Committee considered companys Business Management System management and internal control in the expected accounting and reporting issues and the plans in place to continue to Group is discussed more fully in the relating to the Full-Year Results and the improve its effectiveness.
The Committee Principal Risks section of the Strategic auditors work plan which built on the also received a presentation from the Report on pages 36 to 41. discussions held at the time of the Half-Year companys cyber security manager on Results, and reviewed and approved the The Group-wide governance, risk the cyber risks facing the business.
In addition, the management and internal control systems Committee reviewed progress and Committee received a report outlining the include specific internal controls governing significant findings from the management Groups work on the implementation of the financial reporting process and system audits and reviews that were IFRS 16 and the expected financial impact preparation of financial statements.
These conducted over the period including the on implementation on 1 January 2019 and systems include clear policies, standards closeout status of actions arising from the Groups 2019 budget.
and procedures for ensuring that the these audits.
In addition, the Committee Groups financial reporting processes and reviewed issues that were expected to The Committee met in March 2019 to review the preparation of its consolidated accounts affect the Half-Year Results, including the key accounting and reporting issues comply with relevant regulatory reporting future oil price assumptions and relating to the 2018 Full-Year Results and the requirements.
These policies are applied consequent asset impairment indicators.
draft Annual Report and Financial consistently by the finance reporting teams Finally, the Committee reviewed the Statements and to discuss with the auditors at head office and in each business unit in Audit Planning report and received an their audit findings.
In these meetings the the preparation of the financial results.
overview of the likely impact on the Committee also completed its annual review Group of the implementation of IFRS 16, of the effectiveness of the Groups risk Management representations covering on Lease accounting.
management and internal control systems compliance with relevant policies and the so as to be able to approve the statements on accuracy of financial information are At the August meeting, the Committee risk management and internal control in collated on a biannual basis.
Detailed reviewed the Half-Year Results and the Principal Risks section of the Strategic management accounts for each reporting discussed the auditors report on their Report on pages 36 to 41 and to report to the business unit are prepared monthly, review of the Half-Year Results.
The Board that, in the Committees view, the comprising an income statement and a cash Committee received updates on the current Annual Report and Financial Statements, flow statement in a manner very similar to major business risks and significant taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and the year-end and half-yearly reporting findings from the reported audits and understandable and provides the processes.
These are subject to management reviews conducted over the period and the information necessary for shareholders to review and analysis in the monthly closeout of actions arising from these assess the Groups position and consolidated management accounts.
The Committee also received performance, business model and strategy.
presentations from the Companys The Committees review included the going Marketing and Supply Chain departments concern statement and viability statement on selected risks facing their business area included within the Annual Report and and the controls in place to manage these Financial Statements and the forecasts risks.
Finally the Committee received a prepared by management on which the progress update on actions set out in the statements are based.
In completing its annual control improvement plans put in annual review of the effectiveness of the place by the group functions and business risk management and internal control units for the year.
systems, the Committee reviewed the close-out of the audits and review from 2018 and the control improvement plans put in Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Internal assurance Financial reporting The Committee has advised the Board that Internal assurance in Premier is The Committee reviewed the 2018 Half-Year it is reasonable for the Directors to expect administered by the Group Audit & Risk and Full-Year financial results that the Group will have adequate resources Manager in conjunction with the Group announcements and 2018 Annual Report to continue in operational existence for Financial Controller and with the support and Financial Statements with the Finance the foreseeable future and, accordingly, that of the Group Functional Managers.
Director and Group Financial Controller the going concern basis is the appropriate and considered the findings from the basis of preparation for the 2018 financial The company assures the effectiveness auditors review of the Half-Year Results and statements.
of its internal controls through an annual their audit of the 2018 financial statements.
risk-based programme of management Recoverability of intangible exploration The areas of focus for the Committee system audits and reviews.
and evaluation E&E assets included consistency of application of The Committee satisfied itself by reference The Company conducts three levels accounting practices and policies: to the Groups business plan and discussion ofreview: compliance with financial reporting with management that, in respect of all standards and stock exchange and legal 1.
Local E&E assets, either commercially viable requirements: the appropriateness of management reviews are designed to resources have been discovered or assumptions and judgements in items assure the effectiveness of a local substantive expenditure on further subject to estimation: the going concern management system.
exploration and evaluation activities in the assumption: the clarity and completeness 2.
G roup function review of a business specific area is budgeted or planned and an of disclosures in the financial statements: area.
Group functional reviews are unexpired licence period remains.
Details of and, in relation to the Annual Report and designed to assure the effectiveness of the Groups E&E assets are provided in note Financial Statements, whether, taken as a group management system as applied 9 to the financial statements on page 140. a whole, it is fair, balanced and to a business unit, asset or project.
understandable and provides the Oil and gas reserves 3.
Third party information necessary for shareholders Unit-of-production depreciation, depletion reviews are commissioned on a risk basis to assess the Groups position and and amortisation charges are principally to provide independent assurance of the performance, business model and strategy.
measured based on managements effectiveness of a group or local estimates of proven and probable oil and The Committee considered the following management system.
Estimates of proven and major items that required significant risk-critical management systems, the probable reserves are also used in the judgement and estimation in preparing company assures the effectiveness of the determination of impairment charges.
the 2018 financial statements: management system though recognised Proven and probable reserves estimates industry certification e. g. ISO14001, Going concern are based on a number of underlying OHSAS18001.
The Committee reviewed in detail assumptions including future oil and gas managements projections of the Groups prices, future costs, oil and gas in place On an annual basis, the Committee agrees liquidity position under the terms of its and reservoir performance, all of which the risk-based programme of the most revised financing facilities.
significant audits and reviews with assumptions in the projections included management.
The Committee then receives The Committee considered reports from those related to oil and gas prices during the reports at each meeting from the Group management on the process applied to period and portfolio management options Audit & Risk Manager covering progress calculate the reserves estimates, addressing available during the forecast period.
The against the audit programme, significant in particular the extent to which the key assumptions were assessed and findings emerging and the closeout of methodology and techniques applied challenged by the Committee.
actions agreed to address the findings.
by the Company were generally accepted Following the completion of the Groups industry practice, whether the methodology By agreeing a suitable risk-based audit refinancing of its credit facilities in 2017, at 31 and techniques applied were consistent programme and ensuring that audit December 2018 the Group had availability of with those applied in prior years, and the findings are followed up, the Committee financing and the Groups base case experience and expertise of the managers is able to provide assurance to the Board projections indicated that the Group will be who prepared and reviewed the estimates.
that Premier is embedding effective risk able to operate under the requirements of its management and assuring the effectiveness The Committee noted that estimates of the existing borrowing facilities and will have of its internal controls.
Groups oil and gas proven and probable sufficient financial headroom throughout reserves prepared by independent reservoir the going concern period, which is for the engineers for producing and development 12-month period ending 31 March 2020. fields were marginally lower than The Committee is satisfied that the managements estimates.
The Committee judgements applied in making the discussed with management the main assumptions and estimates that underpin reasons for the difference between the the forecasts and projections have been two estimates and was satisfied that it exercised in an appropriate manner.
was appropriate to apply managements Therefore, the Committee has concluded estimates for the purpose of preparing that the statement on going concern in the the financial statements.
Financial Review on page 35 is fair and balanced.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 74 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 75 Impairment of oil and gas properties development costs were based on detailed The Committee discussed with As explained in note 10 to the financial and carefully reviewed current estimates.
management their projections of probable statements on page 142, a net reversal of UK taxable profits and noted that these The Committee was satisfied that the impairment of US$35.2 million has been projections include existing producing rates used to discount future cash flows credited to the income statement in the assets and certain currently unsanctioned appropriately reflect current market year, in respect of the Solan field credit of UK development projects.
The projections assessments of the time value of money US$55.7 million pre-tax in the UK North use underlying assumptions which are and the risks associated with the specific Sea as a result of a reduction in the expected consistent with those used in the asset assets concerned, to the extent risks are decommissioning cost for the asset.
This impairment review and support the not incorporated in forecasted cash flows.
has been partially offset by an impairment recognition of a net deferred tax asset of charge of US$20.5 million pre-tax in The Committee was satisfied that the most US$1,294.6 million, resulting in a tax charge relation to the Huntington field in the significant assumptions on which the of US$53.1 million for the year.
Further UK North Sea, principally due to an increase amount of the impairment charge and details of the deferred tax asset and the in the expected decommissioning cost of reversal of impairment are based are assumptions used to estimate the amount the asset.
future oil and gas prices and the discount of tax recoverable in respect of tax losses rate applied to the forecast future cash and allowances are provided in notes 6 and In order to determine whether an asset flows and, accordingly, that the disclosure 19 to the financial statements on pages 136 is impaired or whether a reversal of of the sensitivity of the impairment charge and 152, respectively.
impairment is required, management assess to changes in these factors in note 10 to the whether any indicators for impairment or External audit Audit effectiveness financial statements.
reversal of impairment exist for the Groups The Committee reviewed the auditors producing and development oil and gas Provisions for decommissioning costs work plan at the start of the audit cycle, properties.
Where such an indicator exists, Estimates of the cost of future considering in particular the effectiveness the future discounted net cash flows the decommissioning and restoration of of the transition from Deloitte to Ernst & Company expects to derive from the asset hydrocarbon facilities are based on current Young LLP as external auditors and the new must be estimated.
Such estimates are legal and constructive requirements, auditors assessment of the significant areas based on a number of assumptions technology and price levels, while estimates of risk in the Groups financial statements.
including future oil and gas prices, the latest of when decommissioning will occur For 2018, the significant areas of risk estimates of costs to be incurred in bringing depend on assumptions made regarding the corresponded with the major areas of fields under development into production, economic life of fields which in turn depend judgement identified by the Committee oil and gas reserves estimates, production on such factors as oil prices and operating discussed above, and the scope of their rates and the associated cost profiles and costs.
The Committee therefore discussed work.
At the conclusion of the audit, the discount rates that reflect risks specific to with management the estimation process Committee discussed with the auditors individual assets.
and the basis for the principal assumptions the findings of the audit, including key underlying the cost estimates, noting in accounting and audit judgements, the level In view of continued volatility in observed particular the reasons for any major of errors identified during the audit, the oil and gas prices, management prepared a changes in estimates as compared with the recommendations made to management detailed indicators of impairment report previous year.
The Committee was satisfied by the auditors and managements response.
for the Committee setting out the key that the approach applied was fair and The Committee met privately with the assumptions for each of the oil and gas reasonable.
The Committee was also auditors in 2018 and in March 2019 at the properties.
The Committee challenged these satisfied that the combination of discount conclusion of the 2018 audit.
assumptions and judgements to ensure that and rig rates used to calculate the provision they were consistent with those that were The Committee also assessed the was appropriate.
Further information on used by management for budgeting and effectiveness of the audit process, based on decommissioning provisions is provided in capital investment appraisal purposes: that its own experience and on feedback from note 17 on page 146. production volumes were derived from the the corporate and business unit finance oil and gas reserves estimates discussed Taxation teams, and considered in particular: above, applying the same assumptions The Group currently produces oil and or gas the experience and expertise of the regarding future costs: and that they were in five countries and is subject to complex audit team: reasonable within the context of the hydrocarbon and corporate tax regimes in the auditors fulfilment of the agreed observed field performance and the wider each of them.
Judgements must be applied audit plan and any variations from economic environment currently being in order to make provision for the amounts the plan: observed.
of tax that are expected to be settled.
Also, the robustness and perceptiveness of in order to continue to recognise the The Committee noted the long-term the auditors in their handling of the key substantial deferred tax asset relating to planning assumptions used by the accounting and audit judgements: and tax losses and allowances in the UK, it must Company that assumed future oil and gas be considered that sufficient taxable profits the quality of the auditors prices of US$60 bbl in 2019, US$65 bbl in will be available against which the tax recommendations for financial reporting 2020, US$70 bbl in 2021 followed by an oil losses and allowances can be utilised.
This process and control improvements.
price of US$75 bbl in real terms thereafter in turn requires assumptions about future as explained in more detail in note 10 to the profitability.
The Committee also noted that forecast field Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Auditors independence and objectivity Ernst & Young LLP were required to The Committee regularly reviews the confirm to the Committee that they have independence and objectivity of the both the appropriate independence and auditors.
This review considers the overall objectivity to allow them to continue to relationship between the auditors and the serve the members of the Company.
The Company, based on feedback from the Committee also requires the auditors to Companys Finance Function and from the confirm that in providing non-audit auditors, and the nature and extent of services, they comply with the Ethical non-audit services provided by the auditors, Standards for Auditors issued by the and takes account of the safeguards UK Auditing Practices Board.
This established by the auditors against loss of confirmation was received for 2018. audit independence, including rotation of Auditor appointment the audit engagement partner.
The Committee considers the The Committee believes that certain reappointment of the auditors each year.
non-audit work may be carried out by the Based on its review of the effectiveness of auditors without compromising their the 2018 audit and the independence and independence and objectivity.
The objectivity of the auditors, the Committee allocation of non-audit work is considered concluded that the auditors effectiveness by reference to the Companys policy on the and independence has not been impaired provision of non-audit services by the in any way.
The Committee has reported auditors, which can be found on the accordingly to the Board and a resolution Companys website.
The use of the auditors to re-appoint EY as the Group's external for services relating to accounting systems auditors will be proposed at the Group's or the preparation of financial statements is 2019 Annual General Meeting.
not permitted, and neither are various other Committee evaluation services, such as valuation work, which The performance and effectiveness of the could give rise to conflicts of interest or Committee was reviewed as part of the other threats to the auditors objectivity Board performance evaluation process and that cannot be reduced to an acceptable the Committee also carried out a detailed level by applying safeguards.
The Committee was Committee believes that certain non-audit considered to be operating effectively and assurance and advisory services may be in accordance with the Financial Reporting best performed by the auditors as a result of Councils Guidance on Audit Committees.
their unique knowledge of the Company.
Any non-audit work of this nature requires On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Committee approves the fees for the Iain Macdonald audit and half-yearly review after reviewing Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee the scope of work to be performed, and reviews the scope and fees for non-audit assignments awarded to the auditors to satisfy itself that the assignments concerned do not give rise to threats to the auditors independence and objectivity.
Details of audit and non-audit fees in the current year are provided in note 3 to the financial statements on page 135.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 76
