STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 77 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dear shareholder, Roy A Franklin Following a number of appointments to the Board in 2017, including my own, the Committee Chairman Committee has focused much of its time in 2018 on leadership development and reviewing the organisational structure Meetings attended of the business to ensure that your Members eligible to attend Company is well positioned for the next phase of its development.
Roy A Franklin Chair 3 3 This report outlines details of the Dave Blackwood 2 3 Committees work during the course of 2018, Anne Marie Cannon 3 3 including the preparations that the Committee has made to ensure that the Mike Wheeler 3 3 Company is able to apply the principles of Tony Durrant 3 3 the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Iain Macdonald 3 3 Leadership structure Jane Hinkley 2 3 With the Catcher field reaching plateau production in 2018 along with the sanction of the Tolmount Main Development, the Committee reviewed a number of changes How the Committee spent Role of the Committee to the senior leadership team proposed by its time during the year % To plan Board member succession and the Executive.
Stuart Wheaton, formerly oversee plans for senior management the UK Business Unit Manager, moved to Governance and organisational structure succession, taking into account the the London office to take up the role of Executive Director and strategy of the Company and the skills, Chief Technical Officer on the Executive senior management succession knowledge, diversity and experience Committee, providing technical support Non-Executive Director succession required to deliver the strategy.
for the Business Units whilst leading the Group Function in London.
Paul Williams, To regularly review the structure, 40% formerly Group Development and size and composition of the Board Operations Manager, succeeded Stuart as and Committees.
UK Business Unit Manager in July.
At the To lead the process for Board same time, a number of changes were appointments, identifying and 20% made to the leadership structure of the nominating for the approval of the Board, UK Business Unit to ensure that the candidates to fill Board vacancies.
organisation continues to be appropriately configured to manage its operated assets and to deliver the Tolmount project.
40% Employee engagement and succession planning The active engagement and development of the Groups employees has again been a key area of focus for the Committee during the year, particularly at such an important point in the Companys growth.
Engagement in this context refers to the employees level of commitment and enthusiasm towards their work and the Company: factors that are crucial in ensuring we are able to recruit, retain and motivate high quality, skilled employees.
To this end, the Committee reviewed the action plan proposed by the Group HR Director regarding staff engagement activities during 2018 and beyond.
These included: the implementation of individual development plans for all employees: presentations on the group reward process: townhall meetings to communicate strategy and operational progress: a talent Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED review process across the organisation: The report also identified some areas for Remuneration Committee.
Ridgeway and global diversity and inclusion training.
improvement and steps have already been Partners produced detailed profiles of To benchmark the effectiveness of these taken to address these.
The agreed action prospective candidates, which were later actions, an engagement survey was plan will focus primarily on: better reduced to a shortlist of candidates, both commissioned in the second half of 2018 definition and communication of strategy male and female.
"All Directors were given with the results providing a comparison internally: establishing a strong the opportunity to meet with shortlisted to the previous survey undertaken in 2017. performance management culture: and candidates and provided feedback to the I am pleased to report that participation refining the Group's operating model and Committee before a decision was made in in this survey was high and, overall, establishing a ""Premier way of doing respect of the appointment."
"engagement levels within the organisation things""."
During 2019, the Board and ExCo Following the recruitment process, the are in line with the industry benchmark.
will look to implement the recommended Board, on the recommendation of the The action plan for engagement activities actions and report to shareholders on Committee, has proposed the election during 2019 and beyond has been formalised progress in next year's Annual Report.
of Barbara Jeremiah to the Board as an by the Group HR Function to address a Changes to the UK Corporate independent Non-Executive Director at variety of different aspects of staff Governance Code the Company's 2019 AGM.
The Board intend engagement and the Committee will Both the Committee and the Board as a that Barbara will succeed Jane as Chair continue to monitor this work as required.
whole spent time in the second half of the of the Company's Remuneration Committee In terms of succession planning activities, year considering the UK Corporate following a short transition process.
work has continued to ensure the stability Governance Code 2018 the New Code that The Committee will ensure that your Board and continuity of experience, capability applies to the Company with effect from 1 continues to have the appropriate balance and performance within the senior January 2019.
Of particular focus for the of skills, knowledge and experience to lead management team.
During 2018, the focus Committee was the New Code provision Premier going forward.
of this work was on the level below the regarding workforce engagement and the Executive Committee and Business Unit implementation of an appropriate Board Diversity Policy and Country Managers.
The Committee mechanism to facilitate such engagement.
The Board recognises the benefits of was briefed throughout the process by the In November, the Committee considered a diversity in enhancing the quality of its Group HR Director.
Staff attrition rates and proposal that a workforce advisory panel performance.
We remain committed to flight risk analysis were also considered by should be constituted in 2019 to provide a ensuring the diversity of our Board, the Committee, with a focus on ensuring forum for communication between the including gender diversity, and currently optimum resource capability for upcoming Board and employees.
The composition and have two female Non-Executive Directors, projects.
terms of reference for this panel were Jane Hinkley and Anne Marie Cannon, on agreed by the Committee and the selection a Board of nine Directors which equates to Review of organisational structure process for representatives took place early 22 per cent.
Following the completion of the refinancing in 2019.
I look forward to reporting back on in 2017 and with a number of new NonThe objective of our Board Diversity Policy the work of the panel in due course.
Executive Director appointments over the is to ensure an optimum Board and efficient last 18 months, your Board felt it was Board and Committee composition and stewardship to successfully deliver the appropriate to commission an externally Board changes in the year ahead Companys strategy.
The Committee facilitated health-check of the Groups The Committee reviewed the composition reviewed its approach to Board diversity organisational structure.
In June, the of the Board and its Committees at several during the year and chose to maintain its Boston Consulting Group BCG were points during 2018.
In doing so, the current policy of embracing diversity in its selected by the Committee to carry out this Committee considered the need for broadest sense without setting measurable review.
BCG conducted over 100 interviews continuity of Committee membership to objectives.
across the business, along with an extensive maintain the knowledge and insight of the Further details of the Boards composition document analysis and research effort.
Committees, while at the same time giving are outlined on pages 60 to 63. due and careful consideration to the need to Their report was presented to the refresh membership.
Committee in November and I am pleased to report that there were many areas of Jane Hinkley, Senior Independent Director Roy A Franklin notable strength, such as the Company's and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Committee Chairman open culture, FPSO experience and will reach the end of her nine-year term 6 March 2019 commercial deal making ability which were during 2019 and has indicated her intention all commended by BCG.
to step down from the Board at the end of the year.
In the latter half of 2018, the Committee instructed Ridgeway Partners, an external search consultancy who are a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on Executive Search Firms and have no other connection with the Company, to faciliate the recruitment process for a suitable successor for Jane as a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 78
