Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Nomination Committee report The composition of the Board itself is based on a range andbalance of skills, knowledge, experience and merit.
TheNomination Committee ensures that diversity is an important consideration and part ofthe selective criteria usedto assess candidates to achieve abalanced Board.
The terms of reference of the committee are available ontheCompanys website at www.
co. uk investors Members of the Nomination Committee the Committee corporate-governance.
Report on the Committees activities during the year Number of meetings and attendance The Committee had a busy year seeking candidates with Member while in post asuitable blend of skills and experience to appoint to the Board, as the Company looked to replace a number of retiring Steven Owen Chairman 2 2 Non-executive Directors.
Nick Wiles 2 2 Geraldine Kennell 2 2 The Committee worked with Lomond Consulting a specialist agent with no other connection to the Company to lead the search Ian Krieger 1 1 for suitable candidates to replace Alun Jones, Dr Ian Rutter and Dr Stephen Kell OBE 1 1 Mark Creedy.
The Committee agreed the terms ofappointment Peter Cole 1 1 for the agent and the specification, required skills and experience that should be provided by the successful candidates.
Dear shareholder, Following this process, a shortlist of potential candidates wasproduced and they were interviewed by members of the I am delighted to present the report of the Nomination Committee to shareholders, following my appointment as Chairman and having Committee and the Managing Director to assess the suitability of each of them.
This resulted in the appointment of Ian Krieger succeeded Nick Wiles as chairman of the Nomination Committee.
as my successor as Chairman of the Audit Committee and The Board is required by the Code to establish a Nomination DrStephen Kell who succeeded Dr Rutter in February 2018.
Committee which should lead the process for Board appointments The Committee continued to search for a candidate and make recommendations for appointments to the Board.
Amajority of members of the Nomination Committee should be withrelevant expertise in the property sector to succeed MarkCreedy and were delighted to announce the appointment independent Non-executive Directors.
The Nomination Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals ofPeter Cole, Chief Investment Officer at Hammerson plc, following the same process as outlined above.
with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
During the year, the Committee also discharged its responsibilities, under its terms of reference, by: Summary of responsibilities reviewing the proposals for re-election of Directors at the The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size Annual General Meeting: andcomposition of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations with regard to any changes considered reviewing the succession planning for the Board: necessary in the identification and nomination of new directors, discussing the results of the annual directors performance the re-appointment of existing directors and appointment and skills evaluation exercise: and ofmembers to the Boards committees.
reviewing its terms of reference and agreeing amendments It also acts as a forum to assess the roles of the existing directors tothe terms of reference to encompass responsibility in office to ensure that there continues to be a balanced Board foroverseeing Board induction, conflicts of interest in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that all Board appointments are made on merit and measured against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The Board is committed to ensuring a broad mix of gender, age, nationality, experience and skills throughout the business.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 55 Nomination Committee report continued Post-year-end activities On 24 January 2019 the Board and the board of MedicX announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended all-share merger between the two companies.
Following completion of the proposed merger, it is expected that, Helen Mahy, the current Chair of MedicX will join the Board as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, and Laure Duhot, currently a Non-executive Director of MedicX, will join as Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Adviser Engagement Committee.
Nick Wiles and Geraldine Kennell will step down from the Board on completion of the merger.
This will deliver an appropriately sized and balanced Board with the complementary skills necessary to drive the enlarged group forward following the merger.
Terms of Non-executive appointments Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term and are subject to annual re-election by shareholders andto three months notice from the Company or the Director.
Each Director, on appointment, is provided with a letter setting out the terms of appointment, the fees to be paid and the time commitment expected.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office and will be on display atthe Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on11 June 2019.
Steven Owen Chairman of the Nomination Committee 30 January 2019 56 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018
