Corporate governance report Letter from the Chairman Promoting long term success Following the changes to the Board, the length of service Dear shareholder ofthe members of the Board is as set out below: Introduction I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report Length of service fortheyear ended 31 December 2018: my first as your Chairman.
The Boards leadership of the Company and oversight of the Less than one year Groups strategy continues to be supported by a robust Between one governance structure which allows for constructive debate andthree years andchallenge by its members.
This approach enables the Directors to make decisions which creates long term sustainable Between three value for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
The success andsix years ofthis approach was illustrated by PHP winning in April 2018 Over six years the UK Property Investment Award for the highest ten-year risk-adjusted total return in the UK market, with an 8% total 38 38 12 12 K annualised return relative to the Investment Property Forum benchmark over the measured period.
In addition, the Boards focus on sustainable growth was reflected in April 2018 by the Further details of the skills and experience that the new Directors inclusion of PHP inthe FTSE 250 and FTSE All-Share indices, bring to the Company can be found in their biographies on which marks an important milestone in the Companys history, pages 38 to 40. having first listedon AIM in 1996.
We announced on 24 January 2019 the proposed merger In the Corporate Governance Report over the next few pages withMedicX.
It is expected that conditional uponcompletion we provide details of our Board members, the activities of the of the merger, Helen Mahy will join the Board as Deputy Board and its Committees, and how we discharge our statutory Chairman and Senior Independent Executive Director, duties and oversight functions.
I hope this section of the report andLaureDuhot will join as a Non-executive Director and will help you gain a better understanding of the effectiveness Chairman of the AdviserEngagement Committee.
Nick Wiles of our Board and how we apply the main principles of the April and Geraldine Kennell will step down from the PHP Board on 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, issued by completion ofthe merger.
This will deliver an appropriately sized the Financial Reporting Council FRC that applied during and balanced Board with the complementary skills necessary theyear.
todrive the enlarged group forward following the merger.
Accordingly, Harry Hyman, Richard Howell, Ian Krieger, Board changes DrStephen Kell and I will all stand for re-election at the As I mentioned in my Chairmans Statement, we have made 2019Annual General Meeting which is to be held on Tuesday anumber of changes to the composition of the Board during 11June 2019 2019 AGM.
Peter Cole, who was appointed the year.
Following the Annual General Meeting in April 2018 after the 2018 AGM, will be proposed for election by 2018 AGM, long standing directors, Mark Creedy, Dr Ian Rutter shareholders at the2019 AGM.
OBE and Alun Jones all retired from the Board.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of them for their contribution to Board effectiveness growing the business ofPHP during their long service as Directors.
As your Chairman, it is my role to provide leadership to ensure In February 2018, we announced the appointment of two the operation of an effective Board, based on a culture of newNon-executive Directors to our Board, Ian Krieger and openness and mutual respect.
Such a culture allows the Board DrStephen Kell, whose appointments were confirmed by to provide constructive scrutiny of proposed investments and shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Ian brings with him finance help develop proposals on strategy.
To achieve this objective expertise and experience in the property sector, while and in accordance with the Code, the Board comprises eight Stephenis a practising General Practitioner and has an Directors, including myself.
A majority of the Board consists of in-depth understanding of healthcare commissioning.
Independent Non-executive Directors who have been selected Subsequently, we were pleased to announce the appointment to deliver an appropriate mix of diversity, skills and experience.
in May of Peter Cole, Chief Investment Officer of Hammerson The Board recognises the importance of its role in setting plc and aChartered Surveyor.
He brings significant property thetone for the culture of PHP and has always recognised related experience to the Board.
I look forward to working theimportance of boardroom diversity as providing a wide closely with them over the coming years.
range of perspectives to avoid a narrow approach in thinking.
42 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Itis the Boards policy to seek to ensure that a range We are reviewing our governance structures to ensure we ofsuitable candidates of different genders and backgrounds remain fully compliant from 1 January 2019.
In this regard isconsidered whenever we seek to make changes to the Board.
Ihavestepped down as a member of the Audit Committee The priority of the Board is to ensure that the Group continues tocomply with the new provision 24 of Section 4 of the new to have the most effective Board possible and all appointments Code.
Maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance to the Board are made on merit against objective criteria.
is integral to the delivery of our strategy and your Board remains focused oncreating sustainable long term value for the benefit Evaluation ofour shareholders and stakeholders.
During the final quarter of the year, I led the annual Board Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate evaluation process with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
Governance Code Whilst a well performing board should not learn anything from an evaluation that is not already known or under discussion, it The 2016 edition of the Code contains broad principles and gives an important opportunity to focus on performance and the specific provisions to assist how boards operate.
This Code generation of specific action points from any identified actions.
applied to PHP during the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
Details of the evaluation and the results of the process are set The Board considers that since the appointment of Ian Krieger out on pages 50 and 51. and Dr Stephen Kell in February 2018, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
Before that date three of the Stakeholders Directors, Dr Rutter, Mr Jones and Mr Creedy had ceased to be The Board is very conscious that there are a number of stakeholders regarded as independent, because they had served for more in our business model, the most important of whom are set out than nine years on the Board.
in the Responsible Business section on page 36.
It is our job to Further information on how we comply with the Code can be consider the interests of each stakeholder group when making found as follows: decisions which may affect them.
The Board spend a good deal oftime discussing the potential effects on our stakeholders as A.
Leadership Read more on page part of its evaluation ofthe acquisitions we made during the A.
At PHP we realise that our business has an impact on the A.
2 Division of responsibilities 45 communities in which we operate and therefore, our vision is to create sustainable, high quality medical centres which enable the A.
3 The Chairman 45 delivery of integrated primary care services in the local community A.
4 Non-executive Directors 45 and provide a flexible, modern environment for patients, healthcare B.
Effectiveness professionals and other users of our facilities both now and in the B.
1 Composition of the Board 45 future.
We provide further details on our initiatives to engage B.
2 Appointments to the Board 42 with all our stakeholders on pages36 to 37.
4 Development 49 One of the primary means for the Board to engage with its B.
5 Information and support 51 shareholders, particularly individual shareholders, is at the B.
As always, I would encourage you B.
7 Re-election 42 toattend the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on11 June 2019 at 10:30 a. m. at the offices of CMS Cameron C. Accountability McKenna Nabarro Olswang LLP, Cannon Place, 78 Cannon Street, C. 1 Financial and business reporting 53 London, EC4N 6AF.
A notice setting out details ofthe business C. 2 Risk management and internal control 53 to be conducted at the meeting will be posted in due course.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditor 52 This important event gives you the opportunity to meet with me, D. Remuneration and the Chairs of the other Board Committees and other Directors.
D. 1 The level and components ofremuneration 61 Looking ahead D. 2 Procedure 59 I am satisfied that our current governance structures remain E. Relations with shareholders effective and supportive of the business.
The new UK Corporate E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders 42 Governance Code was published in July 2018 and is effective E. 2 Constructive use of general meetings 43 from 1 January 2019.
Since we became a FTSE 250 company during 2018, from 1 January 2019 we will no longer be able to use the exemptions available for companies outside the FTSE250.
Steven Owen Chairman 30 January 2019 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 43 Corporate governance report Our governance structure The Board Responsible for the long term success of the Company Development of a strategy Determines the nature and extent of significant risks Approves investments and capital transactions Adviser Engagement Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Oversees and reviews performance of Adviser Oversees quality of financial and narrative reporting Leads process for Board appointments Approves fees paid to Adviser Provide assurance on internal controls, Ensures appropriate balance of skills riskmanagement and audit processes andexperience on the Board Approves any changes to the Adviser contract Reviews performance of auditor Standing Committee Remuneration Committee Approves routine business matters between Sets remuneration policy Board meetings Approves level of Non-executive Chairmans fees Approves dividend payments PHPs governance structure is illustrated above.
The Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities to its Audit, Nomination, Adviser Engagement and Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference of each of these Committees can be found at www.
Further information on the activities of these Committees and their composition can be found inthe Reports of the Audit Committee on pages 52 to 54, the Nomination Committee on pages 55 to 56 the Adviser Engagement Committee on pages 57 to 58 and the Remuneration Committee on pages 59 to 60.
In addition, the Company has established a Standing Committee to implement decisions of the Board, as necessary, between Board meetings, approve routine matters that require approval between Board meetings, and to approve the four interim dividend payments made in the year.
The Standing Committee comprises the Chairman, Steven Owen, Managing Director, Harry Hyman who may be represented by Richard Howell as his alternate and Nick Wiles, the Senior Independent Director orany other Non-executive Director.
Minutes of Standing Committee meetings are included within papers for Board meetings toformally record the actions that have been taken to implement Board decisions.
In addition, the Adviser has the following Committees thatreport as appropriate to the Board and or its Committees.
PHP Nexus Risk Committee Advisers Management Committee Activities Members Activities Members Reviews strategic Andrew Herd Chairman Considers investment Harry Hyman andoperational risks opportunities Harry Hyman RichardHowell inachieving delivery Reviews performance of ofPHPsstrategic goals Richard Howell Chris Santer PHPs assets and proposals Reviews operational risk David Austin for asset management David Austin management processes Paul Wright Reviews day-to-day David Bateman Recommends appropriate management of the Dan Whitby risk appetite levels and PHPportfolio Group Financial Controller monitors risk exposure Reports to the Board Reports to the Audit ateach meeting Committee at each ofitsmeetings Andrew Herd, who chairs the PHP Nexus Risk Committee, is a non-executive director of Nexus Tradeco Holdings Limited, theparent of the Adviser, and is the Managing Director of Lancashire Court Capital Limited, a London-based investment andconsulting business.
Andrew is a non-executive director and the Audit Committee Chair at United Trust Bank.
44 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Role of the Board How the Board functions The Board sets the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that the Board composition necessary resources are available for the Group to meet its The current Board of Directors of the Company consists of the objectives, reviews the performance of the Adviser and sets Chairman, five Independent Non-executive Directors and two the Groups values and standards, ensuring that its obligations Executive Directors from the Adviser.
to its shareholders and other stakeholders are satisfied.
Biographical information on each of our Directors can be found The Board has a schedule of matters formally reserved to onpages 38 to 40, which shows the breadth of strategic itforits decision, such as strategic and major financial matters, andfinancial management insight brought to our Board.
All of such as equity raising, debt issuance and treasury and key our Non-executive Directors bring industry experience from operational issues.
awiderange of backgrounds including finance, business The Board has delegated certain operational and management services, investment management, real estate and the NHS.
activities to the Adviser as described on page 68 in the The composition of the Board is fundamental to its success.
Advisory Agreement section of the Directors Report.
There is a Wecontinue to have a strong mix of experienced individuals on clear statement of delegated authorities setting out the financial the Board.
The majority are independent Non-executive Directors parameters within which the Adviser may act without reference who are not only able to offer an external perspective on the to the Board, although any proposal may still be taken to the business, but also constructively challenge the Executive full Board for consideration and approval where this is considered Directors, particularly when developing the Companys strategy.
The Managing Director is accountable to the Board The Non-executive Directors scrutinise the performance of the in his capacity as the managing director of the Adviser for the Adviser in meeting their agreed goals and objectives, and monitor day-to-day management of the Group and the Finance Director the reporting of that performance.
is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and the provision of quarterly management account information.
This governance structure ensures that the Board is able to Directors focus on strategic proposals, property acquisitions and major Non-executive Chairman transactions and governance matters which affect the long Executive Directors term success of the business.
There is a clear written division of responsibilities agreed by Independent Non-executive Directors the Board between the roles of the Chairman who is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board and the Managing Director who is responsible for the activities of the Adviser in managing the Groups portfolio.
Each role is clearly defined and quite distinct from the other as set out below.
12 25 63 K Chairman Leads the Board, sets the agenda and promotes a culture ofopen debate Skills Regularly meets with the Managing Director to stay informed Audit: risk management Ensures all stakeholders views are considered Finance: banking Senior Independent Director Property Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and appraises his performance Medical Is available to respond to shareholders concerns when contact through the normal channels is not appropriate Non-executive Directors 25 38 31 6 K Contribute to developing strategy Scrutinise and constructively challenge the performance The high calibre of debate and the participation of all Directors, ofexecutive management Executive and Non-executive, in its meetings allows the Board to utilise the experience and skills of the individual Directors totheir maximum potential and make decisions that are in the best interests of the Company.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 45 Corporate governance report continued Role of the Board continued How the Board functions Managing Director The Board meets regularly, with six scheduled meetings held in2018, in February, April, June, July, September and November.
Help formulate and implement strategy At each of these meetings, any specific investment decisions Manages the day-to-day running of the business are considered and approvals given as required and an update throughtheAdviser is presented on progress of strategic initiatives agreed for the Reports on meetings with investors year.
Also at each meeting a detailed report from the Managing Director on the Advisers activities is presented.
Typically this Presents investment opportunities for Board approval report will cover: Finance Director the state of the healthcare property sector and the wider Responsible for the preparation and integrity property market: offinancialreporting the Groups acquisition and development pipeline: Implements financing and capital structure determined bythe Board current project management initiatives: Responsible for day-to-day treasury management progress on rent reviews across the portfolio: Company Secretary property management issues: Assists the Chairman in organising induction programmes updates on discussions with key stakeholders: and ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access updates on the business and economic environment, toBoard papers and information including matters relating to the NHS: and Advises the Board on corporate governance matters a review of key portfolio statistics.
Ensures regulatory compliance by the Company Board activities The Board regularly reviews the strategic investment and financing options available to the Group, as well as developments ingovernment policy towards the primary health sector generally, during the scheduled meetings held during the year.
Key areas considered by the Board during the year in addition to matters reviewed and reported on at each meeting were: February April June Approval of proposals for the Consideration of results Approval of proposal to forward acquisition ofMoredon Medical ofcapitalraising fundand acquire Bray Primary Centre, Swindon, UK CareCentre, Ireland Approval of proposal to acquire the Approval of purchase of land for Mountmellick Primary Healthcare Consideration and approval future asset management activity Centre, Ireland ofproposals forcrime and cyberinsurance Approval of preliminary statement Consideration of performance of the Adviser following review by Adviser Approval of Annual Report Engagement Committee andNotice ofAGM Approval of terms for a new facility withSantander Review of GDPR preparedness and approval of revised privacy policy 46 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information In addition, in connection with the proposed merger with ofthe Advisers management team regularly attend meetings MedicX, the Board established a Special Project Committee of the Board and have developed a strong understanding of the consisting of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Boards approach and culture.
In addition to the regularly scheduled Managing Director and the Finance Director to lead the meeting there were several additional meetings held at short transaction and the Board had several adhoc meetings notice during the year including in connection with the approval duringthe year inconnection with the merger.
of the placing, open offer and offer for subscription of new Ordinary Shares in the Company and associated prospectus In addition, the Finance Director reports on the latest quarterly and other documentation that completed in April 2018. management accounts for the Group and provides an update of the Groups financing resources and requirements for consideration On rare occasions that a Director is unable to attend a meeting and discussion and compliance with the Groups financing due to unavoidable business interests, separate discussions are covenants.
He also reports on the activities of the Groups held with, or comments were sought by, the Chairman on all competitors and the performance of the Group on key matters of relevance.
performance metrics compared with its competitors.
During 2019, it is again intended that at least one of the meetings of the Board will be held away from the Companys registered Culture and values office and devoted to consideration of the Groups strategy.
The Chairman fosters the culture and values of the Board In addition to the Board meetings held during the year, the whichinvolves a willingness to take considered risk to achieve members of the Board are regularly in contact for consultation the Companys strategic goals, within an open and respectful between meetings by email or by telephone.
environment that encourages constructive challenge and debate.
This culture permeates through into the Advisers organisation During the year, the Chairman and the other Non-executives meet through the close interaction of the Managing Director and the periodically in the Adviser Engagement Committee and otherwise Finance Director with staff at the Adviser in day-to-day activities.
to discuss issues in the absence of the Executive Directors.
In this way, the Board agreed upon approaches and processes are well understood and adhered to.
Further senior members July September November Approval of purchase of three Strategy discussions Consideration of revised UK medicalcentres in Ireland through Corporate Governance Code Approval of purchase of Maple JelliaHoldings Limited &Elm Court, Wansbeck General Approval of the rolling three-year Consideration of proposal to purchase Hospital, Ashington business plan Maple & Elm Court, Wansbeck Consideration of the method for Consideration of viability General Hospital, Ashington conducting Board evaluation assessment for the proposed Approval of interim statement viability statement Approval of revised whistleblowing andupdated anti-slavery policies Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 47 Corporate governance report continued Culture and values continued Details of the attendance of each of the Directors who served during the year are set out below: Adviser Audit Nomination Engagement Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Director total in year 6 total in year 3 total in year 2 total in year 4 total in year 2 Steven Owen 6 3 2 4 2 Harry Hyman 6 Richard Howell 6 Nick Wiles 6 3 2 4 2 Geraldine Kennell 6 3 2 4 2 1 Dr Stephen Kell 5 2 1 3 1 1 Ian Krieger 5 2 1 3 1 1 Peter Cole 4 2 1 2 1 2 Alun Jones 2 1 1 1 1 2 Dr Ian Rutter 2 1 1 1 1 2 Mark Creedy 2 1 1 1 1 1 Ian Krieger and Dr Stephen Kell were appointed as Directors in February 2018 and Peter Cole was appointed in May 2018 and have attended all Board andCommittee meetings since their appointment.
2 Alun Jones, Dr Ian Rutter and Mark Creedy all resigned as Directors from the conclusion of the 2018 AGM in April 2018.
Strategy day As in previous years, the Board held an annual off-site strategy meeting.
This year the meeting was held in Berkshire in September.
The strategy of the business is at the core of the Boards activities during the year and the strategy event provides the Board with an opportunity to focus on the development of the Groups strategy and reflect on the future direction of the business in an environment outside the boardroom.
It is also an opportunity to review progress to date against the strategy.
In preparation for the strategy meeting the Board received a background reading pack that included a review of the primary care property market and of developments within the NHS and the HSE impacting on the delivery of primary care.
In particular, the papers included a review of progress achieved in developing integrated care systems ICS and the development of sustainability and transformation partnerships across the NHS, together with an evaluation of progress against the Groups objective of developing a portfolio of initially around 150 million in Ireland.
The materials also included papers on potential financing strategies to achieve the Groups objectives.
The meeting was followed by the opportunity to visit one of the Groups properties located in Newbury, tenanted by a doctors surgery and pharmacy, where proposals have been submitted to the local Clinical Commissioning Group CCG for the expansion of the surgery to cater for the increasing demand from local population growth, with a particular regard to the location of a new care home immediately adjacent to the site.
The current proposal is to create a ground floor extension 154 sqm at the rear of the premises, creating a net gain of five clinical rooms and additional records storage.
A longer lease on the enlarged centre will also beentered into upon completion of the development.
To be effective as a Board member itisessential to have a thorough induction process.
My induction has enabled me to make a meaningful contribution to the Board and gain a sound understanding of the business.
Dr Stephen Kell OBE, Non-executive Director 48 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Effectiveness In addition, Mr Krieger and Dr Kell had a days visit to theCompanys facilities in Milton Keynes and Toddington.
Board induction and training Details of the sites visited are as follows: The Code provides that all Directors should receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
On joining Name Operations Insights gained the Board each of Mr Krieger, Dr Kell and Mr Cole were provided Central Milton A large GP practice, Range of primary with a tailored induction programme delivered bythe Company Keynes Medical a dental practice, a care and health Secretary and designed to ensure that they obtained a Centre physiotherapist and services housed comprehensive picture of the Companys operations and the a pharmacy Boards processes.
Milton Keynes A large GP Asset management Village Practice practice, NHSPS project on site The induction process for the new Non-executive Directors involved the following elements: anda pharmacy toallow increase in patient list to20,000 Toddington GP practice Completed asset Meetings with the Chairman and other Boardmembers Medical Centre andapharmacy management project bringing a new pharmacy to site Meetings with the Managing Director The training needs of each Director are reviewed by the andFinanceDirector Chairman.
Directors are able to receive training or additional information on any specific subject pertinent to their role as a Director that they request or require.
The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the induction of new Directors and Full supporting pack of relevant materials to giveinsight with assisting in the ongoing training and development of all into strategy, structure and operations, as well as its Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services governance framework, policies andprocedures of the Company Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense should this be required.
Meeting with the Companys advisers, including the Board evaluation auditor and brokers During the year, the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees was conducted by means of a questionnaire drawn up by the Company Secretary and the Chairman in the light of the Financial Reporting Councils 2018 Guidance on Board Effectiveness.
The Meetings with senior members of the Advisers team at Chairman conducted an evaluation of the performance of each Greener House of the individual Directors as a separate exercise.
A separate questionnaire was sent to members of the Audit Committee to evaluate the performance of that committee as detailed in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 52 to 54.
Given the recent changes in the composition of the Board, it Site visits was considered that it would not be appropriate to undertake an externally led review at this time, but to consider doing so inthe future when all Directors will have gained sufficient The programme was tailored to reflect each individual experience of the culture and processes of the PHP boardroom.
Non-executive Directors background, experience and knowledge and designed for their specific needs.
Mr Krieger and Mr Cole received additional papers giving thembackground information on the policy framework for primary health in the UK and Ireland, and Dr Kell attended a session with the Companys external lawyers to give him a more detailed understanding of a directors duties andthe regulatory framework in which the Company operates as alisted company.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 49 Corporate governance report continued Board evaluation continued The evaluation process which was followed in the year is illustrated below: September October November Questionnaire circulated Questionnaire completed All responses compiled toallDirectors and returned to the anonymously by the Company Company Secretary Secretary, presented to the Chair, discussed with the Board and actions agreed Overall, the results of the questionnaires reflected well on the Board.
Its members are seen as being engaged and committed andable to raise challenge openly while the culture remains open, respectful and constructive.
Details of the outcomes of the 2017 evaluation and the 2018 evaluation, as well as the actions taken in response to the 2017 evaluation are set out below: 2017 evaluation outcomes Actions 2018 evaluation outcomes Create more opportunities to discuss Strategy discussion included in each Continued improvement of Board andevaluate strategy Boardagenda succession processes Ensure succession planning strengthens New NED recruitment included addition Extend opportunities for training experience in property investment ofPeter Cole and Ian Krieger with ofNon-executive Directors relevantsector expertise Improve presentation of key metrics Board papers include at a glance Consider enhancement of Board inBoard reports graphics for KPIs evaluation processes The Board intends to review the implementation of these recommendations as part of its evaluation process in 2019 and will report on progress in next years Annual Report.
In addition to the formal Board evaluation, Nick Wiles, the Senior Independent Non-executive Director conducted an evaluation ofthe performance of the Chairman using a questionnaire tailored to specific responsibilities of a chairman of a listed company.
Nick Wiles also followed up to discuss the findings of the survey regarding the Chairmans performance with the individual Directors and the results were fed back to the Company Secretary.
Commitment The letters of appointment for Non-executive Directors set out the time commitment expected to be necessary to perform their duties.
All Directors are aware of the need to allocate sufficient time to the Company in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Directors must notify the Chairman when they take on any additional responsibilities or external appointments and it is their responsibility to ensure that such appointments will not prevent them meeting their time commitments discussed above.
The Company provides the Non-executive Directors with appropriate support and facilities for the consideration of the Companys strategy and performance, and a dialogue with the Chairman is encouraged so that any issues regarding time pressures or conflicting commitments are addressed appropriately.
50 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Information and support The Company Secretary maintains a register of approved conflicts of interest through this process.
In certain circumstances the The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good conflicted Directors may be required to absent themselves while andtimely information flows within the Board and its such matters are being discussed.
No such situations arose in 2018.
Committees andbetween the senior management and theNon-executive Directors.
The Board has an annual process of formally reviewing conflicts disclosed, and the authorisations given including such conditions The Board uses a web-based system which provides ready as the Board may determine in each case.
Any conflicts or access to Board papers and materials.
Prior to each Board potential conflicts considered by the Board andany authorisations meeting the Directors receive through this system the agenda given are recorded in the Board minutes andinthe register and supporting papers to ensure that they have all the latest referred to above.
and relevant information in advance of the meeting.
During the year, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary have Shareholders worked on improving the clarity and focus of papers in the Board papers, to reduce the overall volume of the Board papers and Working together with its brokers and communications to make them easier for Directors to monitor progress against adviser, the Managing Director and Finance Director have key strategic objectives and to form a more useful tool for regular meetings with institutional investors, analysts and the discussion and decision making.
financial press throughout the year.
Annual and Interim Reports are presented to formal meetings of analysts and trading updates After each Board meeting, the Company Secretary operates a are widely distributed to these and other parties who may have comprehensive follow-up procedure to ensure that actions are an interest in the Groups performance.
completed as agreed by the Board.
Following the increase in the size of the Companys Irish Conflicts portfolio toover 100 million, the Company held an investor day in Ireland for analysts and investors, which showcased The Board has adopted a formal procedure under which therecently acquired assets in the Dublin area and the Directors must notify the Chairman of any potential conflicts.
The Chairman then decides whether a conflict exists and recommends its authorisation by the Board, where appropriate.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 51
