Audit Committee report Responsibilities The Committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
These duties include: monitoring the integrity of the Groups annual and interim Members of the Audit Committee financial statements, ensuring they are fair, balanced and theCommittee understandable and reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained therein: Number of meetings monitoring the Groups statutory audit and interim review: and attendance Member while in post reviewing the Groups systems of financial control and risk Ian Krieger incoming Chairman 2 2 management and receiving reports from the Advisers own Risk Committee: Steven Owen outgoing Chairman 3 3 Geraldine Kennell 3 3 reviewing the Going Concern and Viability Statements Nick Wiles 3 3 presented in the Annual Report and to report to the Board on its opinion on those statements: Peter Cole incoming member 2 2 Dr Stephen Kell incoming member 2 2 making recommendations to the Board on the appointment Alun Jones outgoing member 1 1 and dismissal of the external auditor and approving their Mark Creedy outgoing member 1 1 remuneration and terms of engagement: monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence, Additional attendees invited to attend meetings as appropriate objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional Harry Hyman Managing Director and regulatory requirements: Richard Howell Finance Director Deloitte LLP independent external auditor considering the need for an internal audit function: and Dr Ian Rutter Non-executive Director Andrew Herd Chair of the Advisers Risk Committee undertaking an evaluation of the performance of the Committee.
Dan Whitby Group Financial Controller There are arrangements in place whereby employees of the Adviser may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible Dear shareholder, improprieties in matters of financial reporting amongst other I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman of the things.
The Committee ensures that the Adviser has in place Audit Committee and am happy to confirm that we remain arrangements for the proportionate and independent committed to achieving high standards of governance and investigation of such matters.
therefore the Committee has adopted the additional requirements of the Corporate Governance Code the Code as regards Report on the Committees activities during the year audit committees.
Steven Owen stood down from the Committee During the period the Committee met three times for the reasons set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
anddischarged its responsibilities by: Relevant skills and experience reviewing the Groups draft annual report and financial As Chairman, in conjunction with the Nominations Committee, statements and its draft interim results statement prior to discussion and approval by the Board, and reviewing the Ireview on an annual basis the composition of the Committee to ensure that it is comprised of members with skills and external auditors reports thereon: competences relevant to the primary care real estate sector advising the Board on whether the draft annual report and and recent and relevant financial experience.
The biographies financial statements and draft interim results statement are fair, of all the members of the Committee are on pages 38 to 40 balanced and understandable and provides the information and show that the Committees experience is wide ranging and necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys satisfies the provisions of the Code in all respects.
The members performance, position, business model and strategy: of the Committee also evaluate the performance of the reviewing the continuing appropriateness of the Groups Committee during the year.
accounting policies including the potential implications of The Committee may invite representatives of the Adviser forthcoming changes in accounting standards for the Group: andother Non-independent Directors to attend the meetings as appropriate.
considering the report of the Advisers Risk Committee onthe principal risk and uncertainties facing the Group: reviewing the auditors plan for the Group audit and approving their terms of engagement and proposed fees: considering the effectiveness and independence of the auditor and recommending to the Board their re-appointment: 52 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information reviewing the Going Concern assumption and Viability Review of risk management and internal control processes Statement and supporting budgets, forecasts and evidence: The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management processes reviewing the whistleblowing and fraud detection policies: and systems of internal control.
considering the need for an internal audit function: and Following its own assessment and the report of the undertaking a performance evaluation process Advisersown Risk Committee and the work it performed fortheCommittee.
onrisk management procedures operated by the Adviser, theCommittee believes that the key risks facing the business Significant issues considered in relation to the have been correctly identified and disclosed in the financialstatements RiskManagement section of the Strategic Report.
During the year, the Committee considered key accounting Key features of the system of internal control include a matters and judgements in respect of the financial statements comprehensive system of budgeting, financial reporting relating to: andbusiness planning, formal documentation procedures and theclose involvement of the Managing Director and Finance Valuation of the property portfolio Director in all aspects of the day-to-day operations.
The scope The key judgement in the financial statements relates and quality of the Advisers systems of internal controls are tothevaluation of the property portfolio.
The Group has monitored and reviewed by the Advisers Risk Committee property assets of 1.5 billion as detailed in the Group andregular monitoring reports are provided to the Board.
As explained in Note 10 to the financial TheCommittee believes that, although robust, the Groups statements, the properties are independently valued andAdvisers systems of internal control are designed to manage, byLambert Smith Hampton in the UK and in Ireland, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups inaccordance with IAS 40 Investment property.
Therefore, the system can provide only Committee reviewed anddiscussed with management and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the Groups valuers the judgements and assumptions made misstatement or loss.
in respect of the property valuation, reviewed the valuers report and the auditors comments thereon, and concluded In reviewing the periodic financial reports of the Group, that the valuation is appropriate.
theCommittee is reliant on the policies and procedures followed by the Adviser to ensure that the records accurately reflect Revenue recognition transactions so as to facilitate the production of consolidated The Committee considered the implication of the adoption financial statements in accordance with International Financial ofIFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers on the Reporting Standards IFRS and other applicable reporting Group Financial Statements from 1 January 2018.
The integrity of the financial reporting and consolidation the Group adopts a policy of recognising the expected uplift processes and the completeness and accuracy offinancial from rent reviews from the date a rent review falls due until information are subject to review by the Audit Committee the date it is settled.
The Committee reviewed the judgements andthe Board.
made in respect of this policy, reviewed past experience of settlements and challenged management as to its continued At the time of reviewing the half-yearly and annual financial appropriateness.
The Committee received confirmation reports, the Audit Committee also receives a report from frommanagement that the policy remained appropriate.
theAdviser to assist the Board in assessing the policies TheCommittee also assessed this matter with the external andprocedures and making the disclosures.
No significant auditor and is satisfied that the policy remains appropriate.
deficiencies in internal control have been identified.
Financing and valuation of financial instruments Financial reporting The Committee considered the implication of the adoption ofIFRS 9: Financial Instruments on the Group Financial The Board is responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
Statements from 1 January 2018 including the appropriateness TheAudit Committee is asked to review the Annual Report of continuing to use hedge accounting, impairment provisioning andconsider whether it is fair, balanced and understandable and of trade receivables and possible adjustments arising from provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess debt modifications.
The Group will continue to apply the the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 and does not In undertaking its assessment, the Committee considered: anticipate a material impact from the adoption of IFRS 9. the systems and controls operated by the Adviser around The Group hedges its exposure to interest rate risk the preparation of the accounts: swapsusing financial instruments.
This is a complex area ofaccounting and accordingly the Committee monitors the procedures included in these to bring relevant information thework of the Adviser and where it feels necessary seeks to the attention of those who prepare the accounts: advice on the Companys compliance withsuch requirements the consistency of the reports: and and evaluations.
The valuation ofthefinancial instruments is undertaken by JCRA, an independent specialist in this area.
whether they are in accordance with the information provided to the Board during the year.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 53 Audit Committee report continued Financial reporting continued at both half year and year end.
Inaddition, the Audit Committee seeks feedback from the Adviser on the effectiveness of the It also considered whether the Annual Report had been audit process.
The Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness writtenin straightforward language, without unnecessary of the auditor and therefore recommends their re-appointment.
repetition of information and that market specific terms and anynon-statutory measures, such as EPRA ratios, had been Deloitte LLP have been the external auditor of PHP since being adequately defined or explained.
appointed in June 2013, which is also the date of the last audit tender.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the The Audit Committee has reviewed the contents of this Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
Sara Tubridy is yearsAnnual Report and financial statements and confirmed the new external audit partner.
tothe Board that, in its view, the report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, auditor on an annual basis.
The Committee conducts a formal business model and strategy.
evaluation process involving the completion of a questionnaire and individual and group discussions, to obtain the views Auditor independence oftheCommittee and appropriate employees of the Adviser.
The Groups policy on the use of its external auditor for non-audit Following the completion of the 2018 year-end audit, the Committee conducted its review and considers that the audit services, which was reviewed during the year, precludes the was appropriately planned and scoped efficiently and effectively external auditor from being engaged to perform valuation, tax or accounting services work.
More broadly, the policy prohibits performed by Deloitte.
The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte the external auditor from performing services where there may continued to perform effectively as the external auditor.
be perceived to be a conflict with their role as external auditor or which may compromise their independence or objectivity.
Audit tender policy The Committee has an established audit tender policy that was Subject to the overriding requirement to ensure independence adopted by the Board on 18 August 2015.
The Audit Committee and objectivity of the external auditor, the Adviser may procure will consider the need for a competitive tender for the role of certain non-audit services from the external auditor up to 25,000 external auditor at least every five years and recommend to the in value.
All other proposed engagements must be submitted to Board if a tender process is felt to be appropriate.
In any event, the Committee for approval prior to engagement.
Details of the a competitive tender will take place at least every ten years.
amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and Areview of the performance of the external auditor is other services are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
The external auditor was engaged for two non-audit assignments The tender process will be administered by the Audit Committee during the year.
These assignments related to the equity raise which will consider whether to seek major investors views on in April 2018 and fees paid to theAdviser, including the Performance the audit firms to be invited to tender and success criteria to Incentive Fee.
The fee for the non-audit assignments was 142,000 be used by the Company in the course of the tender.
The services were deemed to be ancillary to other assurance services provided by the external auditor where using If a tender is conducted as part of a normal tender cycle, the their knowledge of the facts under consideration was seen as incumbent auditor will be invited to participate in the tender being cost effective for the Group.
Their engagement was not unless prohibited due to specific factors such as independence.
deemed to compromise their objectivity and independence as The Audit Committee will make a recommendation to the Board sufficient safeguards were in place.
During the period the external of its preferred appointee.
auditor was engaged to work on the merger with MedicX and a fee of 85,000 was accrued at the year end.
The majority of this Evaluation of the performance of the Audit Committee work was undertaken after theyear end.
The performance of the Committee was assessed by each member Effectiveness of external auditor completing a questionnaire developed by external consultants for audit committees to evaluate their effectiveness.
The Chairman The effectiveness of the audit process is dependent on considered each response and presented the findings in a report appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit to the Committee.
The overall conclusion was that the Committee cycle.
The Committee received from Deloitte LLP a detailed remained effective at meeting its objectives.
audit plan, identifying their assessment of these key risks.
For2018, the primary risks identified were in relation to the Internal audit valuation of the property portfolio and management override ofcontrols.
It is standard practice for the Audit Committee The Audit Committee considers annually the requirement for an toalso meet privately with the external auditor.
internal audit function and the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, having regard to the matters considered The Board takes responsibility for exercising judgement above, has concluded that one is not currently required.
whennecessary in preparing the Annual Report andfinancial statements.
They prepare and review papers provided to the auditor setting out their judgements and approaches taken to Ian Krieger specific items.
The work undertaken bythe auditor in this area Chairman of the Audit Committee to test managements assumptions and estimates is challenged 30 January 2019 by the Audit Committee, which assess the effectiveness of the audit process through the reporting received from Deloitte LLP 54 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018
