55 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Relations with regulators We know that building strong and enduring relationships with our regulators isextremely important.
It influences our strategic thinking as well as enabling usto plan for regulatory change with greater certainty and confidence.
Under the UK regulatory regime, both Moneybarn and, with We view these activities as the start of an ongoing program of effect from November 2018, CCD are fully authorised by the FCA.
change which will further strengthen how we interact with our Vanquis Bank is authorised by the PRA and dual-regulated by theFCA regulators.
While ultimate accountability for managing our regulatory and the PRA.
Both CCD and Moneybarn have approved persons for risk and relationships sits within the divisions, the Groups aim is controlled functions in compliance with the FCAs approved persons tobe akeyinfluencer in the non-standard credit market, helping regime, whilst Vanquis Bank has senior managers for senior manager toshape regulatory thinking while delivering compelling propositions functions in compliance with the Senior Managers and Certification to our customers.
This will be reinforced through implementation Regime SMCR.
During 2019 both Moneybarn and CCD will be ofthe SMCR across the whole of the Group, including enhancements brought into the SMCR as the FCA extend their coverage tosolo to ourregulatory risk operating model.
The regulatory changes which the Group has focused on during As Provident Financial plc is a holding company, there are no theyear have included: approved persons or senior managers at the Group Board level.
Transfer of regulation to the FCA However, in seeking to improve the connection between the divisionsand the Group Board and to provide more effective CCD received full authorisation from the FCA on 9 November 2018 oversight by the Group.
The Group Executive Directors and some following implementation of the home credit recovery plan over the Group non-executive directors undertake roles on the Boards previous 12 months.
Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn received their ofdivisional subsidiaries: as such they carry regulatory approvals change of permission and full authorisation respectively in 2016. specific tothatregulated entity.
As a consequence of: i the disruption to the home credit business We know that building strong and enduring relationships with following the migration to the new operating model in July 2017 and our regulators isextremely important.
It influences our strategic the subsequent implementation of the recovery plan in response thinkingas well as enabling usto plan for regulatory change with tothe disruption: ii the FCAs investigation into Vanquis Banks ROP greater certainty and confidence.
product: and iii the FCAs ongoing investigation into Moneybarn, With this is mind, over the last 12 months the Group and its the Group is subject to enhanced supervision by the FCA as notified divisionshave made excellent progress in dealing proactively by the FCA Watchlist Letter.
The FCA Watchlist Letter requires withseveral legacy regulatory issues.
These include remediation that the Group: i provides the FCA with a draft of an executable overthe Vanquis Bank ROP, redesigning our operating model wind-down plan for the Group and each of the entities within the within home credit, as well as supporting the ongoing regulatory Group: ii successfully executes the recovery plan in home credit: investigation within Moneybarn.
While these have created and iii completes a successful turnaround of CCD so that CCD is  for management, they have also created financially stable and the Group can meet its funding requirements opportunities to rebuild trust and credibility in all aspects to 2020.
Firms placed under enhanced supervision may be required ofourregulatory relationship management.
to provide formal commitments, where appropriate, to the FCA totackle the underlyingconcerns raised by the FCA and the FCA Considering specific feedback from the FCA, we have enhanced our mayalso exercise other wide-ranging powers.
governance arrangements and regulatory responsibilities through a number of specific activities led by Group Risk and approved by Group ExCo and Board.
These include: Introduction of a Group regulatory tracker which provides amoreholistic view of all our regulatory interactions: Enhanced reporting to the Group Board and ExCo of our outstanding regulatory actions and any risks to delivery: and Improved coordination in managing emerging regulatory changethat might materially impact our businesses.
These includeresponding to relevant consultation papers andundertaking point in time regulatory risk assessments, particularly in relation toconduct risk.
56 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Relations with regulators continued FCA review of high-cost credit FCA review of the vehicle finance market On 18 December 2018, the FCA published CP18 43 in respect of In the FCAs Business Plan for 2017 18 the FCA stated that it was its review of high-cost credit, including final rules and guidance in looking at the motor finance market to ensure that it works well and respect of home-collected credit.
The rules introduce a package to assess whether consumers are at risk of harm.
The FCA published of reforms to raise standards in disclosure and sales practices to an update on this work on 15 March 2018 and then published its final prevent home credit firms from offering new loans or refinancing findings on 4 March 2019.
The FCAs final findings indicated that they existing loans during home visits without the customer specifically have concerns regarding four areas of the motor finance market: requesting it.
The changes made by CCD to the UK home credit i Commission arrangements, in particular non-flat rate structures: operating model over the last 18 months, in particular the recording ii Sufficient, timely and transparent information, mainly in respect of all sales interactions with customers, means that the business of broker practice and information about DIC type commission willbe able to evidence compliance with the revised requirements arrangements: iii Lender controls in respect of the oversight of bythe deadline of 19 March 2019. dealers and brokers: and iv Affordability assessments, whereby the FCA reference the additional clarity given in PS18 19 last year FCA credit card market study around affordability checks, and the expectation that all lenders haveimplemented the appropriate additional practices.
In February 2018, the FCA published PS18 4 setting out its final policy Moneybarn has flat fee commission structures and has never rules in respect of persistent debt and earlier intervention remedies given discretion to brokers in setting the interest or commission from its Credit Card Market Study.
The overall objective of the package levels.
Customers are made aware of the existence of a payment of remedies is to reduce the number of customers in problem credit of commission in Moneybarns pre-contractual paperwork that card debt and put borrowers in greater control oftheir borrowing.
all brokers must provide to the customer and evidence that the In particular, the rules require credit card firms to undertake separate customer has received it.
Moneybarn has an active physical measures in respect of customers defined asbeing in persistent debt.
audit programme for all of its brokers and was the first in the The FCA define persistent debt as where, over a period of 18 months, market tohave such an audit process in place.
Like all of the a customer pays more in interest, fees and charges than they have groups otherbusinesses, Moneybarn has made all necessary repaid of the principal.
At 18 months, firms are required to prompt changes toits processes required by PS18 19 in advance of the customers in persistent debt to change their repayment behaviour if 1 November2018 deadline.
At 27 months firms are required to send another reminder if payments indicate a customer is still likely to be in Irish Consumer Credit Bill persistent debt at the 36 month point.
Customers need to be made aware that, if they do not change their repayment behaviour, their onacaponmoneylenders rates card may be suspended, which may be reported to credit reference In November 2018, a report entitled: Interest Rate Restrictions agencies.
The customer should also get contact details for debt advice on Credit for Low-income Borrowers was published by the Social services.
At 36 months firms need to intervene again if a customer Finance Foundation, an Irish government funded body set up in remains in persistent debt.
Firms need to help the customer by 2007 to provide funding for community organisations and social proposing ways of repaying more quickly over a reasonable period, enterprises.
The report was part-funded by the Central Bank of usually between 3 and 4 years.
Ireland and called for a rate-cap to be introduced on interest and The proposals in PS 18 4 came into force on 1 March 2018 and firms other charges and for the development of the credit union sector had 6 months to be fully compliant.
Vanquis Bank increased its toprovide alternative sources of credit for moneylending customers.
minimum payment rates in the second half of 2018 and will introduce Following publication of the report, a private members bill which further measures, such as recommended payments, to encourage seeks to cap moneylenders rates at 36% APR was then debated increased monthly repayments in early 2019. in the Irish Parliament.
The draft bill then passed its second reading and will now enter the Finance Committee stage.
No date FCA review of creditworthiness in consumer credit for the Finance Committee hearing has yet been published.
In July 2018, the FCA published its policy statement CP18 19 Private members bills are generally voted down by the Irish entitled Assessing creditworthiness in consumer credit in which Government although the Irish Governments position is not the FCA set out the changes to its existing rules and guidance in clearinthe case of this private members bill.
The FCA has amended its rules and guidance with regards The Groups operations in the Republic of Ireland are in to creditworthiness which the FCA stated comprises both credit respect of the home credit business which has approximately risk and affordability and in particular, the rules introduce a new 65,000 customers.
explicit definition of affordability risk, in which the FCA sets out the factors to be considered by firms when assessing if credit is likely tobe affordable for the borrower.
The rules require a more detailed creditworthiness assessment including affordability at the outset.
In particular, this applies to Vanquis Bank in respect of all new non-prime credit card customers and for significant individual orcumulative credit line increases thereafter.
The final rules and guidance from PS18 19 came into effect on 1 November 2018.
All of the Groups businesses have taken the necessary measures to meet the affordability principles arising fromthis review.
