132 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Group Risk Committee I am pleased to present the report of the Group Risk Committee GRC whichhasreplaced the Risk Advisory Committee, established by the previous management.
Asit is clearly unacceptable that Group risk was demoted to anadvisory committee, the new GRC is a sub-committee of the Board and positive and significant developments have taken place in risk management during the year.
Angela Knight Group Risk Committee Chairman Members Current members Andrea Blance Angela Knight Secretary: Kenneth Mullen Chairman from 31 July 2018 Other members during the year Paul Hewitt member from 31 July 2018 Stuart Sinclair ElizabethChambers Chairman until 21 September 2018 member from 31 July 2018 Malcolm Le May John Straw Member until 1 February 2018 133 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance During the year a Group-wide Conduct Risk Assessment was Annual statement of the Group RiskCommittee completed and this, together with an ongoing action plan, has I would like to commence by thanking Stuart Sinclair for his valuable been submitted to the FCA.
Our Divisions operate in a highly contribution during his tenure as the GRC Chairman, and I welcome regulated environment with very specific FCA focus, and this Paul Hewitt and ElizabethChambers to the Committee, who bring riskassessment gave us a much clearer view on our Group awealth of valuable experience to the GRC.
conduct profile and areas requiring continuing focus.
As it was stated last year that the risk frameworks across the Within the Divisions, each management team has been Group had not been sufficiently effective, I am pleased to report continuingto develop their individual frameworks with good onsignificant progress during the year.
At the heart of this progress progress being made.
Vanquis Bank has undertaken a complete is the programme to develop and strengthen our governance and governance review and CCD have responded to the FCA related risk frameworks and the way in which the Group oversees the governance and control questions sufficiently to warrant the Divisional arrangements.
More detail on recent developments is covered later in this report, These are positive steps in improving the way in which we manage but in summary the following changes have been made during risk and even in my short tenure I can see we have moved a long the year: wayforward with a much more effective framework in place, with The Board has completely reviewed its wider corporate better coordination and integration in relation to how we work across governance arrangements and set out a clear framework the Group as a whole.
There is more to be done and in particular for howthe Group and the Divisions will operate in future.
in embedding the new frameworks, enhancing our reporting even The Board are driving a new customer focused culture across further and aligning the GRC meetings and agendas directly to the Group, aspreviously announced, the Board is finalising the changing risk profile.
My key areas of focus during 2019 will plans to establishacustomer, culture and ethics committee, betobuild on the progress made, consider whether further Group which isintended to be a committee of the Board and would Risk integration steps might be useful, within regulatory constraints, bechairedby ElizabethChambers.
and to ensure the Committee stays focussed on key risks and takes direct action.
This will ensure we have a supportive risk culture Under this new governance framework, the GRC has been underpinning the Group as a whole.
re-designed to focus on effective oversight of the Group, bring The Group Risk Frameworks and supporting Divisional frameworks a greater challenge to strategic risk issues, underpin a customer have been significantly enhanced.
From a start point last year focused viewpoint and establish forward looking risk identification.
wherethere was a demonstrable need for improvement, the Group The GRC membership has been strengthened following is now in a position where it has a better understanding of all risks theappointments of new non-executive directors with more and greater transparency of Divisional Risks, leading to a much directand relevant industry experience, including my own more coordinated and well-orchestrated approach to the overall appointment as Chairman with effect from July.
management of risk across the Group.
As Chairman, I intend to A new Group Risk Appetite framework was approved by the buildon this improving position and further embed and enhance Boardwhich presents a clearer picture of the Groups aggregate theexcellent work done in this regard throughout the year.
risk profile, enabling the Board to set an overall risk appetite attheappropriate level.
Composition of the Committee This Group Risk Appetite framework is supported by new and The membership of the Committee was updated in the year, enhanced Group level risk policies, also approved by the Board.
to involve Paul Hewitt and ElizabethChambers.
I took over the The management information and reporting in support of the Chairmanship from Stuart Sinclair following my appointment on RiskAppetite Framework has been enhanced and focusses 31 July 2018 and details of my biography are set out on page 97. onkeyrisks facing the Group, both current and forward looking, Other mandatory attendees at the Committee meetings in 2018, as and includes and monitors the mitigating actions being taken.
reflected in the terms of reference were: the Chief Executive Officer, A Cross Divisional Risk forum has been created which meets Malcolm Le May formerly a member until 1 February 2018 : the monthly involving Divisional CROs, the Group Interim CRO, Chief Financial Officer, Simon Thomas from 3 December 2018 : the theGroup Interim Chief Internal Auditor and I also attend this former Group Finance Director, Andrew Fisher up to 3 December asChairman of GRC.
This forum provides an excellent mechanism 2018 : the Group Chief Strategy Officer, David Merrett: the Group forgiving greater transparency on Divisional risks, a better Chief Auditor, Shaun TempleBrown from 17 April 2018 : and the and clearer articulation of aggregate Group level risks, a clear managing directors and Chief Risk Officers of each Division until escalation route for emerging issues and an empowered and 21 September 2018 to discuss, inter alia, conduct risk and related effective risk team, sharing forward looking risk views.
The Interim Group CRO is also required to beinattendance at all meetings.
I have refocussed the attendee listofthe Committee post my appointment and the Committee ToRswere updated accordingly.
134 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Group Risk Committee continued Key activities in 2018 Priorities for 2019 Establishing and monitoring the Group wide Risk Framework Building on strong progress made during 2018, the GRC will and ensuring that it operates consistently with those in place focus on a programme of continual improvement in the way atdivisional levels.
The current interim Group CRO has agreed to remain in role until the end of the first Quarter Developing a new Risk Appetite Framework, so presenting 2019, by which time we expect to have progressed a new full aclearer picture of the Groups aggregate risk profile.
This will ensure a continuing risk focus Enhancing of management information and reporting, and also the opportunity to provide for effective handover insupport of the Risk Appetite Framework.
Developing and establishing new and enhanced governance To support the Board in developing its new customer centric documents and policies.
approach and to help develop the target culture, supported Completion of a Group wide Conduct Risk assessment byan appropriate risk infrastructure.
andmonitoring of an ongoing action plan that has been To on-board the new permanent Group CRO and ensure submitted to the FCA.
aneffective handover from the current interim.
Strengthening the Group Risk Committee membership To review and consider the Group Risk operating model throughthe appointment of new non-executive directors.
anddetermine where and how greater integration subject Creation of a Cross Divisional Risk Forum, to provide toregulatory constraints might provide opportunities to amechanism for the review of divisional risks and further enhance risk coverage, expertise and co-ordination.
aclearescalation route for emerging issues.
To embed and enhance the risk frameworks and associatedreporting.
To undertake reviews of key elements of our Group RiskAppetite and ensure these remain appropriate given achangingenvironment.
To complete the actions set out for the Group as part of the Conduct Risk Assessment.
To maintain a forward looking focus and ensure the Group is quick to identify emerging issues and address them with responsive action plans.
Carrying out an assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, Role of the Committee: including those that have the potential to impact its strategy and In an organisation where a non-regulated Group parent company culture, business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: owns three individually regulated operating entities, the GRC has Reviewing the Groups capability to identify and manage new risk a slightly different set of requirements when compared to a more types, and keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups standard structure where all resources are centralised.
The primary internal control and risk management systems in conjunction role of the GRC is therefore to make sure that there is an effective withthe Audit Committee: Group wide risk framework which works consistently with those Reviewing the Groups management of current and forwardinplace at Divisional level, with strategic as well as operational looking risk exposures: riskseffectively managed.
Reviewing the Groups business continuity plans: The GRCs principal areas of responsibility are as follows: Notifying the Board of any changes in the status and control Understanding the Boards strategy, desired culture and ofrisks: and directionand identifying the key strategic risks which are Reviewing and approving: i the Internal Capital Adequacy relevantto the capability to deliver on these: Assessment Process ICAAP, including the stress testing Endorsing an overall risk appetite and recommending it to the and capital allocation approach: ii the Internal Liquidity Board for approval: Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP : and iii the recovery Monitoring the effectiveness of the Divisions in establishing and resolutionplan RRP adopted by Vanquis Bank on and maintaining risk management frameworks, policies anindividual and consolidated basis for submission to the and procedures: Boardforfinal approval.
135 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance From an internal controls perspective, the Group operates Allocation of time athreelines of defence model of risk management and control.
1 Setting Group risk management 19% The first line of defence consists of operational identification, 1 6 2 Setting overall risk appetite 12% assessment and management of risk.
Line management in each Division or function own the risks and it is the risk owners who 3 Assessing outcomes against risk appetite 19% 2 are accountable within the Group for the ongoing assessment 5 4 Assessing risk management effectiveness 21% andmanagement of these risks as part of day to day controls.
3 5 Overseeing management actions 19% The second line of defence consists of independent review and 4 challenge of first line actions against established risk appetites.
6 Approving ICAAP, ILAAP and RRP 10% In each Division, risk and compliance functions constitute the secondline of defence and are responsible for adherence At each meeting, the Committee: toriskappetites and providing independent review and Reviewed and confirmed the overall risk management status challengetothe first line.
ofthe Group: The third line of defence consists of independent assurance.
Reviewed and confirmed the key Group risks: Group and Divisional Internal Audit functions constitute the third lineof defence and are responsible for providing independent Reviewed and confirmed the risk appetite status across assurance in connection with the identification, assessment and the Group: management of risk and maintenance of appropriate controls.
Reviewed and accepted the quarterly Group Internal Audit The work of the Internal Audit teams is subject to review by the opinionon risk management reporting: and Reviewed minutes AuditCommittee established by the Board.
Each of the Divisions have established Risk and Control SelfStatement on internal controls Assessment processes within the first line.
Through this approach, allkey controls are identified, evaluated and monitored In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, section by line management as part of day to day activities.
The second C. 2: Risk Management and Internal Control provisions C. 2.1 and lineDivisional Risk teams support these processes through 2.3, the Group Board has a responsibility to maintain sound risk reviewand challenge, and Internal Audit evaluate the effectiveness management and internal control systems.
With improvements of key controls as part of their regular audit programme during the to risk and internal control frameworks made during the year, the year.
Any key issues emerging from second or third line reviews Directors can confirm that key risks have been robustly assessed, arehighlighted and tracked through to resolution.
All Divisions and that the Companys Risk Management and Internal Control havecontinued to enhance these internal control frameworks systems are effective.
duringthe year, with greater focus on end to end processes To manage risk and ensure compliance with regulatory obligations ensuringa better articulation of risks and controls.
the Board sets the overall risk appetites of the Group and seeks to ensure that the Divisions and corporate centre have designed, implemented and maintained effective and appropriate risk Angela Knight appetites, risk management frameworks and processes of their Group Risk Committee Chairman own, consistent with those set by the Group.
The Divisions have 13 March 2019 day-to-day responsibility for risk management and through the Group Risk function the key risks are aggregated and closely monitored at Group Risk Committee.
Each Division also has a three lines of defence approach, with second line oversight coming from Divisional CROs and their teams, supported further by Internal Audit who provide third line independent review of the risk frameworks.
136 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Group Risk Committee continued Committee calendar in 2018 January Risk Advisory May October Committee RAC Reviewed and considered the output Reviewed and considered a further from the risk review of Vanquis Bank: update in relation to cyber risk across Reviewed and approved the new the Group: future structure and organisation Reviewed and discussed the IT, data ofthe Committee including its andcyber security risks across the Received an update on the Termsof Reference: Group, agreeing new reporting: implementation of FCA PS18 19 inrelation to affordability: Considered the results of the Received an update on the performance effectiveness review: Group governance and risk Received an update on the Vanquis development programme: BankROP refund programme: Received an update on the state Reviewed progress with the ofthenation report: Reviewed and considered in detail theGroup conduct risk assessment: implementation of the Senior Reviewed the Risk Management Managers& Certification Regime Framework and Risk Appetite Received an update on Group withinMoneybarn and CCD: review paper: Treasury risk: Reviewed and considered in Received an update on cyber Further reviewed the outputs from detail theGroup governance securitypriorities and costings: and theCCD Credit Deep Dive Review: andrisk development programme Received an update on the General Reviewed and endorsed the ICAAP documentation including the DataProtection Regulation roll out approach and methodology, prior GroupRiskAppetite Framework: acrossthe Group.
toapproval by the Board: and Received an update in relation to IT, Reviewed and approved the ILAAP March dataand cyber security risk: and forVanquis Bank.
Reviewed and approved the Reviewed and endorsed the ICAAP September VanquisBank RRP approach.
approach and methodology, prior toapproval by the Board: Received initial perception feedback Reviewed and approved the ILAAP fromthe newly appointed Chairman: proposal for Vanquis Bank: Further reviewed the Vanquis Bank Reviewed and considered the Group Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP conduct & regulatory compliance priorto approval by the Board: report, including the new Regulatory Received an update on Treating Interactions Tracker: Customers Fairly TCF principles and Reviewed the outputs of the CCD agreed the formation of a common CreditDeep Dive Review: reporting platform: Received an update on the risk and Received an update on progress withthe embedding of the General governance development programme: DataProtection Regulation across Reviewed and approved the Committees the Group: revised Terms of Reference: Received an update on Group Received an update on IT, data and Treasuryrisk: and cybersecurity risks and issues: and Reviewed and endorsed the Vanquis Reviewed an update on the Governance and Risk Development Plan.
Bank ICAAP for submission to the Vanquis Bank Board for approval and the Consolidated ICAAP to the Board for approval.
