120 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Nomination Committee report Over the last year, the Nomination Committee  following  in2018 Patrick Snowball Chairman Members Current members Other members during the year Patrick Snowball Malcolm Le May Chairman from 21 September 2018 Chairman until 1 February 2018 Andrea Blance Stuart Sinclair ElizabethChambers Chairman from 1 February to 21 September 2018 Member from 31 July 2018 Rob Anderson John Straw Member from 2 March 2009 until 11 December 2018 Paul Hewitt David Sear Member from 31 July 2018 Member from 1 March 2017 until 26 January 2018 Angela Knight Member from 31 July 2018 Secretary: Kenneth Mullen 121 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Annual statement by the chairman Composition of the Committee  The Nomination Committee has had a number of changes to its composition during 2018, with the Chairman having changed three On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present to you a report times from Malcolm Le May who was chairman in his capacity on the work of the Nomination Committee during 2018, a year asInterim Executive Chairman until 1 February 2018, followed by ofsignificant transformation for the Group.
Stuart Sinclair until 21 September 2018 as part of his appointment As reported last year, the Board and Nomination Committee as Interim Chairman, and finally to Patrick Snowball as the current reviewed the composition of the Board and identified the need non-executive Chairman.
It has also been refreshed following the tostrengthen it following the turnover of individuals during the appointment of three new non-executive directors.
Success of the Group begins at the top, with thereare now seven members of the Committee.
Further details astrong Board and senior management team at both Group onthe Board changes can be found on pages 114. anddivisional level.
All non-executive directors are members of the Nomination The primary focus of the Nomination Committee and the Board Committee and the CEO attends meetings by invitation only.
has been on the recruitment of new Board members as well as The roleof the CEO as an attendee is to provide a better strengthening the senior management teams across the Group.
understanding of the strategic issues facing the Group and the During 2018, I have joined the Board as Chairman as well as three current skills and experience of the senior management teams additional non-executive directors.
in the Divisions and inthe corporate office.
During 2018, the To find the most suitable candidates for the Board, the Committee Committee was particularly focused on the recruitment of both makes a determination on the skills and experience required to align the non-executive Chairman and the non-executive directors.
the Boards composition with the Groups strategic goals, whilst also Further information on the recruitment process can be found maintaining an appropriate level of diversity.
In that regard, I am onpage 123. pleased to report that the Board has 38% female representation.
Role of the Committee: The Committee and the Board also reviewed the composition, skillsand membership of the Board committees, including the The primary function of the Committee is to monitor the balance Nomination Committee, to ensure it has the right individuals ofskills and experience on the Board and its committees and onallitscommittees following the recent recruitments.
More detail toensure that the Board comprises individuals with the necessary onthe composition of the Committee can be found on the right, skills, knowledge, experience and diversity to ensure it is effective.
and on the Board recruitment process undertaken during 2018 The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the onpage 123.
The Committee has also focused on succession planning for In order to fulfil its role, the Committee: thesenior management team by strengthening the Groups regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including executive team as part of the wider governance review.
We have skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board, and secured a number of senior management appointments, including makes recommendations to the Board for any changes to its a Group HR Director, Group Chief Information Officer and a Group composition to ensure it remains appropriately refreshed: Data Protection Officer, and have made a number of key interim Group senior management appointments with the aim of creating fully considers the succession planning requirements for permanent positions during 2019.
Further details on succession directors and the senior management teams in the Divisions planning can be found on page 123. and the corporate office, taking into account the challenges andopportunities facing the Company, and the skills and We have, as a Committee, also had oversight of the applicable expertiseneeded on the Board, in the Divisions and in the aspects of the 2018 Code which is effective for financial years corporate office inthe future: beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
During 2019, we will continue to have oversight of the changes needed to ensure compliance with keeps under review the leadership needs of the Group, the 2018 Code where relevant to the Committee.
The Committee toensureitremains competitive in the marketplace: approved its new terms of reference and agenda planner in January evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and 2019 which have been specifically reviewed and updated to reflect diversityon the Board before any appointments are made and the 2018 Code and its requirements.
It also approved a number prepares adescription of the role and identifies the capabilities of recommended changes to its processes and documentation required foraparticular appointment.
The Committee considers including establishing a formal board skills matrix.
We also candidates on merit and against objective criteria with due requestedthat the senior management team, with Group HR regardto the benefits of diversity, including gender: support, refocus on diversity during 2019, taking into account identifies and nominates to the Board candidates to fill the 2018 Code, the voluntary recommendations of the Hampton Boardvacancies: and Alexander, Parker andDavies reviews, as well as the Groups periodically reviews and considers the performance and widerstrategy, objectivesand remuneration.
effectiveness of the Committee through the results of the Boardand committee performance evaluation process.
122 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Nomination Committee report continued Key Achievements for 2018 Priorities for 2019 The appointment of Malcolm Le May as Chief Executive Officer.
Continue the search to appoint a permanent Group Chief Risk Officer.
The appointment of Patrick Snowball as non-executive Chairman, providing effective leadership and direction for the Board.
Continue to work towards having a better mix of diversity andskills by achieving the target of 33% female representation The appointment of ElizabethChambers, Paul Hewitt and on its Executive Committee and its direct reports as well AngelaKnight as , thereby strengthening asmaintaining its target at Board level.
the mix of relevant skills and experience on the Board.
Review, approve and embed the changes needed to ensure The appointment of a Group Human ResourcesDirector.
As part of the new appointments mentioned above, the Continue to focus on succession planning across the Group, Board reviewed its composition including diversity, skills and including senior management roles and Board appointments, membership of its committees to ensure it had the individuals tostrengthen the diverse talent pipeline and identify with the right experience and skills on each committee.
More details on this can be found on page 123.
Consider the requirements of the senior management and Through the new appointments, the Nomination Committee certification regime on future recruitment across the Group.
hasreached its target to achieve 33% female representation onthe Board by 2020.
See the below chart for more details.
The appointment of a new Chairman of Vanquis Bank, who will also join the Companys Board as a non-executive director.
The recruitment and appointment of Simon Thomas as the successor to the Group Finance Director.
Continue to strengthen the Board with the necessary recruitment.
Provided advice and guidance on a number of key executive Appoint a CEO for Vanquis Bank.
andsenior management appointments and continued .
During 2018, the Group only engaged executive search firms who Diversity signed upto the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms The Board is committed to supporting diversity and inclusion in the asreported on page 123, and as set out in more detail on page 123 has boardroom, and it believes that a wide range of experience, age, made a number of internal female promotions and Board appointments.
background, perspectives, skills, and knowledge combine to contribute As reported in previous years, we continue to support the voluntary Lord towards a high performing and effective board.
An effective and diverse Davies and Hampton Alexander Women on Boards target of having board then has the foundations to be able to support stakeholders views, 33% female representation on the Board by 2020, and having more than challenge management and achieve the Groups overall strategic aims by 33% female representation in the wider executive committee and direct having a wider range of perspectives represented at Board level.
As part of the recruitment processes, which were overseen Our approach to diversity at all levels in the Group is set out in our by the Committee and are set out in more detail on page 123, diversity corporate policy on equality, diversity and inclusion.
The Board, through was an important consideration of the Board.
With the addition of three the Nomination Committee, strives to recruit directors from different new non-executive directors, the Board is pleased to report it has 38% backgrounds, with diverse experience, perspectives, personalities, skills representation of women on the Board.
In anticipation for the 2018 Code and knowledge.
In the case of non-executive directors, the selection reporting requirements next year and following the recommendations of process is designed to ensure there is consideration given to the specific the Hampton Alexander review, we have included a breakdown of male and responsibilities allocated to the non-executive directors on the Board.
female representation on the Groups Executive Committee and their direct The Nomination Committee and the Group as a whole continues to be reports, and as previously reported we are still committed to achieving the committed to increasing diversity across the Groups businesses and goal of 33% before 2020.
The percentage of female representation in the supporting the development and promotion of talented individuals, wider senior management can be found on page 78. regardless of gender, nationality or ethnic background.
The Committee In support of our policy on equality, diversity and inclusion, which we have continues to believe that appointments to the Board and to other senior operated during 2018 and in accordance with the following principles and management positions should be based on merit.
initiatives will continue throughout 2019: to consider candidates for appointment as non-executive directors Board composition from a wider pool, including those with little or no listed company board experience: The Board Executive Committee to only engage executive search firms who have signed up to the anddirect reports Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms which promotes 1 Male 62% 1 Male 71% gender diversity and best practice for corporate board searches: 2 Female 38% 2 Female 29% to ensure the Board evaluation process includes an assessment of the Boards diversity including gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, and 1 1 cognitive and personal strengths: and where possible, each time a member of a senior management team or a director is recruited, at least one of the shortlisted candidates will 2 be female.
2 It is the Nomination Committees role to review the corporate policy on equality, diversity and inclusion and any action plans that support this policy.
123 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Recruitment Appointment of Appointment of Appointment of ElizabethChambers, Appointment of Malcolm Le May Patrick Snowball PaulHewitt and Angela Knight Simon Thomas Following Peter Crooks Following the tragic death of Manjit The Nomination Committee agreed in A succession planning exercise resignation in August 2017, the Wolstenholme, Malcolm Le May was December 2017 that it was necessary to for the Group Chief Financial Board commenced the search appointed as Interim Executive Chairman.
add to the current skillset of the Board in Officer role and Russell Reynolds for a new Chief Executive Officer, On the subsequent appointment of order to strengthen its composition and were engaged to facilitate facilitated by Russell Reynolds Malcolm as CEO, Stuart Sinclair assumed itrecommended to the Board that it should thisprocess.
As part of this the role of Interim Executive Chairman seekto recruit at least two additional nonFollowing agreement of the process, consideration was given whilst the Board commenced the search executive directors with experience in the role specification a list of 10 to an internal talent review and for a new, independent Chairman.
candidates were proposed succession plan which Ridgeway The search was facilitated by Russell The Group engaged Ridgeway Partners totheBoard.
Partners had completed for the Reynolds and based on discussions with tofacilitate the recruitment process.
It was All members of the Nomination Board in August2017.
the Board members, input from major specifically identified, following a detailed review Committee met with four Russell Reynolds presented shareholders and regulators, a role of the Board composition, that the Group would potential candidates.
In parallel alistof potential candidates specification was agreed.
benefit from the recruitment of specifically to this, Russell Reynolds totheBoard.
i achairman of the Audit Committee: Six potential candidates were continued to present further ii achairman of the Group Risk Committee: and Manjit Wolstenholme, Stuart interviewedby Stuart Sinclair, potential candidates for iii a non-executive director to chair the future Sinclair and Malcolm Le May met AndreaBlance and Malcolm Le May.
After an internal customer, culture and ethics committee, once with six shortlisted candidates preferred candidate, Patrick Snowball also succession planning assessment established by the Board.
some of whom were also met with the Companys audit partner was also undertaken, the interviewed by other members of and a representative from one of the 11 potential candidates were interviewed by Board members met again with the Board.
Malcolm Le May, who Companys brokers, Barclays Bank.
some members of the Board including Stuart Simon Thomas as the preferred was acting as Interim Executive Sinclair, Andrea Blance and Malcolm Le May.
The Board believed it was appropriate to Chairman was approached by include Stuart Sinclair in the recruitment A number of candidates then went on The Nomination Committee the Board and asked to consider process for the new Chairman due to the tomeetthe rest of the Board members.
recommended the appointment applying for the role.
interim nature of his appointment and the of Simon Thomas to the Board Angela Knight, Paul Hewitt and Elizabeth When considering the candidates, notable changes of the Board members following consideration of the Chambers were identified as the preferred the Nomination Committee, at that time.
structure size and composition candidates for their respective roles as excluding Malcolm Le May, took of the Board and its committees, The Nomination Committee reviewed chairmen of the Group Risk, Audit and the time to consider the attributes his role profile and curriculum Patrick Snowballs proposed appointment the futurecustomer, culture and ethics Malcolm Le May could bring vitae.
They were also satisfied and recommended this to the Board Committee s respectively.
to the role, particularly as the that there were no conflicts following consideration of the structure, The Nomination Committee recommended Committee and the Board had of interest and that he had size and composition of the Board and the appointments to the Board following been in a position to observe him sufficient time, skills, knowledge its committees, and satisfied itself that consideration of the structure size and in action and had been impressed and experience to carry out his he had sufficient time, skills, knowledge, composition of the Board and its committees, with his management style and responsibilities as Group Chief experience and independence to carry having made a determination that they each leadership since taking on the role Financial Officer.
out his proposed role and responsibilities had sufficient time, skills, knowledge and of Interim Executive Chairman.
The appointment was approved experience to carry out their proposed roles The Board approved the by the Board with effect from The appointment was approved andresponsibilities as non-executive directors.
appointment of Malcolm 3December 2018. by the Board with effect from The appointments of the three new nonLeMay on1 February 2018 21September2018.
executive directors were approved by the withimmediateeffect.
As some of these appointments were made since the last AGM, Patrick Snowball, ElizabethChambers, Angela Knight, Paul Hewitt and Simon Thomas are standing forelection at the 2019 AGM.
Russell Reynolds is a signatory to the Voluntary Codes Of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
Except for being engaged to recruit a non-executive Chairman, ChiefExecutive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Russell Reynolds had no other connection to the Group during the rest of 2018.
Ridgeway Partners has been accredited by the Hampton Alexander Review for its compliance with the Voluntary Codes Of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
During2018, other than the recruitment of the three non-executive directors mentioned above, Ridgeway Partners had no other services or connection to theGroup.
Succession planning is vitally important to the continued success Succession planning ofthe Group, and achieving its strategic aims.
It safeguards Prior to the issues the business faced during 2017, the Board apipelineof talented individuals and enables the Group to fill had engaged Ridgeway Partners to conduct a talent review and vacancies by internal appointments, creating a good balance succession planning exercise, part of which fed into the initial with the skillset available through external appointments.
search for a Group CEO in 2017 and which was reported last year As the Board believes in its importance, succession planning asbeing presented to the Nomination Committee in December 2017. forsenior management across the Group is kept under review Following the recruitment of the CEO in early February 2019, the bythe Committee.
Group decided to create additional central roles and accordingly, During 2018, the Nomination Committee has received updates on during 2018, a number of Group level appointments have been made succession planning and appointments of members of the Executive such as a new Group HR Director.
As a result of this appointment the Committee and the wider senior management team including the continued work on talent review and succession planning has now appointment of Chris Gillespie as permanent Managing Director been subsumed into the role of the central Group HR function and ofCCD and the appointment of a new Finance Director in CCD.
will be further developed in 2019.
124 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Nomination Committee report continued Committee calendar in 2018 January June November Received an update on the recruitment Received an update on the recruitment Approved for recommendation to the process for a CEO, including consideration process for a non-executive Chairman.
Board, the appointment of Simon Thomas, of Malcolm Le Mays application.
Received an update for the recruitment as Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from 3 December 2018.
Considered, and approved for process of the new non-executive directors.
recommendation to the Board, a number Received an update on the succession of key executive committee and senior planning and recruitment process for During 2018, the Nomination Committee management appointments.
was particularly active between its meetings due to the exceptional Discussed the need for an additional July circumstances and priorities of the Board non-executive director.
during the Rights Issue process in early Approved for recommendation to the February 2018.
Whilst, it only formally met twice Board, the appointment of Elizabeth during the year, it was active outside Chambers, Angela Knight and Paul Hewitt Approved the appointment of Malcolm of the two formal meeting as shown as non-executive directors.
LeMay as CEO and the appointment by the Committee calendar in 2018.
Approved for recommendation to the ofStuart Sinclair as Interim Chairman.
The Nomination Committee focussed Board, the appointment of Patrick Approved appointments to onthe various recruitment processes Snowball as non-executive Chairman Board committees.
thatwere needed for the Board following witheffect from 21 September 2018.
Approved the extension of Rob Andersons the huge amount of change that has term of office.
Succession planning will remain a key ongoing focus of the Each director should not undertake any additional external Nomination Committee in 2019 and beyond.
The Committee will appointments without the prior approval of the Board and the continue to ensure that there are appropriate succession plans reasons for permitting the appointment will be explained in the inplace across the Group and that there are appropriate skills Annual Report and Financial Statements.
andexperience on the Board amongst both the executive and The contractual appointment documents for directors state that any non-executive directors, and within the Executive Committee proposed appointment to the board of another company will require andsenior management teams across the Group.
the prior approval of the Board.
The Companys policy is that a nonThe Committee also intends to support the Groups diversity executive director should have sufficient time to fulfil his her duties policywithin its succession planning activities by ensuring that to the Company, including, where appropriate, chairing a committee.
there is a diverse pipeline for succession and that the level of The Board must consider all requests for permission to accept other femalerepresentation within the senior management teams directorships carefully, subject to the following principles: across the Group is maintained and, where possible, improved a non-executive director would not be expected to hold more during the course of 2019 whilst at the same time ensuring that thanfour other material non-executive directorships: the right level of knowledge, skills and experience is maintained.
if a non-executive director holds an executive role in a FTSE 350 As part of the succession planning and strengthening of the Group company, they would not be expected to hold more than two functions, avariety of internal promotions were made during 2018 other material non-executive directorships: to Grouplevel, including the Group Director of Communications, theGroup Data Protection Officer, the Group Head of Reward, the in line with the Code, an executive director will be permitted Group ChiefInformation Officer and the Group Chief Information tohold one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company Security Officer.
Two of these were female promotions.
and to retain the fees from that appointment provided that the Board considers that this will not adversely affect their executive Policy on Board appointments responsibilities to the Company: and the Board would not permit an executive director to take on the The Board reviewed its policy on Board appointments and other chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
directorships in December 2018, and its policies were amended shortly thereafter to reflect the changes of the 2018 Code.
The Boards policy on other directorships is designed to ensure Patrick Snowball that all directors remain able to discharge their responsibilities Chairman tothe Company.
13 March 2019 Prior to the appointment of any new directors, the Board should consider the other demands and significant commitments on the prospective directors time before approval of that appointment.
Prior to appointment, significant commitments will be disclosed with an indication of the time involved for consideration by the Board.
125 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Audit, risk and internal control Audit Committee and auditor The Audit Committee provides governance and oversight , the audit  compliance.
Paul Hewitt Audit Committee Chairman Members Current members ElizabethChambers Member from 31 July 2018 Paul Hewitt Chairman from 31 July 2018 Secretary: Kenneth Mullen Andrea Blance Other members during the year Chairman up to 30 July 2018 Stuart Sinclair John Straw Member until 21 September 2018 Angela Knight Member from 31 July 2018 Malcolm Le May Member until 1 February 2018 126 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Audit, Risk and Internal Control continued Audit Committee and auditor continued However, the ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving Annual statement by the Chairman the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 remains with of the Audit Committee theBoard.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found onthe Groups website at www.
As the recently appointed chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report for the year ended The Committee is also specifically responsible for: 31 December 2018.
I would like to thank Andrea Blance for her Initiating and oversight of any tender process in relation to the diligence during her tenure in the role of Audit Committee Chairman, appointment of an external auditor: and welcome her continued valuable input as a member, along with Oversight and approval of the scope and fee for the audit: Angela Knight and ElizabethChambers.
This report is intended to Assisting the Board in assessing the Companys ongoing viability, provide a summary of the activities of the Audit Committee and its the basis of the assessment and the period of time covered: key responsibilities and confirms compliance with the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Services Order.
Furthermore, Reviewing and recommending to the Board quarterly Ilook forward to attending the AGM on 21 May 2019 to answer trading statements: anyquestions on the work of the Committee.
Approving the Group internal audit plan annually: and Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups Composition of the Committee systemofinternal controls by considering Group internal The membership of the Committee has been updated significantly auditactivity reports at each meeting and reporting to the in 2018, with the addition of Angela Knight, ElizabethChambers and Boardon a regular basis.
The members have a wide range of business and financial The Audit Committee debated and approved the internal audit experience which is evidenced by their biographical summaries on plan for 2019.
The audit plan is reflective of both the material risk pages 94 to 97.
Andrea Blance and myself both have considerable themes the Group faces, as well as the Groups strategic drivers.
recent and relevant financial experience, as detailed on pages 96 The Committee is satisfied that the Group internal audit function to 97.
Other attendees at the Audit Committee meetings in 2018 hasthe appropriate resources to deliver the 2019 plan both were, by invitation: Malcolm Le May Chief Executive Officer who was in-house and through its strategic co-sourcing relationship.
formerly a member until 1 February 2018, Andrew Fisher, Group Finance Director to 3 December 2018 : Gary Thompson, the Group Allocation of time Financial Controller, David Mortlock, the Head of Group Internal 1 Governance 19% Audit until 25 April 2018, Shaun Temple Brown Interim Group Chief 1 2 Financial reporting 22% Auditor from 17 April 2018, Patrick Snowball Group Chairman from 21 September 2018, Vicki Turner Group Senior Finance Manager, 3 External Audit 26% 2 Simon Thomas Group Chief Financial Officer from 3 December 2018 4 Internal audit 33% 4 and Deloitte LLP, the external auditor.
3 Role of the Audit Committee andauditor The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by monitoring the integrity of the financial At each meeting, the Committee: statements of the Group and other financial information before Had a discussion with both the external and internal auditor publication, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements without any executive director being present, this being contained in them.
In addition, the Committee also reviews: onarotating basis from December 2018: the system of internal financial and operational controls on Reviewed a Group internal audit activity report: acontinuing basis, and the arrangements and procedures Reviewed updates from the external auditors: and inplacetodeal with fraud and bribery: and Received an update on the activities of the Vanquis Bank the accounting and financial reporting processes, along with the audit committee.
roles and effectiveness of both the Group internal audit function and the external auditor.
127 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Committee calendar in 2018 Reviewed and approved the external January May quality assessment EQA action plan: Received a teach-in case study session Reviewed the 2017 Financial Statements Reviewed and confirmed the related to IFRS 9 treatment within & areas of significant judgement, including whistleblowing escalation process: Moneybarn: and going concern and the viability statement: Reviewed and approved the Group Received an update on a letter to the FRC Received an update on non-audit fees: internal audit effectiveness review responding to queries raised in relation tobeundertaken by PwC: Reviewed and approved the internal audit to the FCAs investigation into ROP and charter 2018: Received an update on legacy internal itsdisclosure within the 2016 accounts.
audit findings and approved proposals Received a verbal update on external fortheir future treatment: October audit activity, including the Group IT audit: Received an update from Group internal Reviewed the internal controls Reviewed and approved the revised audit in relation to the work they were positioning paper: committee terms of reference ToR : completing at the FCAs request: Received an update on the FCA Reviewed the ToR adherence plan Reviewed the and considered the results discussions concerning CCD: and statusof compliance throughout 2018: of the Moneybarn impairment review Reviewed the Audit Committee following the implementation of IFRS 9: Reviewed and recommended the effectiveness review results.
Q3interim management statement Reviewed and noted the results of the February tothe Board: FRCs audit quality review of Deloitte: Received an update on the revised 2018 Reviewed and considered the content Reviewed and approved the non-audit budget forecast: ofDeloittes management letter fee policy: oninternalcontrols: and Reviewed and approved the 2018 external Received an update on whistleblowing audit planning report for the year ending Approved the revised non-audit fee policy.
across the Group: 31 December 2018: July Reviewed a prepared response letter Reviewed and approved the external tothe FRC answering questions in relation audit fees: Reviewed and approved the revised to the Vanquis Bank ROP: Confirmed the external auditors statement Committee terms of reference: Reviewed and approved the viability of independence and objectivity: Received an update on the outstanding statement for the final results: Reviewed the Group internal audit update internal audit IT findings: Reviewed and recommended the and activity report: and Reviewed, carefully considered and Annual Report and Financial Statements Received an update on the EQA.
approved the areas of significant 2017 beprepared on a going concern judgement for the ix months ended basis, andrecommended the Annual December 30 June 2018: Report and Financial Statements 2017 beapproved by the Board: Reviewed and approved the going Received an update on the design and concernpaper for the interim results: process in relation to the Annual Report Reviewed and approved the fair, balanced and Financial Statements 2018: and understandable report: Reviewed and recommended to the Boardthe interim results for the Reviewed and considered the annual Reviewed the Chairmans annual audit sixmonths ended 30 June 2018: report on whistleblowing and anti-bribery report for inclusion in the Annual Report and corruption: and Financial Statements 2017: Reviewed and carefully considered contingent liabilities: Received a status update on the EQA Confirmed the external auditors action plan: statement of independence Received feedback on the external and objectivity: auditorfrom the Group finance function Received an update on the interim audit and the divisional finance teams: bythe external auditors: Reviewed the 2017 external audit full year report: Reviewed and approved an external Confirmed the coordination between the auditIT benchmarking proposal: activities of Internal and external audit: Reviewed and proposed the reappointment of the external auditor: Reviewed and approved the Group internal Reviewed and approved the 2019 internal audit status and action plan, including the audit plan: and Reviewed and approved the external quality assessment review: annual internal controls risk Reviewed the Group internal audit update management opinion: Received an update from Group internal and activity report.
audit in relation to the work they were Reviewed the Group internal audit In addition to the above, the Audit completing at the FCAs request: activityreport: and Committeealso received a teach in Received an update on the successful sessionfrom the Group finance function Received an update on the FCA implementation of the GDPR: on21 September 2018 relating to significant discussions concerning CCD.
assumptions and the treatment of the IFRS 9 accounting standard.
128 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Audit, Risk and Internal Control continued Audit Committee and auditor continued The report is balanced Fair, balanced and understandable Is there a good level of consistency between the narrative At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether, reporting and the financial reporting and is the messaging inits opinion, the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018, ineachconsistent when read independently of each other: taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, and understandable and provides the necessary information for the reader to assess the Groups Does the narrative reporting on the Divisions reflect both position and performance, business model and key audit matters.
thepositive and negative aspects of performance: Are both the statutory and adjusted financial measures Process explainedclearly and given equal priority and prominence: In justifying this statement the Committee considered the robust Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting process in place to create the Annual Report and Financial andthe significant issues reported in this Audit Committee Statements 2018 including: reportconsistent with the disclosures and critical judgements The early involvement of the Committee in the preparation setout inthe financial statements: and oftheAnnual Report and Financial Statements 2018 which How do these judgements and issues compare with the risks enabled itto provide input into the overall messages and tone: thatthe external auditor will include in its report.
The input provided by divisional and Group senior management The report is understandable and the process of review, evaluation and verification to ensure balance, accuracy and consistency: Is there a clear and understandable structure to the report: The reviews conducted by external advisors appointed to advise Are the important messages highlighted appropriately and on best practice: consistently throughout the document with clear signposting The regular review of the Group internal audit activity reports towhere additional information can be found: and which are presented at Committee meetings and the opportunity Is the narrative within the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the non-executive directors to meet the external auditor 2018 straightforward and transparent.
without any executive of the Group being present via the This assessment was also underpinned by the following: privatesessions of the Committee: The papers on critical accounting assumptions and key sources The Committee meetings reviewed and considered the draft of estimation uncertainty presented by management to the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 in advance Audit Committee which documents the approach taken to the ofthefinal sign-off: and critical accounting assumptions and key sources of estimation The final sign-off process by the Board.
uncertainty documented in the financial statements on page 178.
When forming its opinion, the Committee reflected on the The assumptions and the going concern statement were carefully information it had received and its discussions through the year.
reviewed and challenged by the Committee with the assistance In particular, the Committee considered whether: ofthe external auditor who also fully analysed and concurred withthe assumptions made as part of the year-end process: The report is fair The consistency between the risks identified and the issues that Is the narrative reporting on the divisions consistent with the are of concern to the Committee: reporting in the financial statements: The comprehensive reviews of the Annual Report and Financial Are the key messages in the narrative reporting reflective Statements 2018 undertaken at different levels in the Group ofthefinancial reporting: and whichaims to ensure consistency and overall balance: and Are the KPIs disclosed appropriate to understanding the The external auditors report on the Annual Report and underlying performance of the Group and its divisions.
Conclusion Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 is representative of the year, and presents a fair, balanced, and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
129 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Key activities in 2018 Priorities for 2019 Continued to monitor the integrity of the financial statements Oversight of the continued embedding of IFRS 9 and other of the Group including, in particular, the annual and half-yearly newaccounting standards into the control related framework: reports and the interim management statements: Focus on Group-wide IT issues and an enhanced risk culture Reviewed the statement set out on page 135 concerning internal aswell as ensuring that historic internal and external audit controls and risk management and considered the significant control observations are remediated, and thereby implementing risks identified in relation to the implementation of the new a more integrated and robust approach to IT across the divisions: operating model in CCD: Oversee the implementation of the relevant parts of the new Oversaw the Groups co-operation with the Financial Reporting Corporate Governance Code 2018 requirements as they apply Council FRC in respect of its enquiries in relation to, amongst tothe audit committees: other things, the adequacy of the disclosures in the Groups Monitor the embedding of the changes made to the Group annual report and financial statements for the year ended internal audit function during 2018, in response to the 2017 EQA: 31 December 2016 regarding the FCAs investigation into, and the Continue to hold executive management to account for suspension of, the sale of ROP to new customers.
The external theimplementation of corrective action plans within auditors have also been subject to an inspection review: expectedtime-frames: Monitored and approved the methodologies adopted to comply Oversight of the roll out of the revised model governance with the adoption of IFRS 9, receiving in-house training on the framework developed in 2018 across the Group: topic inSeptember 2018: Continue to monitor developments and recommendations Considered and approved proposed actions in response arising from the reviews into the market and financial tothe2017 EQA on the Group internal audit function:  in the UK: and Performed a deep dive on the Moneybarn IFRS 9 The Group internal audit plan for 2019 considers both the , received progress reports Groups material risk themes and strategic objectives and on addressing legacy ITcontrol observations and the assuch the audit plan is characterised by a number of themed implementation of the GDPR: and reviews including: Group governance framework: Group risk Updated and approved its terms of reference to ensure they management framework: affordability and responsible lending: align with best practice and there are no areas of duplication collections, arrears and forbearance: complaints management: withthe work of the Group Risk Committee.
data governance and protection: and business continuity and resiliency.
In response to the EQA a comprehensive action plan was established Group Internal Audit designed to improve the functions stature, relationships and The Group operates an in-house Group internal audit function working practices.
The plan was approved by the Audit Committee, which is managed by the Group Interim Chief Internal Auditor who shared with the regulator, and its progress subsequently tracked.
was appointed on 17 April 2018, with specialist services provided The plan was successfully completed in February 2019. bythird-party consultants where necessary.
The Group internal audit function also reports to the Committee which helps to ensure the External audit functions independence from Group management.
The Committee Effectiveness of the external auditor reviews regular reports on the activity of this function and as chairman of the Audit Committee, I also meet separately with The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor, theGroup Interim Chief Internal Auditor on a quarterly basis.
including the rotation of the audit partner, annually.
This includes From 2018 Vanquis Bank have their own internal audit function an assessment of the independence of the external auditor and an separate to that of the remainder of the Group, however there assessment of its performance in the previous year.
This is achieved are reporting lines between the functions to ensure a consistent primarily through a questionnaire and scorecard which is completed and balanced overview of the Group to the Committee, and I work by key stakeholders involved in the annual audit process, including withthe Vanquis Audit Committee Chairman to ensure appropriate the Audit Committee, heads of finance in each of the divisions and at coordination.
Vanquis Bank internal audit provided assurance Group level.
The scores and results of the questionnaire are collated overthe Banks major programmes of work during the year, and shared with the external auditor and an action plan to address includingthe ROP refund programme.
any areas of concern identified is agreed.
Group internal audit conducted three important reviews during 2018, at the request of the FCA.
The reviews were focused on historiclending and collection practices in the UK home credit business.
The reviews helped to confirm that the new ways ofworking in home credit as a result of the strategic plan aremuchimproved compared to those historically.
130 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Audit, Risk and Internal Control continued Audit Committee and auditor continued Significant issues and areas of judgement External auditor appointment considered by the Group Audit Committee Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditors, have been the Groups The critical accounting assumptions and key sources of estimation auditors for 7 years.
It is the Groups policy to undertake a formal uncertainty considered by the Audit Committee in relation to tender process every 10 years, or earlier, if the Audit Committee the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 are outlined feel that this would be in the best interests of the Group.
In addition to the matters set out on page 131, the assessment of the performance of Deloitte LLP is undertaken Committee also considered the going concern statement set out following finalisation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements onpage 70.
The Committee discussed these with the external and presented to the Audit Committee is May each year.
The last auditor during the year and, where appropriate, these have been assessment took place in May 2018.
This assessment indicated addressed as areas of audit focus as outlined in the independent that Deloitte LLP were performing in line with expectations and auditors report on pages225 to 233. were considered to be independent of the Group.
It was therefore considered that Deloitte LLP be proposed to be reappointed Working with the external auditor at the Groups auditor for the financial year ended 31 December Until December 2018, at each of its meetings, the Committee held 2018.
The next assessment will be presented to the Committee a separate session with the external auditor without any executive inMay 2019. director or employee of the Group being present.
This gave In accordance with best practice and guidance issued by the FRC, members of the Committee the opportunity to raise any issues, the Committee will continue to review the qualification, expertise, including any issues on the interim and final results of the Group, resources and independence of the external auditor and the directly with the external auditor.
The Committee schedules private effectiveness of the audit process during the next financial year.
sessions with the internal and external auditors on a rotating basis, with the option for a private session upon request.
In addition Compliance statement Imeet with the external audit partner on a quarterly basis The Group has fully complied with the Statutory Audit Services todiscusspertinent issues.
for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use An annual feedback report is provided to the external auditor of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee anddiscussed at the Audit Committee at the July 2018 meeting.
Responsibilities Order 2014 throughout the 2018 financial year.
Audit Quality Review Independence and objectivity During the year the FRC concluded a review of the audit The Committee has adopted a policy on the appointment of staff performedby Deloitte LLP of the Groups financial statements from the external auditor to positions within the various Group forthe year ended 31 December 2016.
The focus of the review finance departments.
The policy grades appointments into four andtheir reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are categories and sets out the approvals required.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee received a full copy ofthe audit firm who has acted as engagement partner, or the of the findings of the Audit Quality Review Team and has discussed quality review partner, or other key audit partners, or partners these with Deloitte LLP.
Some matters were identified as requiring in thechain of command, nor a senior member of the audit improvement and an action plan was agreed to ensure that the engagement team, may be employed as Group CFO, Group matters identified were addressed, where relevant, as part of the FinancialController or Divisional Finance Director.
audit of the 2018 financial statements.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that there was nothing within The Committee has considered the independence of the Deloitte thereport which might have a bearing on their audit appointment.
LLP audit team in light of the continued significant level of non-audit services provided in the year and have deemed that adequate safeguards have been in place including: separate partners and staff being responsible for the delivery of this work: the non-audit team donot prepare anything which would be relied upon in the audit of the Group: and the work performed is also subject to anindependent Professional Standards Review and Engagement QualityControl Review process.
131 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance The level of paid Deloitte LLP fees for non-audit work during the year Non-audit work was 2,269,000 2017: 344,000 comprising 2,000,000 for services The Company has a formal policy on the use of the external related to the Rights Issue, 67,000 for the Group interim review auditorfor non-audit work.
This policy is reviewed annually and 135,000 for other projects.
The ratio of non-audit to audit fees by theCommittee and was reviewed in 2018 to reflect the during the year was 2.87:1. requirementsof the EU Audit Directive and Regulations The Committee have considered the independence of the Deloitte andapproved at the February 2018 meeting.
LLP audit team in light of the level of non-audit services provided The award of non-audit work to the external auditor is managed in the year and have deemed that adequate safeguards have been and monitored in order to ensure that the external auditor inplace including: separate partners and staff being responsible isabletoconduct an independent audit and is perceived to be forthe delivery of this work: the non-audit team do not prepare independent by the Groups shareholders and other stakeholders.
anything which would be relied upon in the Group audit: and the Work is awarded only when, by virtue of their knowledge, skills work performed is also subject to an independent Professionals or experience, the external auditor is clearly to be preferred Standards Review and Engagement Quality Control Review process.
I am also required to approve in advance any single award of nonPaul Hewitt audit work with an aggregate cost of between 50,000250,000 Audit Committee Chairman and the Committee must provide prior approval for items in excess 13 March 2019 of 250,000.
The Committee will always seek confirmation that Deloitte LLPs objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
Significant issues and areas of judgement Issue Judgement Actions Judgement is applied as to the level of In order to assess the Considered the findings within Impairment of receivables appropriateness of the judgements impairment recognised.
There is a judgement the report in light of current Receivables are impaired on recognition applied, management produce asto whether past payment performance trading performance and a detailed report for the audit in accordance with IFRS 9.
The level of provides a reasonable guide as to the expected future performance: committee and the external auditor impairment is initially dependent on collectability of the current receivables book, Considered the work which sets out the assumptions the probability of a customer defaulting the probability of default, loss given default underpinning the calculations of performed by the Group PD within 12 months utilising historic andexposure at default.
Accordingly, this the probability of default, loss given Internal Audit function repayment data, the loss incurred is aprimary source of audit effort for the default and exposure at default.
oninformation technology if a customer default LGD and the Groupsexternal auditor.
controls and operational exposure at default EAD.
Reviewed managements report controls such as cash and challenged management collections, credit management Repayment data for Home credit on the results and judgements and arrears management: and excludes data through 2017 which is used in the test: not deemed to be indicative of future Considered the review Considered the work performed performance given the operational performed by the Vanquis by Deloitte on validating disruption within the home credit Bank audit committee the data used in the testing business.
on the Vanquis Bank performed by management impairment provisions.
Lifetime losses are recognised following and their challenge of the a significant increase in credit risk.
assumptions used: Judgement is applied in formulating each of the The Companys external actuary, The Committee considered the Retirement benefit asset assumptions used in calculating the retirement Willis Towers Watson, propose work performed by Deloitte on the The valuation of the retirement benefit benefit asset.
the appropriate assumptions and valuation and their views on the asset is dependent upon a series of calculate the value of the retirement suitable ranges of assumptions assumptions.
The key assumptions are benefit asset.
the discount rate, inflation rates and mortality rates used to calculate the present value of future liabilities.
Judgement is applied as to whether the criteria In order to assess the Reviewed the work performed Provisions for recognition has been met.
In addition, if appropriateness of the judgements by external consultants in The Group makes provisions for the criteria for recognition are met, judgement applied, the Committee: respect of conduct matters customer remediation if all of the is applied to determine the quantum of such relating to the investigations Challenged the assumptions following are present: liabilities including making assumptions where applicable: and made by management to regarding the number of future complaints Considered the work performed i a present obligation legal or determine the provision for thatwill be received and the extent to which by Deloitte and their views constructive has arisen as a result of redress and administration theywill be upheld, average redress payments on the appropriateness a past event ii : payment is probable costs, including sensitivity and related administrative costs.
of assumptions used by more likely than not : and iii the analysis of the range management, based on amount can be estimated reliably.
