98 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Leadership and purpose continued Activities of the Board during the year The following pages provide examples of key Board activities during Growing sustainable, theyear.
Whilst the table is nonexhaustive, it provides an insight into Acting responsibly customer-centric businesses andwith integrity the Boards discussions and how the directors promote the success that deliver attractive returns in all we do innon-standard markets of the Company.
One of the key Board priorities during the year was the Rights Issue in April, and greaterdetail is set out onpage 100.
Maintaining a Generating consistent secure funding and andsustainable capitalstructure shareholderreturns Areas of focus Matters considered Outcome Link to strategy The Board played an important role in the 2018 Corporate Planning Conference Prioritised initiatives to be Strategy CPC, during which a review of key business initiatives and opportunities was progressed across the Group undertaken.
Prior to the CPC, the Board had provided key input into the CPC in response to the challenges agenda, shaping the discussion.
Monitoring of the progress More details are set out on page 100.
The prioritised strategic initiatives from the ofstrategic initiatives.
CPCwere monitored bythe Board throughout the year.
The Board has received regular updates on how our three divisions have performed Oversight of each Divisions Business and progressed against our strategic priorities.
At each meeting both CEO and CFO operational performance performance reports are presented to the Board.
against targets, and the and oversight strategy to achieve the same.
Throughout the year, the Board also received a number of detailed operational Refinanced the Group with updates on the performance of each of our three divisions, presented by the the successful Rights Issue in Managing Director ofeach Division.
April 2018 and refinancing of The Board also oversaw the Companys financing activity during the year and the the senior bond in June 2018.
Group made very good progress in strengthening its funding position during the first Indepth review of the current half of the year.
More detail on its activities in relation to the Rights Issue is set out status of the Groups IT on page 100.
In June 2018, the Group also issued 250m of 5year fixed rate bonds function and endorsement carrying a semiannual coupon of 7%.
The proceeds of the bond issue were partly of the proposed approach used to finance the tender offer for the 250m existing senior bonds.
During the year the Board also received a detailed update on the Groups IT, technology and data estate and reviewed enhancement proposals.
Risk and governance were key areas of focus for the Board during the year.
Carrying out a complete Governance review and approval of and Risk During 2018 the Board reviewed, challenged and approved a number of the our corporate governance important components of the Companys governance framework.
A thorough review arrangements and the setting of the framework setting out the Boards role and responsibilities was undertaken, out of a clear framework for the Matters Reserved for the Board and its committee terms of reference were how the Group and Divisions reviewed to ensure alignment with best practice and subsequently approved by will operate in the future.
the Committees and Board where appropriate.
Furthermore, the Board reviewed Review and challenge of the and approved a Board Governance Manual and Delegated Authorities Manual and action plan for compliance reviewed an Executive Governance Manual: these documents formally outline the with the 2018 Code.
Groups governance framework and arrangements, clearly documenting roles and responsibilities, and clarifying areas of accountability.
Review and approval of anew Group Risk Appetite The Board also received an update on the implications of the new 2018 Code.
Framework and Group level TheBoard reviewed and challenged the action plan designed to ensure full Risk Policies.
compliance and agreed an approach to Board oversight of the implementation oftheaction plan in order to ensure compliance.
Board support, approval andoversight of the 2018 Following appointment of the Group Interim Chief Risk Officer CRO, the Board Code action plan.
reviewed the forwardlooking priorities in the CRO work plan.
Board approval of the The Board receives regular risk updates from the Group Interim CRO on key risk Groupwide Conduct Risk issues.
In addition to the ongoing risk reporting and Board oversight of risk, the Assessment and action plan.
Board reviewed a Group Conduct Risk framework and, a Groupwide Conduct Risk This provided a clearer view Assessment, and following challenge, approved the assessment and action plan.
on our Group Conduct profile In order to set out a clear picture of the Groups aggregate risk profile and to ensure and areas of continuing focus.
that the Board set an overall risk appetite at an acceptable level, it reviewed and approved a new Group Risk Appetite Framework.
Following approval by the Group Risk Committee, the Board also reviewed the proposed Group level Risk Policies, which support the Group Risk Appetite Framework.
99 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Areas of focus Matters considered Outcome Link to strategy As set out on page 123, during 2018 the Board played an important role in the A strengthened Board People and appointment processes for several new Board members.
The Board reviewed and toleadthe Company.
culture approved the appointments of a new CEO, a new CFO, three new nonexecutive Monitoring of the hiring directors and a new nonexecutive Chairman, following recommendations from processes for key theNomination Committee.
The Board has also been kept uptodate on the progress being made to hire Review and approval variouskey senior managers across the Group.
At its March 2018 meeting, the Board reviewed and discussed the Companys reporting obligations and initiatives in relation to the gender pay gap.
Review and approval ofournew Blueprint.
In recognition of the importance of our workforce and in order to ensure that their voice is heard at Board level, the Board reviewed and approved a workforce engagement model for implementation.
You can read more about this on page 104.
Our Board sets the Companys purpose, values and strategy, and satisfies itself that there is alignment with the Groups culture.
As part of this role, the Board reviewed, challenged and approved a new Blueprint, launched in 2019, with a renewed purpose underpinned by strategic drivers and a defined set ofbehaviours.
Oversight of the regulatory agenda has been an important focus for the Board Oversight of Groupwide Regulatory during 2018. regulatory performance, and monitoring progress The Board received regular regulatory updates from the Group Interim CRO, and engagement with including a regulatory tracker of all Groupwide regulatory matters and engagement.
The CEO also updated the Board on his regulatory engagement activities as the Good progress in the Group sought to develop a stronger working relationship with our regulators.
regulatory matters The Board monitored the resolution of the regulatory issues that the Group has impactingeach Division.
faced, as we looked to deliver the recovery plan in CCD and to progress the FCA investigations in respect of Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn.
The Board has also been kept uptodate as the Group adapted to the FCAs affordability rules which impact all of the Groups businesses.
The Board understands the importance of considering its stakeholders.
Oversight of customer Stakeholders related matters.
As part of the regular business performance reporting, focus is given to oversight of Consideration of investor and progress on customerrelated performance, particularly customer complaints.
In addition to an Investor Relations report at each Board meeting, the Board also Approval of an updated reviewed the results of an annual investor and analyst perception audit undertaken Social Impact Programme, by a third party: this enabled the Board to get a detailed insight into the views of aligned to our social investors and analysts on key issues, particularly in light of the challenges the Group purposeand culture.
Details on our investor engagement strategy is set out on pages105 to 108. Review of our Modern SlaveryAct statement.
In 2018 the Board also reviewed how the Group can make an impact on the communities in which it operates, through its Social Impact Programme, and howthis can be aligned to its social purpose and culture.
Following a review, the Board approved an updated Social Impact Programme, focused on our customers, education and our community partners which included the establishment of a SocialImpact Programme Steering Group chaired by a member of the senior management team.
At its March 2018 meeting, the Board reviewed the Groups Modern Slavery Act statement, which was signed by Malcolm Le May, our CEO.
In 2018 the Board continued to focus on how to promote the success of the Group during a year of further developments in our external environment.
As part of this, it reviewed the Groups political risks and received regular updates on external communication matters.
Looking forward, the Boards focus for 2019 is expected to include: addressing all regulatory matters and focussing on the working the continued oversight of business performance: relationship with our regulators: the continued recovery of our home credit business: and embedding our Blueprint and monitoring and assessing the addressing changes to the 2018 Code andother corporate Groups culture: governance policy developments.
the continued review of our customercentric way of working: the continued review of our strategy: 100 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Leadership and purpose continued Activities of the Board during the year continued The Board in focus: Rights Issue An important achievement for the Group in 2018 was the considered and took advice on the Companys obligations successful fullyunderwritten Rights Issue in April, raising under the Market Abuse Regulation: approximately 300 million.
We took this necessary action to established an approach to stakeholder engagement, including raise additional capital to bolster the Groups regulatory capital approval of stock exchange announcements as appropriate: position to enable it to meet its current and future regulatory reviewed and approved the key public documents and legal capital requirements, as well as to strengthen its balance sheet agreements documents, including the Rights Issue Prospectus, with the appropriate level of buffers.
This also allowed the Group the Circular to shareholders and Notice of General Meeting: and to capture underlying organic growth opportunities and maintain approved the admission of the new shares to the Official List its investment grade rating during 2018: allowing it to reestablish of the UK Listing Authority which allowed them to trade on the normal access to funding from the bank and debt capital markets.
The Board played a leading role in the Rights Issue, overseeing the The Board committees also played important roles in supporting process and made key decisions at various stages.
the Board in relation to the RightsIssue.
The Companys directors have the primary responsibility to ensure Audit Committee: The Audit Committee reviewed the structure that the public documents relating to a rights issue are accurate, of the Rights Issue and its impact on the Group from a going complete and not misleading.
As a result of this, each director concern and viability perspective.
The Audit Committee read proofs of the entire Prospectus and Circular, considered each considered the accounting considerations of the Rights Issue, statement and satisfied themselves that the facts contained within the approach taken in respect of material judgements during the it were true and not misleading.
To enable each director tobe yearend accounting process and the impact of the Rights Issue able to do this, the business undertook both a due diligence and on the Companys key accounting assumptions and estimates.
verification exercise whereby all key statements included in the The Audit Committee also considered the independence of Prospectus and Circular had to be verified by the best available Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditor, in light of its services source of information in order for the directors to be able to sign inrelation to the Rights Issue and approved their engagement the responsibility letters.
and their fees in relation to those services.
Amongst other matters, the Board also: Remuneration Committee: As part of the Rights Issue process, Received briefings by external advisors, including key the Remuneration Committee had to consider the impact of the considerations and the Boards responsibilities in relation proposed Rights Issue on each of the Groups employee share to the Rights Issue, which included an analysis of directors plans and the treatment of unallocated shares in its Provident legal and fiduciary duties and responsibilities: the Groups Financial plc 2007 Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
obligations under the Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance As part of the Rights Issue, our Interim Chairman, Stuart Sinclair, andTransparency Rules and the EU Market Abuse Regulation: wrote to all shareholders explaining why the Rights Issue was Reviewed key aspects of the Rights Issue, such as: necessary, why it was in best interests of the Company and the timetable for the Rights Issue and monitoring of progress shareholders as a whole, and sought their support and approval of the different workstreams against the timetable: to provide the Board with the necessary power and authority considered the key capital elements of the Rights Issue toallot sufficient ordinary shares to undertake the Rights Issue.
andthecapital plan submitted to the PRA: At aGeneral Meeting held on 21 March 2018, 99.93% ofvotes werecast in favour of the resolution put to shareholders assessment of the risks in relation to the Rights Issue, inrelationto the Rights Issue.
particularly in relation to the regulatory matters facing the Group: Following the completion of the Rights Issue, and the refinancing of the senior bond in June 2018, the Groups capital position and the process undertaken to ensure the accuracy and liquidity has been restored.
completeness of the information contained within the Prospectus and approved draft submissions to the UKLA: Delegates engaged in a range of Group discussions and separate 2018 Corporate Planning Conference CPC mixed team interactive working sessions were arranged, covering In June 2018, the Group held its annual CPC event, with the competition, markets, technology and regulation.
whole Board, Executive Committee and members of the senior The Board members played an active role in the sessions and management team attending.
provided clear input on the future direction and key strategic The purpose of the two day offsite was to: 1 create an decisions throughout the conference.
The event generated a list understanding of the emerging and future challenges facing the of prioritised initiatives for implementation across the Group Group: and 2 review key business initiatives and how the Group in response to the challenges and opportunities which were should be organised to address the opportunities at hand.
identified, the progress of which has been monitored by the Boardthroughout the year.
