109 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Division of responsibilities The success of the Group, is down to an effective Board, with clear rules and areas of responsibility for Board members, both executive andnon-executive.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary ensures that we have the right policies and processes in place, and theright resources available for the Board to operate effectively.
Patrick Snowball Chairman In order for it to operate effectively and provide the right amount Role of the Board and its committees of time and consideration to relevant matters, the Board delegates A successful company is led by an effective board.
Board members authority to its principal committees which are set out on page are qualified, individually and collectively, for their positions.
Its committees then report, and make recommendations, They develop and promote the collective vision of the Companys to the Board to ensure it maintains oversight of the committees purpose, its strategy, culture, values and behaviours.
The chairmen of the Board committees also report to the The Chairman creates the conditions for overall Board and Board aftereach committee meeting, as appropriate, on key areas individualdirector effectiveness, with the aim of encouraging all of committee discussion.
More detail on the committees and their Board members to engage in Board and committee meetings workis described in the committees sections in this report on bydrawing on their skills, experience, knowledge and, where pages120, 125, 132 and 144. applicable, independence.
The Board also delegates the execution of the Groups strategy andday to day management of the Group to its executive directors, The Board is collectively responsible for overseeing the Group who are supported by the Executive Committee.
strategy and ensuring that the Group is managed effectively and in the best interests of its shareholders, having regard to its customers, As well as reviewing its matters reserved on a regular basis, the employees, regulators and other stakeholders.
Pages 101 and 108 Board also reviews the terms of reference for its committees at least highlight how we consider and engage with our stakeholders.
During the course of the year, the Boards matters reserved and the terms of reference for its committees have been thoroughly The Board operates within a formal schedule of matters refreshed to, inter alia, reflect best practice and the work which has reserved to it, which is reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
been undertaken in relation to wider governance issues and culture The Board meets regularly and provides direction, oversight and during the course of 2018. detailed reviewand challenge to management.
Some of the key responsibilities of the Board are set out below: The matters reserved for the Board and the terms of reference of each of its committees can be found on the Groups website responsibility for the overall leadership of the Group through atwww.
With the support of its committees, the Board sets the strategic direction and aims to deliver In addition, the Group has corporate policies which are explained sustainable shareholder value over the longer term: on page 46 of this report and which are periodically reviewed set, instil and monitor the Groups culture, values and and refreshed when and where required.
These were reviewed standards, inboth the Boardroom and throughout the Group: and approved by the Board in July 2018.
On a day-to-day basis, the Divisions and the corporate office have responsibility for review performance in light of the Groups strategic aims, the implementation of the corporate policies and the Board regulatory obligations and business plans and budgets: isresponsible for the general oversight of this process.
financial reporting and controls: During 2018, as part of the governance and risk development corporate governance: programme, the Board approved a number of documents which sets the risk appetite of the Group and oversees the arekey components of the Groups governance framework, including implementation of appropriate risk management systems a Board Governance Manual and a Delegated Authorities Manual.
andprocesses to identify, manage and mitigate the principal The aim of these documents is to clarify areas of accountability that andemerging risks of the Group: and are not traditionally captured within the Boards matters reserved orits committees terms of reference.
ensuring effective succession planning at Board and senior management level.
110 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Division of responsibilities continued How our governance contributes to the delivery ofour strategy Governance is essential to the Group achieving its purpose and the It is supported by the Group Interim Chief Risk Officer and successful delivery of its strategy.
Our governance arrangements, the ChiefRisk Officers in eachDivision.
Further details of how designed to support the delivery of our strategy and purpose, the Groups processes and internal controls work are set out which the Board is responsible for, determine how the Group is onpages46 and 135. directed and controlled and who has authority and accountability.
Our governance arrangements ensure that the Board is Our governance arrangements ensure that our Board determine responsible for setting the desired behaviours and monitoring our purpose, which enables them to set out the strategy and theGroups culture, seeking to ensure alignment with our strategy.
objectives for long-term success and value creation, in the We believe that employee behaviour and culture are key enablers context of the Groups social, regulatory and market environment.
The Board recognises the importance of its duties to our wider The Remuneration Committees role is to ensure that remuneration stakeholders and our relationships with them in achieving our policies and practices are designed to support our strategy and strategy and long-term success.
The Board monitors how the promote long-term sustainable success, encouraging behaviours Executive Directors, supported by our Executive Committee and consistent with the Groups purpose, values, strategy and business wider senior management teams, deliver against this strategy.
Further details on remuneration and how the Remuneration Another key role of the Board and of our governance framework Committee operates are set out on pages 144 to 166. in relation to the pursuit of our strategy, is the oversight and For our governance arrangements to operate effectively and management of risk and internal controls, in accordance with the for the strategy to be delivered, it is also essential that our Code.
The Board determines the nature and extent of the principal Board and senior management composition is appropriate.
risks it is willing to take to achieve the strategy and is additionally Our Nomination Committees role is to ensure that the Board responsible for assessing and monitoring the Groups risks, and its committees have the right combination of diversity, skills, including emerging risks to ensure the effective operation of the experience and knowledge: that appropriate succession planning Company in achieving its objectives.
Risk, our risk management is in place for the Board and senior management teams: and framework and our internal control framework is overseen by the to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for the Group Risk Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board.
development of a diverse pipeline of succession to the Board The Group Risk Committee assists the Board by taking an active and senior management roles.
Further details on the work role in defining risk appetite and monitoring the risk management  is set out on pages 120 to 124. and internal controls systems across the Group.
There is significant As such, our governance provides the framework for the effective focus on the risk culture within the organisation which is overseen running of the Group, supporting appropriate decision-making that by the Group Risk Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Group balances the interests of our stakeholders.
High quality decision Risk Committee considers the Group risk appetite, the nature and making is essential for the effective delivery of our strategy and extent of the risks facing the Group, including the framework to assuch, long-term value and success.
mitigate such risks and notifies the Board of changes to status andcontrol of risks across the Group.
111 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Meetings and attendance The Board held 18 meetings during 2018, of which four were specifically related to the Rights Issue.
The table below sets out the attendance of the directors at the Board and committee meetings during the year.
The Board holds meetings at regular intervals when the Groups financial and business performance is reviewed, along with risk, IT, legal andhuman resources and strategic matters.
There is a comprehensive meeting pack and agenda which is circulated before both Board and committee meetings to allow the directors adequate opportunity to consider the matters to be discussed.
Board and committee meetings arescheduled more than a year in advance and if any director is unable to attend a meeting, they are encouraged to provide their opinions andcomment on the papers and matters to be considered when circulated before the meeting.
Meetings are structured so that appropriate time is devoted to all agenda items.
In addition to these scheduled meetings, ad hoc meetings are held outside the published cycle where circumstances require for example, to approve appointments to the Board, to deal with any material transactions or to approve .
Member attendance at Board and committee meetings in 2018 The table below sets out the Board and committee attendance during the year.
Attendance is shown as the number of meetings attended out of the total number of meetings possible for each individual director.
During 2018, the absences by directors shown below were all as aresult of other pre-planned commitments, urgent personal matters or meetings which were called at short notice.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Group risk Board committee committee committee committee Total number of meetings 18 6 2 8 5 1 Stuart Sinclair 13 16 4 4 2 2 6 6 4 4 2 Patrick Snowball 2 2 Malcolm Le May 18 18 0 1 3 Andrew Fisher 17 17 Andrea Blance 18 18 6 6 2 2 8 8 5 5 4 Rob Anderson 15 18 2 2 4 8 6 John Straw 15 18 5 5 2 2 4 5 6 David Sear 1 2 1 1 7 Paul Hewitt 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 7 ElizabethChambers 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 7 Angela Knight 3 3 2 2 1 2 2 2 1 Stuart Sinclairs attendance up until he resigned on 21 September 2018.
2 Patrick Snowballs attendance since he was appointed as Chairman on 21 September 2018.
3 Andrew Fishers attendance up until he resigned as director on 3 December 2018.
4 Rob Andersons attendance up until he resigned as a non-executive director on 11 December 2018.
5 John Straw was appointed to the Audit Committee with effect from 12 February 2018.
6 David Sears attendance up until he resigned as a nonexecutive director on 26 January 2018.
7 Paul Hewitt, ElizabethChambers and Angela Knights attendance is shown from 31 July 2018 when they were all appointed as non-executive directors.
Work of the Executive Committee during 2018 Malcolm Le May, CEO, chairs the Executive Committee, and its oversaw the successful implementation of the operational members are made up of the CFO, General Counsel and Company designproject within the home credit business and the Secretary, the managing directors of each Division, the Group HR  of CCD: Director, Group Interim Chief Risk Officer, Group Interim Chief oversaw the implementation of EU GDPR and the Data Internal Auditor, and Group Corporate Communications Director.
ProtectionAct 2018 across the Group: The Deputy Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
generated and closely monitored progress on the actions During the year, amongst other matters, the Executive Committee: arisingfrom the CPC: reviewed operational and financial performance across the Group: monitored the newly implemented Group regulatory closely monitored progress on the ROP refund programme: liaison tracker: oversaw the recruitment for, and implementation of, several reviewed and approved an updated Social Impact centralised functions including Group IT, Group HR, and Programme Proposal: Group Procurement: established and monitored the Wind Down Plan submitted reviewed and approved for recommendation to the Board a new totheFCA: and enhanced Governance and Risk Programme, including a new received updates on the implementation of SMCR within Delegated Authority Framework and Board Governance Manual, Moneybarn and CCD which comes into force on 9 December 2019. and approved an Executive Committee Governance Manual, Risk Policy Framework and Risk Appetite Framework: 112 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Division of responsibilities continued Governance framework Board Non-executive Chief Executive Chief Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent General Counsel Chairman Officer Financial Officer Independent non-executive non-executive non-executive non-executive and Company Director SID director director director director Secretary Nomination Audit Group Risk Remuneration Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee For the Disclosure Committee See more information See more information See more information See more information termsofreference see pages 120-124 pages 125-131 pages 132-136 pages 144-166 www.
com Executive Committee Members of the senior management team Executive Board Delegated Corporate Policies and Governance Manual Governance Manual Authorities Manual RiskPolicy Framework All directors are required to disclose to the Board any outside Independence of non-executive directors interests which may pose a conflict with their duty to act in the The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive bestinterests of the Company.
Further details on this process directorson appointment and annually.
In carrying out these canbefound on page 139. reviews, consideration is given to factors set out in the Code, such Patrick Snowball was appointed as non-executive Chairman as length of tenure, the ability of the director to provide objective on21 September 2018 and was determined by the Board challenge to the executive directors and the senior management tobeindependent on appointment.
teams and each directors other material commitments.
On appointment, he was also the Chairman of Sabre Insurance Each of the non-executive directors appointed during the year Group plc and IntegraFin Holdings Plc, however he stepped wereformally determined to be independent on appointment down from IntegraFin Holdings Plc on 22 August 2018 and in July2018.
Both the Nomination Committee, and the Board there have beenno material changes to his commitments since.
considered the independence of all the non-executive directors Therefore theBoard still consider that he has sufficient time at meetings held in January 2019.
Following consideration, toperform his role effectively.
and recommendation from the Nomination Committee, the Board determined that each non-executive director remained independent.
As part of this determination, the Board considered the factors required by the Code, and other relevant matters.
113 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Division of roles and responsibilities Senior Independent Chairman Chief Executive Officer Executive directors Non-executive directors Director SID Company Secretary Provides leadership Provides leadership Responsible for all Provide independent Available to address Responsible ofthe Board.
and direction of matters affecting and constructive any concerns tothe Board.
Safeguards Ensures the ofthe Group.
corporate Chairs the Executive Support the Chairman Acts as a sounding information sent governance.
Committee and makes Responsible for by ensuring effective board for to the Board is decisions on matters implementation governance across the Chairman.
fit for purpose Ensures effective affecting the operation, of strategy and the Group.
and facilitates communication Acts as a conduit for performance and performance of effective discussions.
Monitor and review the the other directors strategy of the the Group which performance of the and takes the Provides Demonstrates Groups businesses.
initiative to discuss comprehensive ethical leadership its purpose, culture Develops and any issues amongst practical legal and promotes high Bring experience and values.
support and standards of integrity.
and knowledge from strategyand long-term Provide specialist guidance to other sectors which Responsible Ensures alignment objectives of the knowledge and directors, both is of relevance to forreviewing to strategic Group for approval experience to as individuals the Group.
Encourages Responsible for dayProvides support and promotes to-day management for the Board critical discussion ofthe Group.
on corporate and appropriate governance.
are appropriate risk Responsible for Ensures Board management and communicating decisions are taken internal controls with shareholders, on a sound and wellin place.
Between 24 November 2017 and 1 February 2018, Malcolm Le May, Division of responsibility took on the role of Interim Executive Chairman acting, in effect, To ensure that the Board operates effectively and efficiently, asboth Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and therefore, for each director has certain responsibilities in line with their role.
this period, there was no clear division of responsibilities between These are set out in the diagram above.
The composition of the the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
As reported last Board is subject to continual review and appointments result year, however, following a recruitment process, Malcolm Le May from a combination of effective succession planning, and formal was appointed as Group Chief Executive Officer on 1 February and rigorous searches.
Further information on this can be found 2018, and Stuart Sinclair stepped up to be Interim Chairman whilst intheNomination Committee report on pages 120 to 124. a recruitment process was undertaken for a new independent non-executive Chairman.
Details on the recruitment processes undertaken during 2018 are outlined on page 123.
114 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Composition, induction and evaluation Appointing the right directors to the Board who are able to make valuable contributions is one of the key elements of Board effectiveness.
Patrick Snowball Chairman Composition Board changes: Board composition Board appointments are reviewed and approved by the Board based The right Board composition is important as it supports the effective on a recommendation from the Nomination Committee.
On joining, operation of the Board and therefore the successful delivery of the non-executive directors receive a formal appointment letter and Groups strategy.
Important factors in our Board composition are executive directors receive a formal service contract, which identifies diversity and the appropriate balance of skills and experience, as this the time commitment expected of them.
The terms and conditions ensures that each Board member is able to effectively challenge and of appointment of non-executive directors and service contracts so enhances the Boards ability to work effectively as a unit.
ofexecutive directors are available to shareholders for inspection As reported last year, prior to the appointment of Malcolm atthe Groups registered office during normal business hours.
LeMay asCEO on 1 February 2018, the Group had gone through During 2018, the following changes to the Board took place: a significant number of changes in its leadership.
Since then, on 26 January 2018, David Sear stepped down from the Board.
the Boardhas recruited three new non-executive directors on 1 February 2018, Malcolm Le May was appointed Group CEO, andanewnon-executive Chairman.
Stuart Sinclair was appointed Interim Non-Executive Chairman As a result of the Board changes, which are described in more andAndrea Blance was appointed Senior Independent Director.
detail throughout this report, the Board currently consists of on 31 July 2018, ElizabethChambers, Paul Hewitt and eightmembers, including the non-executive Chairman, one senior AngelaKnightwere appointed as non-executive directors.
independent director, four independent non-executive directors, on 21 September 2018, Stuart Sinclair stepped down from the and two executive directors.
Biographical details of all directors Board, and from his appointment as Interim Non-Executive aregiven on pages 94 to 97.
Chairman and Patrick Snowball was appointed as nonThe Board is of sufficient size and has the appropriate skills, executive Chairman.
experience and independence to enable it to undertake its role on 3 December 2018, Andrew Fisher stepped down from the effectively.
Following the new appointments, the composition of Boardas Group Finance Director and Simon Thomas was thecommittees was refreshed and more details on this can be appointed as Group Chief Finance Officer.
foundin each committee report on pages 120, 125 and 132. as reported last year, Rob Anderson agreed to continue as a nonThe composition, skills and effectiveness of the Board are executive director until 31 December 2018 to provide support to the reviewedannually.
The Board ensures a diverse pool of candidates Board whilst it underwent the recruitment process to strengthen its isconsidered for any vacancy which arises and any appointments composition notwithstanding he fact he had served for nine years aremade based on merit, having regard to the skills, competencies on the Board.
Following the recruitment of three new non-executive and experience of the candidate.
directors and a new non-executive Chairman, Rob felt it was time tostep down from the Board on 11 December 2018.
John Straw has informed the Board that he does not intend to stand for re-election at the 2019 AGM and will step down as a Director with effect from 20 May 2019.
Directors Board tenure as at 13 March 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Totals Andrea Blance 1 year, 11 months Elizabeth Chambers 6 months Paul Hewitt 6 months Angela Knight 6 months 12 months Malcolm Le May 2 months 3 years, 9 months Patrick Snowball 4 months John Straw 2 years, 1 month Simon Thomas 2 months Malcolm Le May: Chief Executive Ocer Interim Executive Chairman Non-executive director 115 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Induction for new Directors Board Induction On joining the Board, all new directors receive a comprehensive and tailored induction programme, comprising a combination of site visits and meetings with other senior management.
The aim of the induction is to ensure that all new directors are familiar with the business, itspurpose, culture and values.
More details on the general induction programmes for our new directors is set out below.
Non-executive induction programme One to one meetings with key individuals Site visits New directors meet with senior management including, but Directors undertake various site visits as part of their induction notlimited to, the members of the Executive Committee and the programme.
This includes a visit to the main offices of each Divisional Managing Directors.
The directors specific induction will ofthe businesses and spending time with employees across also be tailored to the role they are appointed to, therefore other the businesses at different operational levels to gain a thorough senior management induction meetings may also include meetings understanding of the business, its culture, its customers and its with Group Internal Audit, Group Finance, the Divisional Chief products.
Its crucial to the Group that the Board understands not Finance Directors and the Divisional Chief Risk Officers.
only how the business operates, but how it treats its customers and its employees on a day to day basis.
These induction site One to one meetings with key stakeholders visits include: The directors also meet any key stakeholder that may be time spent within the operations of CCD in the Groups Head importantor relevant to the specific role the director has Office in Bradford and with management who are responsible assumed.
This may include meetings with the Groups key forthe home credit and Satsuma brands.
advisorsand brokers, representatives from the FCA and one-to-one meetings with senior management at Vanquis PrudentialRegulatory Authority PRA, the Groups major BanksLondon office.
investors, and the Groups auditors, Deloitte LLP.
time spent in the Vanquis Bank call-centre meeting a variety Induction materials of employees and gaining an understanding of the direct Each new director is provided with full access to an electronic contact the business has with its customers.
Time is also reading room, which includes induction material, such as various spent with the customer service team listening to calls, and relevant policies, terms of reference, Group organisation charts, receiving presentations which provide an overview on fraud, the latest trading statements, annual report and accounts, recent collections, analytics and customers services.
shareholder information and broker notes as well as recent and time spent at Moneybarns Head Office in Petersfield, meeting relevant regulatory correspondence.
the senior management team and gaining an understanding Field visits ofthe business operations in more depth which includes As part of the induction programme for Board members are havingone to one sessions with the members of the encouraged to go on a customer visit with a Customer Experience MoneybarnExecutive Committee.
We find this gives an insight into not just how the home credit product operates, but also how important the customer relationship is to the business.
Each Board member also undertakes a field visit which includes spending time at a regional home credit office with local management who give an overview of the home credit operation and how the team, together with the Customer Experience Manager, work towards achieving best customer outcomes.
116 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Composition, induction and evaluation continued Induction for new Directors continued Ongoing Board Training and Development Training provided to the Board during The Board is kept up-to-date with relevant laws and regulations the Rights Issue andreceives a report at each Board meeting from the General Throughout the Rights Issue process, the Board had engaged Counsel and Company Secretary.
Regular updates are also advisors to provide individual directors with advice and training providedon relevant legal, corporate governance and financial on their responsibilities.
reporting developments and directors are also encouraged toattendexternal seminars on areas of relevance to their role.
At its Board meeting on 21 November 2017, Clifford Chance provided training to the Board on the draft Prospectus, explaining The Board programme includes regular presentations from each section of the content, and the directors responsibilities in management and informal meetings to build the directors relation to the statements in the Prospectus.
They also explained understanding of the business and sector.
This year the Board held the nature and scope of the director responsibility letters which its CPC in June 2018 to review and develop the Groups strategy.
each director was required to sign.
The CPC is attended by all Board members and Executive Committee members, along with other senior management and the agenda At its Board meeting on 23 January 2018, JP Morgan did a Rights included discussions and presentations around competition, the Issue Teach-in to the Board, which summarised the mechanics future of credit markets and its customers, technology, regulation, of a rights issue and highlighted the key considerations for the and culture as well as on specific business strategy issues.
At the same meeting Clifford Chance gave a further presentation on directors responsibilities.
The Board also held an additional offsite strategy day on 8 January 2018 to discuss the difficulties faced by the Group during 2017 At its Board meeting on 6 February 2018, Deloitte LLP gave and to re-set the future direction of the Group, re-affirm the tone a presentation on the Financial Position and Prospects from the top regarding the Groups purpose, vision, mission FPP workstream the basis of which was to demonstrate and values and set an action plan to achieve these objectives.
that the Group had an appropriate level of governance The event was attended by the Board, its Executive Committee and internal controls over its financial reporting processes.
andother key individuals from the senior management team This presentationincluded an introduction to FPP and aswellasexternal advisors.
Appropriate training is made available to any newly appointed Prior to the Boards approval of the Rights Issue, both JP Morgan director.
During 2018, each member of the Board signed up and Clifford Chance delivered training to the Board which covered: to theDeloitte Academy, which provides a broad programme the importance of ensuring that the information contained ofbriefings, education and bespoke training for both executive inthe final Prospectus was accurate, complete and not andnon-executive board members.
misleading, and directors liability under English civil and The Audit Committee received a teach in session from the criminallaw for its contents: GroupFinance Function in September 2018 relating to significant the importance of the verification exercise in relation assumptions and the treatment of the IFRS9 accounting standard.
tothe Prospectus: All directors also have access to the advice and services ofthe the potential liabilities arising from an offering of ordinary General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary shares under US securities laws: isalso the secretary to all the Board committees, with the the ongoing obligation of the Group to control and disclose exceptionof the Disclosure Committee.
The Board obtains to the market price sensitive information, emphasising the advicefrom professional advisors as and when required.
importance placed by the FCA on inside information: the restrictions on dealings in the ordinary shares of the Company: and the general obligations on the directors to comply with theListing Rules, and the Code.
117 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Board evaluation in the second half of the year: a new CEO and CFO, the arrival Board evaluation: monitoring of  directors: a new Chairman and the  departure ofthree non-executive directors: with many ofthe changes taking place in the second half of the year.
Given the We recognise that a key cornerstone of corporate governance is level ofchange, this years evaluation process was designed to an effective Board: and as such the Board needs to continuously give anearly initial insightinto effectiveness, reflecting the fact monitor and improve its performance in order to remain effective, that theBoard is a newteam, with the majority of the Board only supporting the long-term success of the Company.
beinginrole for partof2018, and is led by a new Chairman who Each year the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation wasonly appointedon 21 September 2018. of its own performance, the performance of its committee and We set out more details about this years process and outcome individual directors: this gives us an opportunity to reflect on below, together with updates on the actions identified last year.
The conclusions of this years review have been positive and It is important for the effectiveness of this process that this good confirmed that the Board and its Committees were performing governance principle is applied in a way that reflects the Companys effectively, the balance of the Board agenda was moving in the circumstances and Board composition.
We reported last year that rightdirection and that the Directors felt able to contribute Lintstock had been appointed to undertake an external Board inanopen andchallenging environment.
evaluation over a three year period up to 2018.
The Board has seen significant change in its composition this year, and particularly Board evaluation 2017 As reported last year, the 2017 Board and Committee evaluation, undertaken by Lintstock, identified the following focus areas.
An update onsteps taken during 2018 is also provided.
Area Activities during 2018 Board We achieved a key priority with the appointment of Malcolm Le May as CEO.
The Board believes that Malcolm Le May was composition anoutstanding candidate for the role, given his existing knowledge of the Group, his deep knowledge of the business and sector, his regulatory understanding, together with his turn-around and leadership skills.
As reported on page 93, we were pleased to appoint three new experienced non-executive directors to the Board in July.
These three new non-executive directors bring a wealth of experience and expertise to the Board, including in particular financial, consumer finance and regulatory experience.
They have enhanced the capabilities of the Board.
In July, we also announced the appointment of a new Chairman to lead the Board from September 2018 onwardsPatrick Snowball is an experienced Chairman, non-executive director and CEO, and has extensive experience in financial services, and a strong background in delivering good customer outcomes, ensuring strong governance and the execution of turn-arounds.
Board The Board appointments described above have strengthened the Boards capabilities, including in relation to customer and expertise regulatory understanding and culture.
The Board has approved a mechanism and approach on how to secure workforce engagement, as set out on page 104, which will enhance the whole Boards understanding of the views of the workforce once embedded during 2019.
The comprehensive induction programme for new directors, including site and customer visits, enables Board members to get a strong understanding of the Group and its stakeholders.
Board As a result of the significant number of Board changes, the Board are still developing as a new team.
Additional informal dynamics meetings of the Board members around each Board meeting have been introduced and it is intended that key members ofthesenior management teams will attend these dinners during 2019.
Board During 2018 there has been increased focus on ensuring the Board receives the information it needs to carry out its role support inatimely manner.
To support this, a Board and committee paper submission report is utilised to ensure that the Board are clear about what input is required, what the key risks are and what the impact of any proposal is on the Companys stakeholders, including its customers.
At its December 2018 meeting, the Board approved a proposal for the Company Secretarial team to lead a fundamental review of Board and Committee reporting across the Group, in order to identify enhancements.
Oversight A Group governance project has been undertaken to clarify the roles and responsibilities across the Board, its Committees ofoperating andthe wider Group, including our subsidiaries.
At its December 2018 meeting, the Board approved a Board Governance divisions Manual and Delegated Authorities Manual, which are key elements of the Groups governance framework, together with anExecutive Governance Manual.
The Board and Executive Committee receive updates on the performance of the Group and each of the Divisions at each meeting.
The directors also engaged with directors of Divisional operating companies duringtheyear to ensure they were kept informed of divisional board matters.
Risk and regulatory reporting enhancements have been implemented, including a regulatory tracker to monitor Group andDivisional regulatory matters and engagement.
118 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Composition, induction and evaluation continued Board evaluation continued Area Activities during 2018 Management The effective use of Board time is a key focus for the Companys new Chairman.
He has enhanced the process for finalising and focus Board agendas.
Work has also been undertaken to identify the key focus areas for the Board, its committees and the Executive ofmeetings Committee for 2019, in order to ensure the commitments made to shareholders in the Rights Issue Prospectus continue tobe delivered.
Strategic The Boards role in the 2018 CPC is set out on page 100.
The Board has monitored progress on the work areas and actions oversight arising from the CPC during the year.
The Board also reviewed the Companys Blueprint, including strategic drivers.
You can read more about this on page 35.
Risk The CEO, Board and Executive Committee have led various initiatives to strengthen our risk management framework during management the year.
The improvements in this area are set out in our Group Risk Committee GRC report on pages 132 to 136.
A new and internal Chairman of the GRC has been appointed, and membership further strengthened with two further members of the Board control joining the Committee.
Following the appointment of an Group Interim Chief Risk Officer CRO, the GRC has been focused on effective oversight ofthekey risks across the Group, which has involved greater challenge on strategic risk issues, being focused on the customerand horizon scanning for emerging risks.
A new Group Risk Appetite framework has been implemented, together with Group level risk policies.
The management information and reporting in support of the risk framework has also been enhanced and now focuses on key risks facing theGroup, both current and emerging, and identifies actions to mitigate the risks.
A cross Divisional Risk forum has been created which meets monthly involving the Chairman of the GRC, Divisional CROs, theGroup Interim CRO and the Group Interim Chief Internal Auditor.
During the year a Group-wide Conduct Risk Assessment was also completed and this, together with an ongoing action plan, has been submitted to the FCA.
Succession As reported above and elsewhere throughout this report, the composition of the Board has been strengthened during 2018. planning and There has also been a focus on adding centralised functions to support the Divisions.
This has included the appointment human resource ofaGroup Director of Communications, a Group Data Protection Officer, a Group HR Director, a Group Head of Reward, management aGroup Chief Information Officer and a Group Chief Information Security Officer.
A Group Interim Chief Internal Auditor was appointed during the year.
Board evaluation 2018 Given the significant and far reaching 1.
Board review Board changes, as described above, questionnaire Board members oftheoutcome Following the one-toPatrick Snowball asked Andrea andaction one interviews, the SID Blance, Senior Independent Director A series of questions were Through a series of planproposal analysed the Directors SID to facilitate this years Board and designed, in collaboration one-to-one interviews, responses to the questions Committee evaluation process.
with Lintstock, to seek the SID reviewed the The Board reviewed and the discussions that input from Board members Directors responses to the outcome of the Having been on the Board through were held.
The SID then on the effectiveness and the questionnaire and interview process and the whole of 2018, being appointed compiled a confidential composition including anyother issues raised.
the recommended in March 2017, Andrea has played a and non-attributable diversity of the Board TheSID did not interview actions.
It considered key role in ensuring continuity on the report with recommended and its Committees, how Simon Thomas as he had the effectiveness of the Board: as such, Andrea was able to improvement actions for the Board was operating only very recently joined Board, its Committees utilise her knowledge of the Group discussion by the Board.
following the membership theBoard during December and individual directors.
and her experience, including of The SID shared the report changes which had been 2018 and had only attended the events of 2017, to develop the with the Non-executive implemented during the one Board meeting.
Directors prior to the year, and the performance Boardmeeting.
The process can be summarised asfollows: 119 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Outcome of the evaluation process: Board and Committees Actions There was an expectation that effectiveness would be enhanced As always there are some areas that provide room for improvement.
as the new Board members increased their knowledge of the The following key areas were identified, which the Board agreed to Group and its businesses following completion of their extensive action, following a recommendation from the SID and Chairman: induction programmes: Whilst the view was that the focus of time on the agendas was There were positive initial views on the diversity and composition appropriate at this point, there was a need to increase the focus of of the newly composed Board and a feeling that the skillset of the agendas on the key strategic issues which it was agreed would add new directors was complementary: and value for the Groups various stakeholders, as the Board members knowledge of the Group and its businesses began to increase.
There was an agreement that Board members acted in a collegiate Responsibility: Chairman.
New Board members to continue deepening their understanding Following the Boards discussion on the findings of this years of the Group and its businesses.
evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees, it was agreed that in general, the Board and its Committees were Individual Director Performance, performing effectively, discharging their duties and responsibilities.
Independence and Re-appointment The composition of our Board is reviewed annually by the Outcome of the evaluation process: Chairman nomination committee to ensure that there is an effective balance As noted above, as part of our annual evaluation process, ofskills, experience and knowledge.
Andrea Blance, as SID, led an early initial review of the Chairmans performance, tailored to reflect the fact that Patrick had only been Having undertaken a review of the skills, experience and knowledge in post since the 21 September and focused on a number of areas, of the Board, the Nomination Committee considered the including: independence and time commitment of the directors, including the Chairman.
Following recommendations from the Nomination the overall effectiveness of the Chairman: Committee, the Board determined that all Directors continue to the Chairmans working relationship with the CEO and nonbecommitted to their roles, have sufficient time available to perform executive directors: their duties and perform effectively.
As such, all the Directors will be whether and how the Chairman fostered an open, inclusive seeking election or re-election by the shareholders at the 2019 AGM, atmosphere in Board meetings, and encouraged participation with the exception of John Straw who has informed the Board that byall members: and hedoes not intend to stand for re-election at the 2019 AGM.
the Chairmans priorities for the Board.
The independence of the Non-executive Directors is considered As part of the process Andrea Blance interviewed Board members in atleast annually along with their character, judgement, commitment private sessions.
It was concluded that the Chairman was performing and performance.
The Board took into consideration the Code his role of leading the Board effectively.
Andrea Blance discussed the and indicators of potential non-independence, including length feedback and areas for development with the Chairman.
At year end, all of the Non-executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, whose independence is only determined on appointment, have been determined by the Boardtobe independent.
Next year A rigorous and formal evaluation will also be undertaken next year.
Whilst under the 2018 Code we are not required to undertake an external evaluation, the Chairman and Board will review and determine the most appropriate evaluation process.
