28 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Report of the Audit & Risk Committee Introduction Responsibilities On behalf of the Board, and as Chair of the Audit & Risk The Audit & Risk Committee assists the Board and has the Committee, I am pleased to present the Committees report for following responsibilities business as usual : the year ended 31 May 2018.
This sets out how the Committee Financial Reporting: including monitoring the integrity of has carried out its responsibilities during the year and provides the Financial Statements and announcements relating to detail on the Committees principal activities.
the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting requirements, issues and judgements: Committee membership Internal Control: including reviewing the adequacy and During the year ended 31 May 2018, the Committee members effectiveness of the Groups systems processes for internal were: financial control: Mr Maiden Committee Chair Internal Audit: including reviewing the effectiveness and output of the Groups Internal Audit function and internal Mrs Minick-Scokalo with effect from her appointment to the audit programme: Board on 1 May 2018 External Audit: including oversight of all matters Mr Nicolson associated with the appointment, terms, remuneration Mrs Owers until she stepped down from the Committee on and performance of the External Auditor and for reviewing 1May 2018 the scope, results and quality of the audit and its cost Ms Edozien until she retired from the Board on 27 effectiveness: September 2017 Risk Management: including reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems The Company Secretary, Mr Plant, is Secretary to the and assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, Committee.
ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The Board as a The experience of each Committee member is summarised on whole conducts a robust review of the principal risks and pages 2 and 3.
I have held a number of senior finance director uncertainties facing the Group and the output of this review roles and am Group Finance Director of Croda International forms the basis of the risk management work undertaken by Plc, the FTSE 100 speciality chemicals business.
The Board the Committee during the year: and considers each member of the Committee is independent Whistle-blowing and Fraud: reviewing the adequacy of the within the definition of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Groups whistle-blowing arrangements and procedures for Code the Code and they bring a broad and diverse spread detecting fraud.
of commercial experience, such that the Board is provided with assurance that the Committee has the appropriate skills and In addition, the Committee selects certain key focus areas each experience to ensure that it can be fully effective and meets year for review, which are set out below.
the Code requirement that at least one member has significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
More detail on the responsibilities of the Committee is set out in the Committees terms of reference, which can be found at The Committee meets regularly with the External Auditor www.
and representatives attend the meetings.
The Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk also attends all Committee meetings.
The Non-executive Chair and the Executive Directors are not members of the Committee but they attend meetings, where appropriate, by invitation, along with the Head of External Reporting and the Group Financial Controller.
The Committee periodically, and I more regularly, meet separately with the External Auditor, without the Executives being present.
I also meet separately with the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk before each meeting.
This helps me to better understand the key issues and to ensure that sufficient time is devoted to them at the subsequent meeting.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 29 Internal Audit during the year, the Committee approved the Key focus areas during the year appointment of a new Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk During the year, in addition to its usual activities, and the strengthening of the Groups internal audit capability theCommittee looked at the following focus areas: through further appointments to the team in Africa and Key agenda item Audit & Risk Committee input Europe.
The Committee reviewed and approved the internal Areas of The Committee received regular updates from audit plan for the year and, at each meeting, received a report significant management on the five areas considered to have from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk on the principal financial significant financial judgement applied.
These are internal audit activities, issues raised and the adequacy of judgement set out below.
The Committee also approved SAP Control The Committee reviewed the results of the design additional assurance expertise for specific risk areas through Environment and implementation testing of SAP controls within the appointment of a co-source partner.
This provided assurance over the effectiveness of the control processes, following the roll-out of SAP, and the plan to expand these Risk Management the Committee is responsible for over time.
identifying, assessing and prioritising the principal risks facing Audit Transition The Committee received regular updates on the Group and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate Process both the process of transition and progress of action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks in line on-boarding Deloitte LLP as the External Auditor.
with an approved framework of risk limits and risk appetite.
Further information set out below.
During the year, the Committee working with management Group The Committee considered the steps taken to and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk reviewed Internal Audit further develop the Groups Internal Audit function, its approach to risk identification and management and put Development to create a more holistic risk-based programme and in place a new Risk Management Policy and procedure that and Risk to manage follow-up of individual risk events.
Management identifies material risks facing the Group, informed by both Framework top-down reviews by the Groups Executive Committee Trade The Committee reviewed the control environment and bottom-up reviews by business units and functions.
promotional surrounding the accounting for and reporting of The Committee then undertakes ongoing reviews of spend trade promotional spend, a major expenditure area managements plans to eliminate, reduce or transfer risk where for the Group.
The Committee is also responsible for encouraging FRC review The Committee reviewed the results of the FRCs and supporting two-way communications in respect of risk review of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts issues within the business and with external stakeholders to 31 May 2017, as set out below.
including shareholders, suppliers and customers.
The key risks that the Committee reviewed are set out on pages 38 Some of these areas are discussed in more detail below.
and 39 of the Strategic Report.
During the year, the Board as a whole conducted a robust review of the principal risks and Business as usual activity uncertainties facing the Group and the output of this review The Committee routinely reviewed the key Financial formed the basis of the work undertaken by the Committee Statements and announcements of the Group.
At the request during the year.
of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and Whistle-blowing the Committee also reviews and approves understandable and whether they provided the necessary arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise information for shareholders to assess the Groups position, concerns about possible improprieties in matters of ethical performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee business practice, financial reporting or other matters.
This was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2018 Annual Report is achieved through using a third party reporting facility that and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
accommodates telephone, web and email contacts and allows anonymity on request.
The Committee received regular The Committees routine work on internal control is set out in reports on matters raised via this facility and on the related the Report on Corporate Governance.
External Audit the Committee reviewed and approved the external audit plan including the transition of the external audit from  LLP to Deloitte LLP see below following the decision to change External Auditors, reported in 2017: an assessment of significant audit risks: the scope of the audit: an assessment of the key members of the external audit team: and the independence of the External Auditor see below.
The Committee also reviewed and agreed the external audit fee.
30 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Report of the Audit & Risk Committee continued External Auditor independence External Auditor effectiveness During the year, the Committee reviewed its Provision of NonIt is the Committees usual practice to undertake a detailed Audit Services Policy to ensure its continuing suitability and review of the performance and effectiveness of the effectiveness and its compliance with the Financial Reporting External Auditor in performing the audit, informed by the Councils Guidance on Audit Committees 2016 and Revised output from a questionnaire completed by senior finance Ethical Standard 2016.
The Policy recognises the criticality of personnel across the Group.
In view of the retirement of the independence and objectivity of the External Auditor and  LLP and the appointment of the importance that this is not impaired by the provision of Deloitte LLP as External Auditor, the Committee did not non-audit services.
The Policy also recognises, however, that consider that this was necessary.
The Committee however, it may be beneficial for the External Auditor to provide certain considered the quality and key content of the reports from services because of its existing knowledge of the business  LLP and consulted the Chief Financial or because the information required is a by-product of the Officer and members of the Group Finance team to identify key audit process.
In these circumstances, the External Auditor learnings to apply going forward in respect of the relationship is permitted to provide certain non-audit services where and ways of working with the new Auditor.
these are not, and are not perceived to be, in conflict with itsindependence.
External Auditor reappointment Taking into account the audit tender process concluded last The Policy identifies services that are prohibited and those year and the performance of Deloitte LLP in its first year as that are permitted subject to formal approval.
Prohibited External Auditor, the Committee has recommended to the services include those where the External Auditor participates Board that Deloitte LLP be offered for reappointment at the in activities that are normally undertaken by management, 2018 Annual General Meeting.
is remunerated through a success fee or similar, or may be required to audit its own work including tax services, legal FRC review of 2017 Annual Report and Accounts services, internal audit work and internal control or risk In March 2018, the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review team management procedures.
Other non-audit services may informed the Group that its 2017 Annual Report and Accounts be undertaken by the External Auditor where it has the had been selected for review as part of the FRCs monitoring requisite skills and experience, it is considered to be the most activity to stimulate improvements in the quality of corporate appropriate to undertake such work in the best interests of reporting.
The Committee reviewed the correspondence the Group, the provision of such services does not impair its between management and the FRC on the queries raised and independence and objectivity and the related fees both ispleased to report that all outstanding matters are closed in respect of individual services and in aggregate are not with no adjustments required to the Financial Statements.
material relative to the Group external audit fee.
Any services attracting a fee of more than 10,000 must first be approved The following limitation of scope was included in the letter by the Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee, with any services provided to the Group: inexcess of 50,000 requiring prior full Committee approval.
S cope and limitations of our review All assignments are monitored by the Committee.
Details of Our review is based on your annual report and accounts and the amounts paid to the External Auditor were 0.8m 2017: does not benefit from detailed knowledge of your business 1.1m during the year, comprising 0.8m 2017: 0.8m for or an understanding of the underlying transactions entered audit services and nil 2017: 0.3m for other services as set into.
It is, however, conducted by staff of the FRC who have an out in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
We support continuous improvement in the quality of corporate In conclusion and taking into account the appointment of a new reporting and recognise that those with more detailed Auditor and the application of the revised Provision of Nonknowledge of your business, including your audit committee and Audit Services Policy, the Committee is satisfied that Deloitte auditors, may have recommendations for future improvement, LLP was independent at all times during the year under review.
consideration of which we would encourage.
T his and any subsequent letters provide no assurance that your report and accounts are correct in all material respects: the FRC's role is not to verify the information provided but to consider compliance with reporting requirements.
O ur letters are written on the basis that the FRC which includes the FRC's officers, employees and agents accepts no liability for reliance on them by the Company or any third party, including but not limited to investors and shareholders.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 31 Classification of exceptional items: The Committee Financial reporting and significant financial discussed the treatment and disclosure of amounts included judgements within exceptional items and noted that such items reflected The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting the way in which they, as members of the Board, reviewed policies have been adopted and whether management has the underlying performance of the Group, were treated made appropriate estimates and judgements.
During the consistently year on year and were disclosed appropriately.
year, the Committee reviewed accounting papers prepared by management that provided details on the main financial Direct tax provisions: Judgements have to be made by reporting judgements.
The Committee also reviewed reports management on the tax treatment of a number of transactions by the External Auditors on the half year and full year results, in advance of the ultimate tax determination being known.
which highlighted any issues arising from the work undertaken In assessing the appropriateness of the provision recognised in respect of the half year review and year end audit.
The in respect of uncertain tax provisions, the Committee specific areas of audit and accounting judgement reviewed by considered a report from management setting out the basis the Committee were: for the assumptions made.
The Committee concluded that the position taken on uncertain direct tax provisions was Agreement of Naira exchange rate for translation: As a result appropriate.
of the evolution of the foreign exchange market in Nigeria, the Committee assessed the Groups move to a position where Committee effectiveness it is now predominantly accessing US Dollars at the NIFEX As part of the Board evaluation process, the Committee rate, one of the three official rates of exchange in existence assessed its effectiveness and concluded that it was operating in Nigeria.
As a result of this shift, in May 2018 the Committee well, supported by good quality inputs from management.
reassessed the likely rate of settlement of the Groups Nigerian Continued improvement remains a key objective for us.
US Dollar monetary assets and liabilities and concluded that it was appropriate for the Group to move from translating at the I will be available at the 2018 Annual General Meeting to Central Bank of Nigeria CBN rate to the NIFEX exchange rate respond to any questions that shareholders may have from 31 May 2018 onwards.
The Committee agreed with the andtodiscuss the Committees activities during the year.
Jez Maiden Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets: The Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee Groups goodwill and other intangible assets are a material 24 July 2018 Balance Sheet item.
Impairment reviews are performed based on key judgements including forecasts and estimates of future business performance and cash generation, discount rates and long-term growth rates.
The Committee reviewed managements analysis and was comfortable with the key assumptions applied and managements conclusion that no impairment was required.
Defined benefit obligations: The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are material to its financial position.
The amounts shown in the Balance Sheet are highly sensitive to changes in key actuarial assumptions.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the appropriateness and consistency of these assumptions with management.
During the year the Group retrospectively applied a change in accounting policy with regard to the recognition of pension surpluses.
The Committee reviewed and approved this change, as well as the disclosures required to reflect the change to readers of the Financial Statements.
