32 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Report on Corporate Governance The Board is committed to meeting the standards of good Diversity corporate governance as established by the Financial Reporting The Company supports the Code provision that boards should Council.
In respect of the year ended 31 May 2018, the 2016 consider the benefits of diversity, including gender, when UK Corporate Governance Code the Code applied to the making appointments and is committed to ensuring diversity Company.
The Code is publicly available on the Financial not just at board level but also across the Companys senior Reporting Councils website www.
management team, not least because it believes that the business benefits from a wide range of perspectives and This report, together with the Report on Directors backgrounds.
The Companys aim, as regards the composition Remuneration in respect of remuneration matters and the of the Board, is that it should have a balance of experience, separate statements from the Chairs of each of the Audit & skills and knowledge to enable each Director, and the Board Risk and Nomination Committees, describes how the Board as a whole, to discharge their duties effectively.
The Boards applied the Code during the year under review.
approach to diversity is set out in the Statement of the Chair of the Nomination Committee on page 26, whilst further details on diversity within the business are set out in the Report of the Board evaluation Directors on page 6.
Composition and independence The size of the Board allows individuals to communicate openly Performance evaluation and to make a personal contribution through the exercise of their individual skills and experience.
As at the date of this Effectiveness reviews of the Board and its committees, report, the Board of Directors has eight members comprising including their composition, governance and performance, are the Non-executive Chair, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief carried out annually.
Following last years externally facilitated Financial Officer and five other Non-executive Directors.
The review, the Boards performance and effectiveness has been names of the Directors together with their biographical details facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in conjunction with are set out on pages 2 to 3. the Chair of the Board, prepared a detailed questionnaire relating to the composition, governance and performance of The Non-executive Directors have been appointed for their the Board for completion by the Directors.
The results of that specific experience and expertise and are all considered to exercise have been reviewed by the Chair of the Board and by be independent of management and free from any business each Board committee, discussed in a formal meeting and the or other relationship that could materially interfere with the recommendations recorded and acted upon.
exercise of their independent judgement.
The review process that was undertaken during the year Mr Nicolson is the Senior Independent Director and in this concluded that all Directors continue to contribute effectively capacity he is available to shareholders if they have concerns and with proper commitment, devoting adequate time to that contact through the normal channels of Chair, Chief carry out their duties.
The performance of the Non-executive Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve Directors is evaluated separately by the Executive Directors.
or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Remuneration Committee reviews Executive Directors performance with guidance from the Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Directors may serve on the boards of other other than in respect of his own position.
companies provided that this does not involve a conflict of interest and that the appointment does not restrict their ability Operation of the Board to discharge their duties to the Company in any way.
The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, monitoring its business objectives and As set out in the Report of the Directors, the Board has maintaining a system of effective corporate governance.
resolved to comply with the provisions of the Code and each Director seeks re-election annually.
In view of the existence Six formal meetings of the Board were scheduled during the of a group of controlling shareholders see the Report of the year and the Directors met on a number of further occasions Directors on page 5, the election or re-election of independent as necessary to consider specific matters arising and to review Directors is subject to a dual shareholder vote at the Annual and develop the Companys corporate strategy.
General Meeting, pursuant to which re-election or election must be approved by a majority vote of the shareholders The differing roles of the Chair and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and, separately, by a majority vote of the are acknowledged and set out in terms of reference that have shareholders of the Company excluding the controlling been adopted by the Board.
The Chair is primarily responsible shareholders.
for the running of the Board and ensuring that it is supplied in a timely manner with sufficient information to enable it to The Executive Directors service contracts and the letters discharge its duties.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible setting out the terms of appointment of the Non-executive for coordinating the running of the business and implementing Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Group strategy.
registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 33 All Directors communicate with each other on a regular Details of the principal standing committees of the Board are basis and have regular and ready access to members of the set out as follows: Groups management team.
Senior executives are regularly invited to attend Board meetings to make presentations Nomination Committee on specific matters or projects.
Board papers are prepared The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly and issued to all Directors in good time prior to each Board reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, meeting to enable Directors to give due consideration to identifying and recommending appropriate candidates for all matters in advance of the meeting.
During the year, the membership of the Board when vacancies arise and ensuring Board has maintained an understanding of the views of major that effective succession planning procedures are in place for shareholders through periodic face-to-face meetings and senior roles.
briefings from the Companys advisors.
Details of the Committee members, its responsibilities and The Board has adopted formal procedures for Directors to its principal activities and priorities during the year are set take independent professional advice where necessary at the out in the separate Statement of the Chair of the Nomination Companys expense and each Director has full access to the Committee.
services of the Company Secretary who is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and all applicable rules and Remuneration Committee regulations are followed.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration The Board has an approved and documented schedule of of the Executive Directors and senior executives, which the matters reserved for its decision, including approval of the Board as a whole is responsible for approving.
It is responsible Groups strategy, annual budgets, material agreements and for evaluating the performance and determining specific major capital expenditure and acquisitions, the approval of remuneration packages for each Executive Director, the Chair financial arrangements, and the monitoring of performance, and the Company Secretary.
With the exception of the Nonhealth, safety, environmental matters and risk management executive Chair, the fees of the Non-executive Directors are procedures.
determined by the Executive Directors.
The Board has also adopted a formal induction process for Further details of the Committee members, its responsibilities Directors including visits to principal sites and meetings with and activities during the year and of Directors remuneration operating management.
Training sessions have been organised are set out in the Statement of the Chair of the Remuneration during the year for the Board on matters considered relevant Committee on page 8. to the discharge of the Directors duties and Directors may take additional training where necessary as part of their continuing Audit & Risk Committee development at the expense of the Company.
The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing, onbehalf of the Board, the Groups accounting and financial policies, its disclosure practices, internal controls, internal Committees of the Board audit and risk management.
It is responsible for overseeing all The Board has established a number of standing committees matters associated with the appointment, terms, remuneration to which various matters are delegated according to defined and performance of the External Auditor and for reviewing the terms of reference.
The terms of reference of the committees scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
are available on the Companys website www.
com and will also be available at the Annual General Meeting.
Further details of the Committee members, responsibilities and activities during the year are set out in the Report of the As is commented upon in more detail within the Statement of Audit & Risk Committee on page 28. the Chair of the Nomination Committee, during the year the composition of the standing Board committees was reviewed.
Previously each independent Non-executive Director sat on every committee but, with effect from 1 May 2018, the membership of each committee was reduced to enable the development of deeper expertise and facilitate more rigorous review of matters brought to them.
The membership of the principal standing committees is set out within the separate statements of the respective Chairs.
34 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Report on Corporate Governance continued Attendance at meetings The number of scheduled meetings of the Board excluding such ad hoc meetings as were necessary during the year to address specific matters arising and of each of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year ended 31May 2018, together with a record of the attendance of the current Directors who are their respective members, is detailed in the table below: Board Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Number of Number of Number of Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended Mr G A Kanellis 6 6 n a n a n a n a 5 5 Mr C G Davis 2 2 n a n a n a n a n a n a Mr B H Leigh 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a Ms N Edozien 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Mrs H Owers 6 6 5 3 4 4 5 3 Mr D Kucz 1 1 n a n a 1 1 1 1 Mr J Maiden 6 6 6 6 4 4 4 4 Mrs T Minick-Skocalo 1 1 1 1 n a n a n a n a Mr J Nicolson 6 6 6 6 3 3 4 4 Mrs C Silver 6 6 n a n a n a n a 5 5 Note: 'n a' indicates that the Director is not a member of the committee.
Mr Davis and Ms Edozien retired from the Board on 27 September 2017.
Mrs Minick-Skocalo and Mr Kucz were appointed to the Board on 1May2018, on which date the membership of Board committees was also reconstituted.
No Director participates in meetings when matters relating to him her are being discussed.
Good4Business G4B Committee Remuneration The Good4Business Committee is responsible for reviewing Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Report and developing the Companys corporate strategy to ensure onDirectors Remuneration.
that Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is an integral part of the strategy and that the Groups social, environmental and Going concern economic activities are aligned.
The Good4Business Committee The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely is responsible for the development of policies on all key areas to affect its future development, performance and position, of the Companys CSR programme Good4Business including are set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the Business Governance & Ethics, the Environment, Sourcing and Group and liquidity position are described within the Financial Community & Charity.
Further details of the Committees terms Review, which forms part of the Strategic Report.
In addition, of reference and activities during the year are set out in the Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes Good4Business section of the Strategic Report.
policies in relation to the Groups financial instruments and risk management and policies for managing credit risk, liquidity During the year ended 31 May 2018, the Committee members risk, market risk, foreign exchange risk, price risk, cash flow and were: interest rate risk and capital risk.
Mr Nicolson Committee Chair Mr Kanellis After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Mr Leigh expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period of Mrs Minick-Scokalo with effect from her appointment to the at least 12 months from the date of approving the Financial Board on 1 May 2018 Statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going Mrs Silver concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Mrs Owers and Mr Maiden until they each stepped down Statements.
A viability statement has been prepared and from the Committee on 1 May 2018 approved by the Board and this is set out on page 35 of the Ms Edozien and Mr Davis until they each retired from the Strategic Report.
Board on 27 September 2017 The Company Secretary, Mr Plant, is Secretary to the Committee.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 35 Internal control Relations with shareholders The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system In its financial reporting to shareholders the Board aims to of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a present a balanced and understandable assessment of the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk Groups financial position and prospects.
of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Company maintains a corporate website, misstatement or loss.
com, containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors and a The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for subscription email service is available that enables access identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant toCompany notifications and news releases.
risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 May 2018 and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and The Company has periodic discussions with institutional Consolidated Financial Statements, that it is regularly reviewed shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups by the Board and that it accords with the Financial Reporting performance.
The Board is also kept informed of investors Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and views through regular discussion of analysts and brokers Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The process includes: briefings and investor opinion feedback.
frequent communication between the Board and the Audit All shareholders, including private investors, have an & Risk Committee and subsidiary management on all critical opportunity to present questions to the Board at the Annual business issues: General Meeting and the Directors make themselves available regular visits to operating units by the Board, head office to meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
management and Internal Audit: regular review of budgets, forecasts, periodic reporting and General meetings of shareholders variance analysis: The business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting regular review by the Board and Audit & Risk Committee of the Company is set out in the separate Notice of Annual of risk throughout the Group and the risk management General Meeting, which accompanies the Annual Report processes in place: and and Accounts.
Resolutions put before shareholders at the taking necessary action to remedy any significant Annual General Meeting will usually include resolutions for weaknesses found as part of the review of the effectiveness the appointment of Directors, approval of the Report on of the internal control system.
Directors Remuneration, declaration of the final dividend and authorisation for the Board to allot and repurchase shares.
At Throughout the year, the Board has carried out assessments the 2018 Annual General Meeting, voting on each resolution of internal control by considering documentation from the will be by way of a poll.
At each Annual General Meeting there Executive Directors, Audit & Risk Committee and Internal Audit is an update on the progress of the business over the last year function as well as taking into consideration events since the and also on current trading conditions.
The internal controls extend to the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
The The Board will also present a resolution at the 2018 Annual basis for the preparation of consolidated accounts is as set General Meeting in respect of an issue in respect of past outin Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
"During the year, the Board became aware of certain issues in respect of the Company's procedures The Group continues to take steps to embed internal control for the payment of interim dividends in each of the financial and risk management further into the operations of the years ended 31 May 2012, 2013, 2016 and 2017 the ""Relevant business and to deal with areas for improvement that come Dividends"" that have resulted in an infringement of tothe attention of management and the Board."
The Group requirements of the Companies Act 2006. hasethical guidelines and a defined fraud reporting and whistle-blowing process, which are issued to all employees In the circular convening the 2018 Annual General Meeting within the Group.
the Directors will propose a resolution that will, if passed, put all potentially affected parties so far as possible in the Overall no control failings or weaknesses were identified position that they were always intended to be had the Relevant that would have a significant impact on the Group: however, Dividends been made in accordance with the requirements recommendations were raised where necessary at specific sites of the Act.
The resolution will, among other things, seek to strengthen existing processes and controls and follow-up shareholder approval for a proposed waiver of any claims audit visits were carried out at the majority of sites to ensure that the Company may have for repayment of the Relevant that agreed corrective actions were being taken.
Dividends received by shareholders and of any claims that the Company may have against the Directors in relation to the Relevant Dividends.
Further details are set out in the circular.
36 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Report on Corporate Governance continued The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the Compliance statement assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking The Directors consider that the Company complied fully with reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 May and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for 2018 and up to the date of this report.
themaintenance and integrity of the Companys website, www.
Legislation in the UK governing the Statement of Directors responsibilities preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Report on Directors Remuneration and the Group and parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, applicable law and regulations.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial the Group and parent Companys performance and position, Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors business model and strategy.
have elected to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent pages 2 and 3 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Company Financial Statements, comprising FRS 101 Reduced the Company Financial Statements, which have been Disclosure Framework and applicable law.
Under company law, prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless Accounting Practice UK Accounting Standards, comprising they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and applicable of affairs of the Group and the parent Company and of the law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, profit or loss of the Group and parent Company for that period.
financial position and result of the Company: the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, required to: give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them position and profit of the Group: and consistently: the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are development and performance of the business and the reasonable and prudent: position of the Group and Company, together with a state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European description of the principal risks and uncertainties that Union have been followed for the Group Financial itfaces.
Statements and UK Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed for the parent Company Financial By order of the Board Statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company Financial S P Plant Statements respectively: and Company Secretary prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 24 July 2018 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
