Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AN INTRODUCTION FROM OUR CHAIRMAN Mark Elliott Dear Shareholder, Non-executive This report focuses on how the Board has carried out its Chairman functions, its oversight of strategy and management activity, how it has applied good governance practices and how QinetiQ has complied with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, related regulations and guidance.
During the year under review, QinetiQ has progressed with delivery against the objectives of its vision-based strategy under the leadership of the Executive Committee.
The Board has continued to enhance, as well as provide necessary challenge to, the development and implementation of the strategy, in particular through the annual strategy meeting in October.
During the year, the Company has focused on the modernisation of the UK Defence Test and Evaluation enterprise, growing its international business and innovation.
Further details can be found on page 45 in relation to the Boarddecision-making around these topics.
As part of the process of implementing the strategy, the Board regularly reviews its own composition and size, to ensure it has the right balance of talent, skills and experience to support the Companys strategy.
We believe that equality, diversity and inclusion are fundamental for our strategy to be successful.
To achieve an optimal culture within the Group, and decisionmaking which is informed by a range of expertise, experience and cultural perspectives, we are striving for our workforce to be diverse in gender, background, age and ethnicity.
Further details on the Board Diversity Policy can be found on page 59.
The Non-executive Directors continue to bring independent judgement on key issues affecting the Group, and the Board intends to continue to provide a solid foundation of robust corporate governance to underpin the work of the executive management team as QinetiQ proceeds with its strategic campaigns.
Mark Elliott Non-executive Chairman 24 May 2018 The Board has continued to enhance, as well as provide necessary challenge to, the development and implementation of the strategy.
42 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT COMPLIANCE STATEMENT full Board effectiveness.
The skills and experience of the Boards individual members, particularly in the areas of UK Throughout the year of reporting QinetiQ has been compliant with the relevant defence and security, the commercialisation of innovative provisions of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate technologies, corporate finance and governance, international Governance Code the Code as currently in effect.
The Code and associate markets and risk management, have brought both support and guidance are publicly available on the Corporate Governance page of the FRCs website, www.
challenge to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and management team during the year.
Full biographical details The main principles of the Code focus on Leadership, Effectiveness, of all the Directors appear on pages 48 and 49.
Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with shareholders.
This statement provides an overview of how the Board has applied the main principles of the Code during the year of reporting.
The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to four principal committees, namely the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and Risk & CSR Committees.
Leadership a Security Committee and a Disclosure Committee.
Details of the work of the Committees are set out on pages 55 to 77.
1 The Role of the Board The Board of Directors represents the interests of QinetiQ B.
2 Board Appointments and its shareholders.
The Board has ensured that there is a The Nominations Committee oversees appointments to the framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk Board.
Further details of the role of the Nominations Committee to be assessed and managed, along with key policies and and its activities during the year can be found on page 59. procedures and for the business to implement strategy and monitor operational performance through the Boards direction B.
Each Non-executive Director must be able to devote sufficient time to their role as a member of the Board in order to Details of the Board and Committee membership and Directors discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
Prior to attendance at Board and Committee meetings are set out on undertaking an additional external role or appointment, the pages 46 and 47.
Directors are asked to confirm that they will continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company.
2 Division of Responsibilities The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are The Chairman is conscious that some shareholders have separate, clearly established, set out in writing and agreed concerns regarding Directors taking on too many non-executive by the Board.
Consequently, he has assessed the ability to meet the time commitments required by QinetiQ for those members of A.
3 The Chairman the Board who hold more than one other Board position, and The Chairman, working with the Company Secretary, sets the he is satisfied that all Board members are able to meet the agenda for the Board meetings and encourages an open and Companys time commitments going forward.
On appointment as Chairman in March to their work on the QinetiQ Board and its Committees, the 2010, Mark Elliott met the independence criteria as set out in members of the Board also regularly make themselves the Code.
available for Board calls, sub-committee meetings and executive leadership events.
4 The Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, B.
4 Director Training and Development subject to annual re-election in accordance with the Code.
Further details about a new Directors induction process and The Board undertakes an annual review of the independence the Directors ongoing training can be found on page 46. of the Non-executive Directors.
5 Information and Support The Non-executive Directors bring independent judgement The Chairman, working in conjunction with the Company on key issues affecting the Group and its business operations, Secretary, ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely including strategy, performance, resources and standards of and clear information.
Board papers are made available conduct.
They provide constructive challenge to management electronically allowing sufficient time for review prior to and help develop proposals on strategy.
Their independence of each meeting.
character and integrity, together with the experience and skills that they bring to their duties, prevent any individual or small All Directors have access to the advice of the Company group from dominating the decision-making of the Board as Secretary.
The Board has established a procedure whereby a whole.
Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge it necessary to do so in order to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
1 Composition of the Board The details of this years Board evaluation, which was carried The Board considers that, throughout the year, at least half of out internally, and an update on the recommendations from the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised independent the 2017 evaluation can be found on page 50.
The most recent Non-executive Directors and that the composition of the Board external review was conducted by Oliver Ziehn of Lintstock had the requisite balance of skills, experience, challenge and in 2016.
Oliver has no other connection with the Company.
judgement appropriate for the requirements of the business and The next external review is scheduled for 2019.
Corporate governance | Compliance statement QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT COMPLIANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED B.
7 Re-election D. 2 Procedure The Company requires each serving member of the Board to be The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing put forward for election or re-election at each General Meeting.
policy on Executive remuneration and fixing remuneration packages of Directors.
Further details are set out on pages 62 to 77.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the level C. Accountability and structure of remuneration for senior management.
C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting The Committees formal terms of reference can be found on the corporate governance section on the Companys website.
A summary of the statements of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements is set out on page 80.
The going concern statement and viability E. Relations with Shareholders statement are included on pages 54 and 27 respectively, and details of the process for ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders balanced and understandable are set out on page 56.
The Board fully supports the principles of the Code and also welcomes and acknowledges the Stewardship Code, both of C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control which aim to foster a more proactive governance role by major The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system shareholders.
In addition, the Board also welcomes the joint of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in guidance issued by the Institute of the Chartered Secretaries safeguarding shareholders interests and the Companys and Administrators the ICSA and the Investment Association assets.
The risk management process and the system of the IA on the Stakeholder Voice in Board Decision Making.
internal control necessary to manage risks are assessed and monitored by the Audit Committee financial risks and the Risk The Company attaches significant importance to maintaining & CSR Committee non-financial risks.
The report of the Audit an effective engagement with shareholders to ensure a mutual Committee can be found on pages 55 to 58 and the report of understanding of objectives and to deal with issues of concern.
the Risk & CSR Committee can be found on pages 60 to 61.
Responsibility for communications with shareholders rests with the Executive Directors, assisted by the Group Director, Investor Details of risk management and internal control processes can Relations and Communications.
The Company Secretary be found on pages 52 to 54.
The Strategic report, which can be oversees the communications with private individual found on pages 23 to 27, contains details of the Companys shareholders.
See page 51 for further details on the Boards principal risks and uncertainties, their impact on the Company engagement with shareholders.
An analysis of the shareholder register, by type of holder C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors and by size of holding, can be found on page 79.
The Board has established an Audit Committee comprising at least three independent Non-executive Directors.
The E. 2 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting Committees formal terms of reference can be found on the The Board encourages all shareholders to participate in the corporate governance section at the Companys website: Annual General Meeting AGM and to ask questions.
com en-gb about-us corporateAll Directors attend the AGM, including the Committee Chairs, governance .
and are available to answer any questions on the work of the Committees.
A full report from the Audit Committee is set out on pages 55 to 58.
The 2018 AGM is scheduled to be held on 25 July.
The Notice of AGM and related papers will, unless otherwise noted, be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the D. Remuneration meeting.
For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications electronically, notice is given of the availability D. 1 The level of components of remuneration of the documents in the Investors section of the Groups The Board has established a Remuneration Committee with website.
See page 80 for further information.
The report of the Remuneration Committee appears on pages 62 to 63.
The terms of reference can be found on the corporate governance section of the Companys website at https: www.
44 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Operation of the Board KEY ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD DURING THE YEAR The Board has seven face-to-face meetings planned throughout the year, which are specified in an annual calendar 1.
Group Strategy the implementation phase of meetings, and operates through a comprehensive set of governance activities, which are considered by the Board and The Board continued to focus on matters of strategic and its Committees during the annual business cycle.
In addition, operational importance during the year, with regular strategy when necessary, the Board conducts meetings via telephone updates and discussions.
In addition, the Board devotes one between scheduled meetings, and the members of the Board meeting a year to review the Groups strategy as a whole.
are regularly communicating to progress the Groups business At the March Board meeting, the Group Director, Strategy as required.
and Planning, presented the FY19 component of our five-year Integrated Strategic Business Plan.
The plan incorporated The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of feedback from the strategy meeting held earlier in the its business including the timely provision of information, and financial year.
the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that these are observed.
The following items of the Groups strategy were noted in particular by the Board during the year: The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors, without executives present, after each Board meeting.
The Focus on modernisation of the UK Defence Test Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent and Evaluation enterprise Director meets with the Directors at least once a year without The CEO has provided the Board with regular briefings the Chairman being present, to evaluate the Chairmans in connection with the modernisation of the UK Defence performance during the year, taking into account the views and Test Evaluation T&E enterprise, as this is a key of the Executive Directors.
element of the Companys T&E strategy.
The Board and the Executive Committee will continue to focus Board and Committee meetings are generally held in London on the T&E strategy in FY19 and spread over a two-day period, to allow sufficient time for Focus on international business the Board to deal with the various items of business.
Whenever Items in connection with the Companys international possible, the Board visits different business units and in March expansion were included on the agenda throughout 2018 the Board held a two-day meeting at the Companys main the year and will be one of the deep-dive items for the facilities in Farnborough, UK.
In addition, the Groups international strategy was discussed in detail at the annual Board strategy meeting Focus on innovation Innovation continues to be part of the Companys strategy, and included in the CEOs updates to the Board on strategy implementation.
It was also discussed at the annual Board strategy meeting Transformation programme The Board has had full oversight over the transformation programme during the year, discussing the conclusion of the programme and its replacement with a continuous improvement programme for FY19.
People Strategy and Culture The Group HR Director has provided the Board with updates on people strategy and people culture.
In FY19, the Board will continue to work with the CEO and Group HR Director to focus on a strategy to engage and retain talent that delivers exceptional operational performance and growth for both the business and its people.
Corporate Governance The Board receives regular updates from the Company Secretary on legislation and proposed consultations which may affect the Companys legal and regulatory obligations, including proposals to reform corporate governance.
It ensured that governance structures remained appropriate, or where necessary, updated, to reflect the business and global market in which QinetiQ operates.
Corporate governance | Compliance statement QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Matters reserved to the Board The Board has a clearly articulated set of reserved matters.
Following the strategic review two years ago, the Board has reviewed and updated the schedule of matters reserved and limitations of authority to ensure they remain appropriate.
The The induction that I received when matters reserved can be found in full at https: www.
joining QinetiQ enabled me to quickly gain a deep understanding Director development and training New Directors receive a comprehensive induction on joining the of the Company, its key businesses Board, which is tailored to their experience and background.
and facilities, the work of the Board During the year David Smith, who was appointed as CFO in March 2017, has continued his induction process, with, among and the challenges ahead of me.
others, visits to Pendine, Aberporth, Boscombe Down and Haslar sites in the UK.
David Smith, Group CFO The Company Secretary organises site visits and training to suit Directors individual requirements.
This year Non-executive Director visits included the Malvern site in England and the British Underwater Test & Evaluation Centre in Scotland.
The Company Secretary briefings to the Board on corporate governance matters, noted in particular the fundamental review of the FRCs Corporate Governance Code, the updated guidance on Board diversity and the new rules under the General Data Protection Regulation.
All Directors are expected to commit and take responsibility for their own development during their tenure.
During the year of reporting, individual Non-executive Directors attended various seminars and workshops covering matters such as cyber risks, diversity, remuneration trends and strategy development.
In addition, the Directors are required to complete the annual business ethics training, as noted on page 34.
The Board and its Committees Details of attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees: 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018 Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR Members Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Mark Elliott 7 7 3 3 5 5 4 4 Steve Wadey 7 7 3 3 4 4 David Smith 7 7 Lynn Brubaker 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 4 4 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 4 4 Michael Harper 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 4 4 Ian Mason 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 4 4 Paul Murray 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 4 4 Susan Searle 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 4 4 46 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board and Committee structure Board of Directors Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR Security Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee QinetiQ operates by way of six principal Board Committees and The Executive Committee the Executive Committee, with all Non-executive Directors being The interaction between the Board and the Executive members of all the Board Committees, except for the Security Committee enables the Board to receive information first-hand Committee and others where prohibited by the Code, statutory about the Company and its operations and to give guidance or Security Committee requirements.
Key issues discussed and on strategy and oversight of the business direct to senior decisions taken at Committee meetings are circulated to all management.
The Executive Committee comprises the CEO, members of the Board after each Committee meeting.
The CFO, the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel, the Committees operate within written terms of reference approved Managing Directors of the business groups and the functional by the Board, which can be viewed in full at https: www.
Executive Committee members and members of com en-gb about-us corporate-governance.
the senior management team present to the Board and its Committees on key matters.
The full list of the members can The Disclosure Committee was established in 2016 following be found at www.
the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulations MAR.
The Committee comprises all Board members, except for The Executive Committee meets on a two-weekly basis.
Its when called at short notice, when it comprises the Chairman, focus is on the achievement of the Groups strategic goals in the CEO, the CFO and any one of the Non-executive Directors respect of growth and operational excellence, with an ongoing who chair the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee or consideration of governance issues.
The Committee is Risk & CSR Committee.
responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups activities, with the exception of QinetiQ North America which Reports of the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee and is managed through a Proxy Board, and the oversight of the Risk & CSR Committee are set out in this report as noted in the risk management process and its implementation by the index on page 1.
The relevant Code disclosures in respect of the businesses and the functions.
Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 77.
Corporate governance | Compliance statement QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
