Corporate Governance REPORT OF THE RISK & CSR COMMITTEE Admiral Sir James Dear Shareholder, Burnell-Nugent I am pleased to report that, during the year, the Committee Risk & CSR continued to carry out its core functions, with the support of Committee Chairman the Executive Committee, in respect of non-financial risk management and oversight.
The annual calendar of activities, together with the in-depth review of red risks and deep-dives into key risk areas, has continued to provide a firm basis on which the Committee is able to oversee the operation of the non-financial risk management processes within the Group.
Regular updates, including corporate responsibility issues from management responsible for specific areas, continued to further the Committees understanding of risks and how they are mitigated.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent Risk & CSR Committee Chairman Main responsibilities The Committee has three primary functions: To oversee the sound operation of the Companys risk management systems To monitor non-financial risk exposures, including security, trade controls, ethics, corporate responsibility and health, safety and environment To monitor adherence to the generic MOD compliance system.
The Committee meets as necessary, although normally not less than four times a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2018, the Committee met on four occasions.
Activities during the year Details of key activities in respect of health, safety and environment and business ethics are set out in the Our People section on pages 32 to 33.
The key activities of the Committee during the year, which are described in further detail on page 61, were as follows: a A review of the Groups risk management activities b A review of the generic MOD compliance system c The outcome of the Committees effectiveness review.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the business operates within agreed risk appetite while taking account of emerging risks.
60 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 a A review of the Groups risk management activities: c Effectiveness review: During the year the Committee received regular reports from The evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee was taken the Group Director, Safety and Governance: the Group Director, alongside the Board effectiveness review and carried out by Corporate Responsibility: the Group Head of Enterprise Risk way of an externally provided questionnaire-based process.
Management: and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
The following actions had been noted from the 2017 effectiveness review: The reports from the Group Director, Safety and Governance and Group Head of Risk covered key areas of risk management Devoting more time to deep-dives and less to reporting activity, including health and safety and international trade Improved quality of papers controls.
These reports also included a high level summary of Continuing to simplify and further use the new risk changes to non-financial risks, an overview of assurance reporting system activity, anti-bribery and corruption.
The reports from the Group Further training in risk management.
Director, Corporate Responsibility covered areas such as business ethics and code of conduct, emerging reputational These items have been covered during the year under review risks, diversity and inclusion, stakeholder engagement, by the specific project with regard to risk reporting and the environment, trading policy and Modern Slavery Act reporting.
ongoing Committee activities, as noted in this report.
The reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit provided an update on internal audit activity since the Committees last The outcome of the 2018 review was considered at the meeting, details of progress with audit recommendations Committees May meeting.
The performance of the Committee and details of any overdue recommended actions from was rated highly overall, benefitting from good executive internal audits.
The following actions for the Committee were agreed for the upcoming year: Details of the principal risks and uncertainties can be found in the Strategic report on pages 22 to 26.
Red risks are made the Considering additional methods of reviewing risks subject of a report to the Committee or become the subject Carrying out more work on emerging risks of a deep-dive review as part of the Companys risk Improving internal audits contribution in management processes.
non-process areas Sustaining and developing recent improvements.
b Generic MOD compliance system: A key aspect of the Committees work is the oversight of the Report of the Security Committee MODs generic compliance system.
This is integral to the work There was no requirement for the Committee to meet during of QinetiQ in its relationship with the UK Government.
The generic compliance system is designed to give the MOD Membership and attendance during the year customer confidence that QinetiQ is able to provide impartial The Security Committee is chaired by Admiral Sir James advice during any competitive evaluation of a procurement Burnell-Nugent and the other Committee members during opportunity where the Group wishes to operate on both the the year were Michael Harper, Ian Mason, Paul Murray, buy and the supply sides.
The aim is to achieve a balance Susan Searle, David Smith and Steve Wadey.
between meeting the needs of the procurement customers in the MOD principally Defence Equipment & Support and the Main responsibilities need to allow QinetiQ the flexibility to commercialise research The Committee was established in June 2009 to enable UK into the supply chain and pursue its planned business activities, nationals on the Board to consider matters of a UK national without compromising the defence or security interests of security dimension that have an impact on QinetiQs UK the UK.
The Committees full terms of reference can be found in the Governance section of the QinetiQ website at The Board nominates two senior executives to act as www.
Compliance Implementation Director and Compliance Audit Director.
During FY18 those roles were held by the Group Director, Safety and Governance and the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel respectively.
In FY19 the Group Commercial Director will take over the role of Compliance Implementation Director.
Oversight of the operation of the compliance system is provided by the Committee.
During the year under review, the Committee received an annual report from the Group Director, Safety and Governance and the internal audit function on the compliance areas that it monitored.
A typical report includes a summary of the scope and an executive summary of the findings with an audit opinion, with agreed associated time-bound action plans.
The Committee addresses any issues that would arise if QinetiQ were to fail to comply with the requirements of the generic compliance system.
No breaches were noted during the year.
Examples of deep-dive reviews into key risks carried out by the Committee during the year are as follows: International Business Governance Aviation Risk Management Recruitment and Retention.
For each deep-dive, Committee members were able to challenge the details provided and receive further details or give guidance as necessary.
Corporate governance | Report of the Risk & CSR Committee QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61
