REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Paul Murray Dear Shareholder, Audit Committee Chairman I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee on the work carried out during the last financial year.
The Committee continues to operate on the basis of an open but challenging dialogue with management and with the internal and external auditors and the application of an appropriate level of scrutiny.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out in this report.
It details the activities, discussions and decisions which enabled the Audit Committee to fulfil its objectives effectively during the year of reporting.
Paul Murray Audit Committee Chairman The Audit Committee is chaired by Paul Murray, who continues to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers the members of the Committee to be independent, and in accordance with the Code, the Board concludes that the Committee as a whole possesses competence relevant to the Companys sector, having a range of financial and commercial experience in the industry and commercial environment in which QinetiQ operates.
The CEO, CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Internal Audit Manager and representatives of PwC attended all Committee meetings during the year.
Two meetings were also held with the Committee and PwC, without management being present.
Main responsibilities The Audit Committee monitors the Groups integrity in financial reporting and reviews the effectiveness of the financial risk management framework.
The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at least four times a year.
During the year of reporting, the Committee met on four occasions.
The Committee met PwC and the Group Internal Audit Manager on two separate occasions during the year, without Executive Directors present, to discuss the audit process and assure itself regarding resourcing, auditor independence and objectivity.
The Committee operates to assure integrity in financial reporting and controls, the effectiveness of its internal audit function, the relationship with the external auditors and that appropriate whistleblowing arrangements are in place.
Corporate governance | Report of the Audit Committee QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Corporate Governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Activities during the year The Committee has an annual calendar of activities, and in addition it identifies particular areas of which the Committee wishes to focus on.
The significant issues that the Committee considered during the year are set out in the table below: Areas of focus Action taken by the Committee Longer Term Viability Statement The Committee scrutinised and challenged the principle underpinning the Statement for FY18, and concluded that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they become due.
The Committee therefore continues to consider it appropriate that the Statement covers a three-year period.
The Statement can be found in full on page 27.
Financial reporting As a standing agenda item, the Committee focused on understanding the reasonableness of provisions and liabilities, both in terms of consistency of policy application for repeating items, and judgements around discrete events and projects.
Considering the nature of the business and global market in which QinetiQ operates, comprehensive discussions were held by the Committee throughout the year where the Committee reviewed whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted, and whether management had made the appropriate estimates and judgements.
In addition, support and assessment were sought from the external auditor.
To facilitate this process, the Committee received presentations from the CFO and the Group Financial Controller and also received a report from the external auditor covering the key risk areas addressed during the audit, and the auditors view of the key judgements made by management.
Specific issues addressed by the Committee for the periods ended 30 September 2017 and 31 March 2018 include the following: The basis for, and judgements made by management in determining, the liabilities recorded for litigation, onerous contracts, potential claims and other disputes The carrying values of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs, specifically goodwill associated with the US Global Products CGU which had been impaired in 2016.
The major assumptions impacting on the net present value of future expected cash flows were also discussed.
Certain discount rate assumptions and market growth forecasts are advised by external consultants Assumptions used to value the net pension asset of 316.2m as advised by the Companys external actuaries The basis for recognition of US tax losses and judgements in respect of the Groups tax reserves, including R&D expenditure credits The disclosures in the interim statement, the preliminary announcement and Annual Report and Accounts, in particular those relating to non-recurring items specifically, the 5.3m relating to the release of engine servicing obligations, risk, goodwill and tax The implications of the experienced delays and any potential incremental delays to the BEPIColombo Mission to Mercury programme.
Based upon the business assurance process and discussions with management and the external auditor, the Committee was satisfied that the accounting disclosures and assumptions were reasonable and appropriate for a business of the Groups size and complexity, that the external auditor had fulfilled its responsibilities in scrutinising the financial statements for any material misstatements and that the disclosures were satisfactory.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee was required to provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys financial position and future prospects and provide all information necessary to a shareholder to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Following the process established and reported on in previous years, and in forming its opinion, the Committee reflected on the information it had received and its discussions throughout the year.
The assessment was assisted by an internal verification of the factual content by management, a review at different levels of the Group to ensure consistency and overall balance, and a comprehensive review by the senior management team and the external auditors.
Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the FY18 Annual Report and Accounts were representative of the year and present a fair, balanced and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The external auditor confirmed their satisfaction with the standard achieved.
The Boards statement in this respect can be found on page 27.
IFRS 15 During the year the Committee received reports and discussed the implications of the new key accounting standard, IFRS 15, on revenue recognition.
A detailed assessment has been undertaken by management and the impact on the Groups most significant contracts has also been considered by both the retiring auditors KPMG and the incoming auditors PwC.
The Committees review of the work undertaken and the overall impact assessment concluded that the implementation of IFRS 15 does not have a material impact on the Group.
56 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Internal controls These items were covered during the year under review.
Details During the year under review, the Committee monitored of the risk review can be found in the Report of the Risk & CSR the effectiveness of the systems of internal control to gain Committee on page 61.
The processes for risk management assurance that an effective control framework was maintained.
and control of the US business were covered in reports from Reports on the effective operation of the control framework the internal audit function, and the Committee received updates were received from management and reviewed by the from the external auditor in respect of financial matters.
Committee along with key policies and processes.
The effectiveness of the Committee continued to be rated As in previous years, particular attention was given to the timely highly.
It was agreed that the Committee should focus on the and effective implementation of remedial actions, either following areas over the coming year: identified by the business directly, or by the internal audit function, with updates on improvement actions being scheduled Value gained from PwCs first year as auditors for follow up at a later meeting during the year.
The internal Gaining an improved understanding of the control auditor reported on four occasions to the Committee on the environment at QNA operation of internal control and risk management processes.
Focus on ensuring that the internal audit function continues to have the appropriate resources, processes The internal audit functions risk-based strategic and annual and systems.
plan was presented, and scrutinised twice during the year by the Committee, to provide assurance that resources were External audit adequate and directed towards key risk areas.
Policy on the regulation of non-audit work and safeguarding auditor independence The annual plan is structured to ensure that all significant financial and non-financial risks are reviewed within a rolling The Company views it as essential that the external auditor is three-year strategic plan.
The audits include the review of both independent of any conflict of interest and perceived to be financial systems, programmes and projects, as well as the so.
To safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the management of specific risks identified through the Groups following process is operated by the Company: risk management processes.
During the year under review, the internal audit function audited constituent parts of the The Company has a Code of Practice applicable to all Groups transformation programme, in line with a programme employees which sets out the principles for regulating the to support adherence to plans and achievement of outcomes.
award of non-audit work to the external auditor.
The Code of Other areas of focus during the year were anti-bribery and Practice clearly articulates the non-audit services which are corruption processes and IT risk and control.
prohibited, the non-audit services which can be purchased and the key approvals that are necessary prior to the provision of Internal audit activity in the year continued to indicate that, non-audit work.
overall, an effective control environment was in place, with an open culture of continuous improvement being Pursuant to the Code of Practice, any non-audit services demonstrated by regular management requests for conducted by the external auditor require the prior consent of internal audits to be undertaken.
the CFO or the Chairman of the Audit Committee: any services exceeding 50,000 in value require the prior consent of the The Committee also regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Audit Committee as a whole.
financial risk management framework, including reviewing key financial risks and assessing the effectiveness of The Committee ensures that any advisory and or consulting managements remedial action plans.
services provided by the external auditor do not conflict with its statutory audit responsibilities and are conducted through The process in respect of QinetiQ North America is adjusted to entirely separate working teams: such advisory and or take into account the Proxy arrangements referred to on page consulting services generally only cover regulatory reporting, 53.
The executive management function has regular contact tax, and mergers and acquisitions work.
with the Chair of the Proxy Board and with US executive management, and the Groups internal controls have been The Code of Practice enables the Committee to take corrective applied as far as possible within the requirements of the action if it believes that there is a risk of the external auditors Proxy regime.
independence being undermined through the award of such work.
The internal audit function continues to work closely with US management to gain assurance that an effective control It is also QinetiQs policy that no PwC employee may be environment is in place.
In addition, the Executive Directors appointed to a senior position within the QinetiQ Group without attended meetings of the US Board during the year.
the prior approval of the CFO.
The Committee confirms its view that it has received sufficient, Review of non-audit work during the year reliable and timely information from management in the last The Committee reviews the cost and nature of non-audit work financial year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
undertaken by the external auditor at three meetings as a standing item, with a fourth meeting considering the auditors Audit Committee effectiveness review fees as part of the year-end review.
The evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee was conducted alongside the Board effectiveness review, and The Committee had concluded, prior to engaging PwC for the carried out by way of an externally provided  of these services, that there had not been any conflict based process.
of interest that might compromise the independence of PwCs audit work.
Details of the external auditors remuneration can be The following actions had been noted from the 2017 found in note 5 on page 103. effectiveness review: Developing an effective and transparent relationship with the newly appointed CFO Ensuring a successful transition to the new Audit Partner, PwC.
Corporate governance | Report of the Audit Committee QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Corporate Governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED 2018 2017 % of % of m audit fee m audit fee Audit fees 0.6 0.5 Non-audit: Audit-related assurance services 0.1 12% 0.1 22% All other non-audit services 0.0 1% 0.0 2% Total non-audit fees 0.1 13% 0.1 24% Fees related to non-audit work services amounted to 75k, including 72k for audit related services 2017: 129k including 120k for audit related services.
Review of the effectiveness and the independence of the external auditor At its September meeting the Committee reviewed the results of an effectiveness survey of the previous years audit process, which allowed the learnings to be fed into the current years planning process.
At its May meeting, the Committee again reviewed the effectiveness and the independence of the external auditor during the year.
The members of the Committee have declared themselves satisfied with the performance of PwC as the Companys auditor in the last financial year.
Appointment of auditor Following a robust tender process in 2017, which was managed by the Audit Committee and a sub-committee appointed, comprising the Audit Committee Chairman, two Non-executive Directors, the CFO and the Group Financial Controller, it was concluded that PwC was the preferred firm to conduct the audit engagement.
The sub-committee recommended to the Board that PwC be selected as the Groups external auditor for the year ending 31 March 2018 and PwC were appointed as the Companys auditor at its Annual General Meeting on 19 July 2017.
The Committee and the Board will be recommending PwCs re-appointment at the 2018 AGM.
Statutory audit services compliance The Company confirms that, during the year under review, it has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order on statutory audit and services, which relates to the frequency and governance of external audit tenders and the setting of a policy on the provision of non-audit services.
58 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
