Governance Board Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to have this opportunity to set out how the Board AuditCommittee has undertaken its duties for the year ended 31December 2018.
Throughout the year the Committee has focused clearly on its key responsibilities of assisting the Board in monitoring the Groups control environment, providing robust governance over the Groups financial reporting and challenging the judgements made by management and the estimates and assumptions on which they are based, whilst ensuring appropriate disclosures.
A major role for the Committee in the final months of 2017 and early in 2018, related to the Managed Separation of our business from OldMutual plc and its Listing ontheLondon and Johannesburg StockExchanges.
George Reid Chair of the Board Audit Committee As part of the preparations for Listing, the Committee agreed the Basis of Preparation and the Accounting Policies that would be applied for Quilter as a standalone listed company, and reviewed the financial information including the Historical Financial Information, The table below shows the Committee membership and the Reporting Accountants Opinion, the Operating and Financial members attendance at meetings in 2018: Review and the Proforma Statement and Statement of Capitalisation Scheduled and Indebtedness included within the Prospectus and other Committee Ad hoc documents relating to the Listing of the business.
The Committees Membership of the Committee meetings meetings overriding objective in this work was to ensure that these important George Reid Chair 9 9 1 1 documents were compliant with the relevant reporting requirements, Rosie Harris 9 9 1 1 fair, balanced and understandable, recognising the complexity Ruth Markland appointed 25 06 2018 4 5 N A oftheinformation provided.
This thorough process ensured that Suresh Kana appointed 08 08 2018 3 3 N A theCommittee could confidently recommend these important Ingrid Johnson resigned 19 04 2018 1 3 0 1 disclosures for inclusion in the Quilter Prospectus.
Committee activity Post Listing, the Committee oversaw the issue of Quilters first InterimResults as a standalone listed company and the preparations Integrity of the Fi financial 38% for the production of Quilters first Annual Report and Accounts.
Statements Internal Controls 13% During the year the Committee also: Internal and Exter final 33% received regular reports from internal audit and external audit Auditors covering all aspects of their respective work: Managed Separati on 16% Listing received reports on compliance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Client Assets Sourcebook CASS rules in the Groups permissioned regulated subsidiaries: reviewed the Solvency and Financial Condition Reports relating tothe Old Mutual Wealth businesses for inclusion in the wider reporting of the Old Mutual Group: monitored the Groups whistleblowing procedures and results: and considered the possibility of tendering the external audit of Quilterplc.
There is further information on how the Committee has discharged its role in the coming pages.
Our report to you is structured in four parts: Governance: Report on activities for the year: External Audit: and Internal Audit.
George Reid Chair of the Board Audit Committee 54 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Governance Report on activities for the year Since the Listing of the Company in June 2018, the Committee has The Committee agreed at the start of 2018 its forward agenda comprised independent Non-executive Directors.
Set out above are ofbusiness for the year.
That rolling agenda comprises recurring tables showing the composition of the Committee and the members business, cyclical business and other business.
As recurring business attendance at meetings.
During the year, I was delighted to welcome the Committee reviews and discusses: Ruth Markland and Suresh Kana as members of the Committee in updates from the finance team on significant financial reporting June and August 2018 respectively.
matters and accounting policies: updates on significant accounting judgements and estimates I would draw your attention to the biographical information on each thatwill impact the financial statements: member set out on pages 40 to 41.
You will see that the Committee updates on the status of the internal controls over financial Chairman and other Committee members have recent and relevant reporting: financial experience and the Committee as a whole has competence findings from internal audit reports and how quickly audit findings relevant to the business sectors that Quilter operates within.
The Terms are being resolved by management: of Reference of the Board Audit Committee can be found on the Quilter regular updates and refreshes of the internal audit plan: website at quilter.
reports from the Chairs of the subsidiary audit committees: updates on the work of the external auditors including approval In some of the Committees areas of responsibility, including the ofKPMGs engagement letters, annual audit plans and oversight of the UK Platform Transformation Programme and the representation letters: and approval of the internal audit plan, the Committee has worked details of non-audit services requested of the external auditors collaboratively and effectively with other Board Committees, inaccordance with the non-audit services policy.
particularly the Board IT Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The Committee holds regular private sessions with the leadership Cyclical items reviewed by the Committee include: ofboth the internal and external auditors.
The Committee Chair reports on compliance with The Financial Conduct Authority alsomeets separately and regularly with the Chief Internal Auditor CASSrules across the Group: and the KPMG lead audit partner.
reports on the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and details ofhow any whistleblowing incidents have been resolved: and The following section shows, in summary, how the Committee has Solvency II and other prudential reporting.
spent its time for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Details of work conducted in 2018 Glyn Jones, Chairman of Quilter, has mentioned elsewhere that In addition to the work relating to the Managed Separation and wearein the process of conducting a Board effectiveness review.
Listingof Quilter plc described above, the Committee also focused TheBoard Audit Committee will be part of that review with specific onthe following areas of work.
feedback being sought from those who serve on the Committee, other Board members and other key contributors on how effectively Financial reporting the Committee has discharged its responsibilities.
Any issues raised Quilters accounts are prepared in accordance with International bythe review will of course be acted on, and I will report further Financial Reporting Standards.
Certain Alternative Performance onthis review in our 2019 Annual Report.
Measures APMs are used to add insight for our shareholders on theperformance of the business, aligned with how the business ismanaged.
The use of APMs has been an area of close attention forthe Committee, as discussed later in this section.
The Committee has reviewed the Accounting Policies and confirmedthat they are appropriate to be used for the 2018 Quilter financial statements.
Detailed discussions have been held at Board Audit Committee meetings on the adoption of IFRS 9 financial instruments, IFRS 15 revenue recognition and IFRS 16 leases aswell as a preliminary discussion of IFRS 17 insurance contracts.
Governance | Board Audit Committee report Quilter Annual Report 2018 55 Governance | Board Audit Committee report continued The Committee has also reviewed the basis of accounting, the The form of the viability statement and period covered by the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of preparation statement were considered by the Committee.
The Committee was of the Groups financial statements and the Groups viability satisfied with the content of the viability statement and supported statement.
In doing so, the Committee considered: the time period of the statement which aligns with the three-year the Groups three-year Business Plan which includes consideration internal financial planning cycle.
of the economic, regulatory, competitive and risk environment: the latest Group own risk and solvency statement, and internal The Committee reviewed and challenged the Interim Results for capital adequacy assessment process, which cover current 2018and the Annual Report and Accounts for 2018.
The Committees andfuture risk profile and solvency positions based on a series reviews were supported by analysis and discussion provided by ofcoreassumptions, stress tests and scenario analysis: and thefinance and actuarial teams, reports from the second line the work performed for the Day 1 balance sheet of the business onthesolvency position and the reports of the external auditors.
ahead of Listing and the Working Capital Report.
Havingconsidered these inputs and the Committees own independent judgements, the Committee recommended to theBoard the approval of each of these financial statements.
Accounting judgements and estimates The Board Audit Committee has received good support from the Quilter finance team which has enabled it to consider in advance of the end ofeach reporting period the approach that it would wish to take on the key areas of judgement and estimates that impact the financial results.
Key judgements and estimates deliberated by the Committee during 2018 included the treatment of: Areas of focus Issue role of the Committee Group accounting including the impact The Committee considered and challenged the complex impacts on the financial statements ofacquisitions and disposals of Managed Separation from OldMutual plc and the treatment of other acquisitions and disposals including the sale of the Single Strategy asset management business referred tobelow.
In addition, the Committee has reviewed the appropriateness of accounting for structured entities, including investment funds.
Sale of the Single Strategybusiness The Committee reviewed the accounting and disclosure of the sale of the Single Strategy asset management business, which was disclosed in our 2017 financial statements as Heldfor Sale, with the sale completing and being recognised in our financial statements in 2018.
The Committee has considered carefully the costs of the transaction, warranties provided and the costs associated with the build out of the Quilter Investors business following the sale, including the estimates of future costs.
Goodwill and intangibles Goodwill and intangibles were reviewed in detail to ensure that the amounts recorded inour balance sheet are well supported and based on thorough analysis and testing of the models and assumptions utilised.
We considered the sensitivity of the goodwill calculation to various different assumptions.
We also examined and agreed the impact on goodwill and intangibles of the sale of the single strategy asset management business.
Provisions and contingent liabilities, The assessment and approval of the provisions taken for voluntary customer redress including voluntary customer andother provisions were regularly considered by the Committee, as workprogressed, redress ensuring compliance with International Accounting Standard 37.
This work involved anumber of judgements which were carefully tested.
Deferred tax assets The Committee has reviewed the approach to the recognition of deferred tax assets, challenging managements assumptions and considering compliance with International Accounting Standard 12 on income taxes.
Valuation of level 3 financial investments The level 3 financial assets disclosed in our financial statements chiefly relate to policyholder funds in our life company subsidiaries where there is a matching investment contract liability.
These assets can be difficult to value and the Committee has taken an appropriately sceptical approach in reviewing such valuations, whilst encouraging managements efforts toenhance procedures to minimise the valuation risks.
Classification and valuation of long-term This judgemental and technical area has been reviewed by the Committee supported by business insurance policy holder liabilities reports from the Groups Chief Actuary.
The Committee challenged the Groups compliance with the relevant Technical Actuarial Standards.
The Committee has monitored the enhancement of the processes that support the assumptions and methodology that underpins the calculation of these liabilities.
The Committee also paid particular attention toareas of possible optimism and caution within the valuation, and concluded that the valuation isappropriate.
In addition, the key performance indicators to be included in the Operating and Financial Review were approved by the Committee and the Committee is content that they were appropriately disclosed.
The Committee also reviewed the level of disclosures around the risks and uncertainties of the UK leaving the EU and the potential implications to the business and customers and were satisfied that these were appropriate.
Many of the above key areas of judgement and estimates for the Committee are also commented on by KPMG in their Audit Report on pages 89 to 95.
The Committee has reviewed carefully the contents of KPMGs opinion and considers that KPMGs views on these areas are aligned with those of the Committee.
56 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Fair, balanced and understandable Alternative performancemeasures There has been a comprehensive review process to support the A key area of discussion during the year has been consideration Board in reaching its conclusion that the 2018 Annual Report is fair, oftheuse of APMs to ensure thatshareholders and other balanced and understandable and whether it provides the necessary stakeholders have a clear understanding of the underlying information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, performance of the business and can also see clearly the financial business model and strategy.
performance and financial position of the business on a statutory reporting basis.
The Committee has challenged management to The process which enabled the Committee to reach this conclusion provide clarity for readers of our financial statements on the core included: IFRS financial statements whilst enabling shareholders to understand the production of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, managed the items that are excluded when APMsare used and why those closely by the Chief Financial Officer, with overall governance exclusions are helpful in understanding the underlying performance andco-ordination provided by a cross-functional team of senior of the business.
See pages 204 and 205. management: cross-functional support to drafting the 2018 Annual Report CASS reporting andAccounts which included input from Finance, Risk, Investor In addition to reviewing the CASS Reports produced by the Relations, Corporate Secretariat, HR and wider business leaders: externalauditors, the Committee has reviewed the programmes a robust review process of inputs into the 2018 Annual Report ofwork under way in each of the regulated businesses to maintain andAccounts by all contributors, to ensure disclosures were appropriate CASS controls.
This has extended to ensuring that balanced, accurate and verified, with further comprehensive thebusiness CASS arrangements are well prepared for the reviews by senior management: impactofnew developments such as the sale of the single a review by the Company Secretary of all Board and Board strategyasset management business and our UK Platform Committee minutes to ensure all material matters considered Transformation Programme.
atBoard level meetings have been disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts: Whistleblowing a specific management paper detailing the 2018 year-end The Chair of the Board Audit Committee is the Whistleblowing assessment of fair, balanced and understandable: Champion for Quilter.
The Committee has reviewed the whistleblowing a formal review by the Board Audit Committee of the draft 2018 processes in place across the Group, assessing their effectiveness Annual Report and Accounts in advance of final sign-off: and and benchmarking the level of whistleblowing against global data a final review by the Quilter Board of Directors.
from the provider of our confidential whistleblowing reporting line.
Itis important that whistleblowing arrangements are not only Having carefully reviewed and considered all relevant information, effective in practice but are seen by all staff as being fair, rigorous theCommittee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2018 Annual andeffective in resolving concerns.
The Committee has challenged Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and has management to continue to enhance how our whistleblowing confirmed that to the Quilter Board.
This process was also undertaken arrangements are communicated to our staff.
in respect of the Groups 2018 Interim Results to ensure that, taken asawhole, based on the information supplied to it and challenged bythe Committee, they were fair, balanced and understandable, andthe Committee advised the Board to that effect.
Controls over financial reporting A key challenge for the business ahead of Listing was to report its ownand the financial results of its principal subsidiaries to a much earlier timetable than had previously been required.
This required investments to be made in our people and enhanced processes in certain business locations, particularly our International business.
The Committee has scrutinised the internal financial controls and governance framework that underpins our financial reporting and has determined areas where efficiency and overall effectiveness maybe further enhanced.
We have been overseeing progress on delivering those further enhancements and we are content with the clear progress made to date.
We expect further progress in 2019.
Aspart of the process to review and challenge the 2018 financial statements, the Committee again considered the processes and controls in place to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the financial statements.
I have reported to the Board on this area.
Governance | Board Audit Committee report Quilter Annual Report 2018 57 Governance | Board Audit Committee report continued KPMG partners and staff have attended all of the meetings of the External audit Committee in 2018 withdrawing only when their attendance would beinappropriate, such as when we were discussing conducting It is crucial that Quilter benefits from a robust, high quality external anaudit tender.
KPMG have contributed strongly to discussions on audit conducted by an independent and professional audit firm.
the Quilter financial statements, our financial reporting processes Tothis end, the Committee has received regular and detailed and key accounting and reporting judgements.
In the lead up to the reportsfrom our external auditors throughout the period, covering Listing of Quilter, KPMG clearly highlighted areas where management all aspects of their work.
We have also assessed managements needed to enhance our financial reporting capabilities, as we moved response to KPMGs internal control findings.
In advance of each from being a subsidiary to being a standalone listed company.
In Board Audit Committee meeting, I, as Chair of the Board Audit November 2018 a survey was conducted by our Company Secretary Committee, meet separately with KPMGs lead audit partner, of managements assessment of KPMG across a range of criteria JonMills, to ensure the discussions at our Committee meetings including: independence, objectivity, industry knowledge, efficiency areappropriately focused, challenging the conclusions reached by and, crucially, Audit quality.
That survey and the Committees own management as well as the audit work performed thereon.
Jon Mills assessment concluded that KPMG are delivering an effective audit.
has been the audit partner for Quilter plc and its predecessor group, Anumber of areas were highlighted for improvement through this Old Mutual Wealth, since the year ended 31 December 2016. review, including a need for enhanced planning and bringing to bear Therefore, 2018 is his third year in this role.
the full value of their industry knowledge.
That feedback has been provided to KPMG.
In addition to receiving KPMGs regular confirmations of their independence, we have received quarterly reports from management The Board Audit Committee has monitored closely the recent debate on the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG.
The level of on the future of the audit industry and will continue to do so.
Audit non-audit fees paid to KPMG in 2018 see chart below at 2.3 million quality is a theme that the Committee takes very seriously, and as isabove our policy guidance of 25% of the audit and audit-related youwould expect, we have discussed with KPMG the 2017 18 report feewhich totalled 4.5million.
The Committee is satisfied that this is of the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review Team and appropriate andjustified given that 71% of the non-audit fees related the actions that KPMG propose to address its findings.
We met to the workKPMG conducted in relation to the Listing of Quilter plc.
withKPMGs UK leadership and were reassured that KPMG take This is work that is almost always conducted by the firms statutory thefindings of the report very seriously and are well advanced in auditors giventhe knowledge and understanding they already addressing its findings.
To ensure clarity of expectations, I have also haveand thebenefits to shareholders of that knowledge and met separately with KPMGs Engagement Quality Control Review understanding.
KPMG has recently informed us that, as a matter Partner, who provides additional review and challenge to Jon Mills ofpolicy, they will berestricting the range of non-audit work that andhis audit team.
theywill perform for their audit clients.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG should 2018 2017 Auditors remuneration m m be re-appointed as auditors of Quilter plc at the AGM on 16 May 2019.
Audit fees 3.3 2.5 That recommendation has been endorsed by the Board.
Audit-related assurance services 1.2 0.5 We have recently announced that Quilter will be conducting an Non-audit fees 2.3 1.1 external audit tender.
KPMG has audited the financial statements Total Group auditors remuneration ofQuilter plc since 2008.
Quilter plc, as a newly standalone, listed continuing operations 6.8 4.1 company, has not previously put its audit to tender although Total Group auditors remuneration OldMutual plc last conducted a tender in 2014 when KPMG were discontinued operations 0.1 0.8 re-appointed but it is sensible now that we take this opportunity to Total Group auditors remuneration 6.9 4.9 assess the external audit support that will be needed as the business progresses to the next stage in its development.
Because of the length of KPMGs tenure, together with the fact that KPMG could onlycontinue as our auditor until 2023 at the latest, the Board Audit Committee has concluded that KPMG should not be part of the upcoming audit tender process.
The audit tender will be launched inMarch 2019 with a view to the selected firm auditing the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2020.
In the coming weeks, we will seek the views of shareholders regarding the audit tender process.
58 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Internal audit Our shareholders and customers can take comfort that the Quilter internal audit function is mature, appropriately focused and is functioning efficiently and effectively.
I am delighted that they have received external recognition of this by being voted the outstanding team in the financial services sector, at the Audit & Risk Awards of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
At the end of 2017 the Committee approved the internal audit plan that was delivered during 2018.
In May 2018 the Committee approved the Internal Audit Charter that was put in place for the Listing of the business in June 2018.
We approved the minor variations to the plan made during the year.
In December 2018, the Committee approved arisk-based internal audit plan for 2019 focused on the most critical areas for the Quilter business, the successful delivery of the UK Platform Transformation Programme and the strategy development processes for our business.
The Head of Internal Audit has confirmed that he has the necessary resources to deliver the 2019 internal auditplan, including having access to third party specialist support when required.
PwC conducted an External Quality Assessment of the Internal Audit function in 2017.
The assessment concluded that internal audit was top quartile assessed against its peers and identified some areas forthe function to focus on.
An updated External Quality Assessment was conducted in February 2018 which confirmed that the function conforms to IIA Standards.
The Head of Internal Audit attends all meetings of the Committee and has reported in detail on the work conducted by Internal Audit including key statistical analysis on the results of their work, the pace at which management is addressing any issues raised and the extent to which management has already identified the issues being raised by internal audit.
This is an important indicator of the maturity of our control framework, and wetrack this measure closely.
The Committee has regular meetings with the Chief Internal Auditor without management present, inaccordance with best practice.
The future The Board Audit Committee has covered a significant amount of work in 2018.
Many of the Committees areas of focus will continue into 2019, as the business develops and the Group delivers on its plans forthe future.
Governance | Board Audit Committee report Quilter Annual Report 2018 59
