Governance Board Risk Committee report Dear Shareholder, 2018 has been a transformative year for Quilter and I am pleased toshare with you my thoughts on how the Board Risk Committee hascontributed to the Companys success in 2018 and give you anindication of the challenges we face as we move forward.
The Company has gone through a period of significant change, including the Managed Separation from Old Mutual plc, the Listing of our shares in London and Johannesburg on 25 June 2018 and the disposal of our Single Strategy asset management business.
Whilstwe were on this journey we remained vigilant to the external environment, where we continue to see a high degree of regulatory change coupled with political and economic risk given the backdrop of Brexit and tougher trading conditions in the UK and beyond.
Rosie Harris Central to our role is how we hold management to account in Chair of the Board Risk Committee maintaining our ambition of putting the customer at the heart ofwhatwe do in delivering our strategic priorities.
The Committee has played a core role in challenging management to deliver the programme of voluntary customer remediation following the FCAs The table below shows the Committee members and their work on the fair treatment of long-standing customers in the life attendance at Committee meetings during 2018: insurance sector and will continue to monitor progress.
Scheduled Committee Ad hoc The Committees primary purpose is to: Membership of the Committee meetings meeting consider and recommend to the Board Quilters risk appetite: Rosie Harris 8 8 1 1 review Quilters risk profile: and Moira Kilcoyne 8 8 1 1 commission, receive and consider reports on key financial, George Reid 8 8 1 1 operational and other risk issues.
Paul Matthews appointed 08 08 2018 2 2 N A You can read the full Committee Terms of Reference at Committee activity quilter.
ORSA ICAAP 20% The Committee also has joint responsibility with the Board Audit Strategic Risk Ap petite 7% Committee for the oversight of the effectiveness of the internal CRO Report 18% control framework across Quilter and operational risks in respect Emerging Risks 11% ofcapital and reputation.
Further detail on the work performed in Regulatory Change 30% Update each of these areas is set outbelow.
Managed Separation 14% Listing I was fortunate to be supported during the year by George Reid andMoira Kilcoyne, who bring significant experience and diverse expertise enabling the Committee to identify the risks and challenge management.
In August 2018, the Committee composition was further strengthened by the appointment of Paul Matthews whobrings complementary business experience.
The Directors biographies are on pages 40 and 41.
You can see how the Committee iscomposed and members attendance opposite.
The performance of the Committee is being assessed as part of the Board evaluation process the Chairman describes on page 45 and Iwill report on the outcome ofthat review in the next Annual Report.
Rosie Harris Chair of the Board Risk Committee 60 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Operating in a rapidly changing external environment Report on key issues Over the year we have also seen an improvement in the horizon scanning performed to help identify emerging risks and managing Preparation for Listing future change, which may impact the Companys risk profile and The Committee spent a significant amount of time in the first half impact on our risk appetite.
As part of this activity, the Committee ofthe year ensuring that the Company would be ready for Managed held a deep dive onthe approach to the management of third party Separation and Listing.
Aspart of that work, alongside the Board Audit suppliers and we continue to closely monitor progress in this area.
In Committee, we reviewed and challenged the Companys Day1 balance addition, the Committee has asked management toassess emerging sheet to ensure we had sufficient capital as a standalone legal entity.
risks arising as a result of the ongoing Brexit negotiations, and the We actively engaged with the risk function and management to ensure possibility of a hard Brexit, and this remains a key area of focus in 2019. we were comfortable with preparations.
We approved the stress scenarios which may impact the Company, to provide comfort that the The Committee also asked for updates on the transitional services Day 1 balance sheet was prudent and our Company would be resilient.
arrangements following the sale of our single strategy asset management business to TA Associates and the build out of our In addition to ensuring the Companys capital position was appropriate, Quilter Investors business.
We made recommendations and were an important task for the Committee in preparation for Listing was given comfort around the mitigants thathad been put in place to reviewing, challenging and recommending to the Board Quilters manage the risks of separation resulting from the disposal of this Strategic Risk Appetite Principles and debating and challenging the business.
More broadly, the Committee has heard from management principal risk disclosures in the Prospectus.
You can find out more on their view of top risks, shared our advice with management and about the Committees role in preparing for Listing on page 47 and tested their assessments.
the assessment of our principal risks and uncertainties on pages 32 to 37.
As Chair of the Board Risk Committee, I have met with our regulators as a matter of routine and over the year the Committee has received Establishing and embedding a control framework regular updates on the delivery of our response to regulatory change, In line with the three lines of defence model for risk management, with the implementation of Markets in Financial Instruments wereceived a report from the CEO each quarter on his assessment Directive, General Data Protection Regulation and Senior Managers ofkey risks for our business and what actions are being taken to Certification Regime for our business.
The scale and impact of mitigate these.
We also received a quarterly report from the Chief Risk thesechanges, along with the uncertainty due to the ongoing Brexit Officer on his opinion of how the identified risks were being managed.
discussions, arerisks we are very focused on managing.
During the year we have alsoreviewed customer metrics ahead of submission A substantial portion of our time has been spent reviewing reports tothe Board and heard from our Customers Solutions team on their inrelation to the Groups own risk and solvency assessment, which is work to putour customers at the heart of our business.
required by the Prudential Regulation Authority, and internal capital adequacy assessment process, which is required by the Financial Looking ahead Conduct Authority, for recommendation to the Board.
We have The Committee has approved a calendar of business, and during welcomed and benefited from the challenge of our major subsidiary 2019 we will carry out a series of focused deep dives on particular boards and their Board Governance, Audit and Risk Committees riskareas.
These will include updates from our businesses and which reviewed these reports alongside us.
Wehave further reviewed otherareas of focus, including customer experience, and will include the risk and capital profiles across the Group entities to ensure that reviews by the first line business risk owners as well as the risk team.
This will enable us to examine the risk profile in more depth.
We have worked collaboratively with the Board Audit Committee to We will also continue to examine the Strategic Risk Appetite Principles ensure that the internal control framework was appropriate for the and review top and emerging risks.
We will continue to challenge and organisation and we have reviewed together the risk and regulatory analyse the risks from the macroeconomic outlook and conditions in teams annual plans and the Group Compliance Monitoring financial markets, together with geopolitical, legislative and regulatory programme.
The Committees also met jointly to oversee the change risks that may impact the Groups businesses, and risks implementation of the new Quilter policy suite and revisions to the associated with the implementation of the Groups strategy.
Management have been challenged to set and manage against appropriate operational risk appetites and the Committee believe more work is needed to further embed operational risk management within the business.
Where operational risk issues have occurred we have challenged management to enhance controls and apply the lessons Quilter wide.
As a matter of routine, we have heard from the risk and internal audit functions on how they have challenged managements approach.
Governance | Board Risk Committee report Quilter Annual Report 2018 61
