Governance Board Corporate Governance andNominations Committee report Dear Shareholder, The Quilter Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee has three key responsibilities: A nominations role, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, which focuses on the processes for establishing and maintaining a Board that is fit for purpose for a public company andthe promotion of the long-term sustainable success of the Company in the interests of all its stakeholders: A governance role, to establish and maintain a robust corporate governance framework, including standards and practices, bothforthe Company and its main subsidiaries: and A responsible business role, overseeing the development and Glyn Jones Chairman delivery of the Quilter responsible business agenda.
I received strong support in discharging these roles during the year from Cathy Turner and the Committee was further strengthened by The table below shows the members of the Committee and the appointment of Ruth Markland, our Senior Independent Director their attendance at the Committees meetings during 2018: who brings deep experience of UK corporate governance, andSuresh Scheduled Kana who brings a wealth of knowledge of corporate governance in Committee Ad hoc the South African market.
Membership of the Committee meetings meetings Glyn Jones 3 3 1 1 The Committee discharged the functions described above, as follows.
Suresh Kana appointed 08 08 18 1 1 N A Ruth Markland appointed 25 06 18 2 2 1 1 Cathy Turner 3 3 1 1 Nominations Bruce Hemphill resigned 19 04 18 1 1 1 1 identifying and monitoring the skills, experience and knowledge Committee activity required for appointment to the Quilter Board.
The Committee oversaw the profiles used to identify and assess the candidates for Managed Separation 42% and Listing each Board appointment and at the end of the year the Committee Board Eectiveness 14% analysed the Boards skills mix against our ongoing requirements Succession Planning 24% todetermine whether our Board is sufficiently strong in the relevant Legal and Regulatory 11% areas or whether additional skills are needed: Requirements overseeing the process followed for each appointment.
This Responsible Business 9% included assessing the rigour of the search process, the use of external search firms, the development of a strong and diverse pool of candidates and assessment of the identified candidates against the search profile and consideration of their independence and anypotential conflicts of interest.
We used Egon Zehnder in the UK and Spencer Stuart in South Africa as our external search agents.
Neither Quilter nor any of its Directors have any relationship with Spencer Stuart in South Africa.
Egon Zehnder have previously provided recruitment and executive assessment support and in2017 conducted a limited scope Board effectiveness review: overseeing the Director induction process to ensure that new Directors are able to rapidly make a strong contribution to the workof the Board.
A comprehensive induction plan has been agreed that all Directors complete as a minimum but additional activities areorganised according to the needs and interests ofeachDirector: evaluating potential Executive Director succession candidates and being closely involved in the Chief Financial Officer succession planning process that resulted in a recommendation to the Board ofthe appointment of Mark Satchel as Chief Financial Officer with effect from 13 March 2019.
TheCommittee has also overseen 52 Quilter Annual Report 2018 the process utilised for the recruitment of other new members Shareholder engagement ofthe Executive Committee: and The Chairman has met regularly with shareholders on a range of reviewing the succession arrangements for Non-executive Directors.
topics, including briefing them on Quilters approach to corporate This has been addressed in the first quarter of 2019 whenthe governance and hearing their views.
This has included discussions on Committee agreed the emergency succession plans forthe Chair how shareholders would wish to engage with the Chairs of the Quilter role and the Chairs of each Board Committee should the need arise.
Board Committees as recommended by the 2018 Corporate Governance Code.
Governance More information on our engagement with shareholders can befound on page 51. adopting a Board Charter that sets out the roles and responsibilities of all those on the Board and the exemplar behaviours expected.
Subsidiary governance You can find a copy of our Board Charter on the Quilter website at Quilter has implemented a subsidiary corporate governance quilter.
com corporategovernance: framework that sets minimum governance standards for all developing and approving the Quilter Group Governance Manual Quiltersubsidiaries.
In addition to increasing the independent that sets out the Quilter corporate governance framework, representation on major subsidiary boards, going beyond what asappropriate for a standalone listed company.
Afuller isrequired either by law or by regulation, the framework also description ofthe Group Governance Manual can be found requiresstrong linkages between the Quilter Board and its atquilter.
OneNon-executive Director from the Quilter developing and approving a Subsidiary Governance Manual that Board sits on each ofthe major subsidiary boards to encourage sets out the minimum standards required of the Quilter subsidiary communication between the Group and subsidiaries.
This additional boards and overseeing the recruitment of Independent governance provides comfort that all of our businesses are governed Non-executive Directors to those boards.
Thoseappointments to aconsistently high standard and supplements the work of the were effected using selection processes that were aligned to QuilterBoard.
thoseused for similar appointments to the Quilter Board: assessing the Quilter corporate governance framework toconfirm that Quilter has been compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Diversity Code from its Listing on 25 June 2018: We believe that diversity brings benefits for our customers, considering any potential conflicts of interest that have arisen ourbusiness and our people.
The Quilter Board has set a target during the year and agreeing the process by which those potential of having a minimum gender diversity target of 33% which is conflicts have been managed and mitigated: inline with the Hampton-Alexander Review recommendations.
agreeing the process and scope of a Board and Committee Iam pleased that thecurrent Quilter Board meets and exceeds effectiveness review and selecting Professor Rob Goffee tofacilitate that target, with a gender split of 36% female and 64% male, the review which is currently being conducted: and asat 31 December 2018, and in particular that four of our reviewing and approving the action plan to ensure that Quilter will fiveBoard Committees are chaired by women and our Senior comply with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code that applies Independent Director role is also held by a woman.
We have to all premium listed companies for accounting periods beginning more to do to increase the number ofwomen in senior on or after 1 January 2019.
This work included ensuring that Quilter leadership roles below Board level.
More broadly, we believe would be ready to comply with the new reporting requirements that all colleagues should have the opportunity to reach their relating to Section 172 Companies Act 2006 on Directors duties.
full potential regardless of their age, gender, ethnicity, disability, religion, sexual orientation, educational, social or cultural background.
We have published our Inclusion and Diversity Responsible business Statement on our website at quilter.
In recruitment, Quilter has adopted a diverse short list policy which means endorsing Quilters approach to responsible business and thatwe will strive to ensure that all short lists have different approving the responsible business strategy that is primarily genders or ethnicities represented.
We are also targeting new delivered by the Shared Prosperity Plan: and recruitment channels which will attract diverse talent.
Please reviewing and approving the disclosures on responsible business see further details on pages 13 and 14. inthis Annual Report.
Glyn Jones Chairman Governance | Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee report Quilter Annual Report 2018 53
