Governance Our approach to governance standards of corporate governance at Quilteris key to us meeting UK Corporate Governance Code theCode these wider responsibilities.
We lead by example to ensure that good Quilter plcs Ordinary Shares were admitted to trading on the standards of behaviour permeate throughout all levels of Quilter.
Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 25 June 2018, from which date Quilter has been required to apply the Quilters corporate governance framework principles of the Code as published in 2016 and comply, or Although our corporate governance framework is relatively new, we explain any non-compliance, with its provisions.
The Financial believe that it is effective in embedding the right culture, values and Reporting Council published a revised Code in July 2018 standards throughout the Group and we continue to work to embed whichhas applied to Quilter since 1 January 2019.
Details of it further for that purpose.
ourcorporate governance framework are available on our website at quilter.
For the period The Board is responsible for ensuring that management maintains 25 June 2018 to 31December 2018, and at the date of this asystem of internal control, which provides assurance ofeffective report, we complied with all relevant provisions of the 2016 and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance Code.
We will report on how we have applied the 2018 Code with laws and regulations.
In carrying out this responsibility, we have innext years Annual Report.
regard to what is appropriate for Quilters customers, business and reputation, the materiality of the financial and other risks inherent Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules inthe business and the relative costs and benefits ofimplementing DTRs specific controls.
By virtue of the information included in this Governance sectionof the Annual Report and our Directors Report on The Board is also the decision making body for all matters ofsuch pages 198 to 201 we comply with the corporate governance importance as to be of significance to Quilter as a whole because of requirements of the FCAs DTRs.
Certain additional information their strategic, financial or reputational implications orconsequences.
that is required to be disclosed pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6 can be A summary of the matters that are reserved for theBoards decision, found on pages 199 to 200. which includes Board appointments, Quilters strategy, financial statements, capital expenditure and any major acquisitions, mergers Johannesburg Stock Exchange theJSE or disposals, can be found at quilter.
Quilter has a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and is permitted by the JSE Listings Requirements Board governance framework tofollow the corporate governance practices of its primary The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities, under Listing market.
Quilter is, however, mindful of the provisions theauthority contained in our Articles of Association, to five ofthe King IV Governance principles and the expectations BoardCommittees which comprise the Board Audit Committee, ofour South African shareholders.
Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, BoardITCommittee, Board Remuneration Committee and BoardRiskCommittee.
Each Committee has specific responsibilities delegated toit by the Board recorded in their Terms of Reference A.
Leadership which have been approved by the Board and can be found at The role of the Board quilter.
Further information on the The Board of Directors is responsible to shareholders for creating and roleof each Committee, their composition and their activities delivering sustainable shareholder value through the management duringthe year canbe found in this report.
We determine the objectives and policies of Quilter with the aim of delivering long-term value, providing overall From time to time the Board establishes additional ad hoc Board strategic direction within a framework of rewards, incentives and Committees to consider specific matters.
An example of this can be controls.
We seek to ensure that management strikes an appropriate found on page 47 where we describe the work of the Day 1 Balance balance between promoting long-term growth and delivering on Sheet Committee.
The Boards role in fostering the highest Quilter Board and Board Committees Quilter plc Board Responsible for promoting the long-term sustainable success of the Company, generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society Board Audit Board Corporate Board IT Committee Board Remuneration Board Risk Oversees Quilters IT Committee Governance and Committee Committee estate and the Examines and challenges Sets overarching Oversees Quilters Nominations identification and Quilters financial principles for risk profile and Committee management of any statements and oversees remuneration across recommends our risk Oversees Board and significant IT risks and the management of Quilter and approves appetite to the Board executive succession major IT change projects internal controls and the individual remuneration planning.
Has oversight of work of our internal and for senior executives corporate governance and external auditors responsible business activities 48 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Roles on the Board Board skills It is a principle of UK company law that Executive and Non-executive Directors all have the same duties and are subject to the same Capital management constraints.
However, in line with the requirements of the Code, thereis a clear division of responsibilities at the head of Quilter Financial reporting between the running of the Board and executive responsibility Risk management formanaging Quilters business.
and internal controls Remuneration Our Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and managing the business of the Board through setting its agenda Corporate Finance andtaking full account of the issues and concerns of Board members.
Our Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the Strategy day-to-day running of our business and the leadership of his GroupExecutive Committee.
Further information on the Group IT Digital Executive Committee can be found onpages 42 and 43.
Wealth distribution In early 2018 we undertook an exercise by which we agreed and Investment management documented the accountabilities, expectations and competencies required of each role on the Board.
This includes the responsibilities Governance of the Directors as a whole, and role profiles of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairs, Non-executive Non-executive Director Directors and Executive Directors.
Performance will beassessed in Chair or Committee Chair our annual Board effectiveness review against these expectations.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee will Senior experience review the Board Charter annually to ensure it remains relevant and in a major FTSE up to date.
The Board Charter is published onour website at 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 quilter.
com corporategovernance to ensure complete transparency of the standards we set for ourselves.
Effectiveness The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Board composition isresponsible for overseeing the composition of the Board and The Board is made up of a majority of independent Non-executive itsCommittees and ensuring that it is an appropriate size and that Directors and currently comprises the Chairman, who was there is an appropriate balance of diversity in skills, experience, independent onappointment, two Executive Directors and eight independence and knowledge.
Biographies containing details of independent Non-executive Directors.
The independence of each Directors relevant skills and experience, Committee membership Non-executive Director is assessed on an annual basis against the andother principal appointments are set out on pages 40 and 41. criteria set out inthe Code.
Through our Board effectiveness review, performance against the behaviours set out in the Board Charter will Geographical experience also beassessed.
Global With the exception of our Chief Executive Officer, the Board has been entirely refreshed over the past two years in order to ensure the United States of America presence of the knowledge, skills and experience required to, firstly, United Kingdom see Quilter through Managed Separation and Listing, and now to ensure that we make a success of being a standalone listed company, South Africa delivering the strategy and growth targets that we have debated and agreed as a Board.
0 2 4 6 Governance | Our approach to governance Quilter Annual Report 2018 49 Governance | Our approach to governance continued The Board is currently undertaking an independently facilitated Conflicts of interest evaluation covering the 15-month period from 1 January 2018.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Thisisdescribed in more detail on page 45.
Weintend to undertake Articles of Association, the Board may authorise conflicts of interest.
an annual assessment of the Boards performance and that of its Directors are required to declare any potential oractual conflicts Committees and individual Directors.
ofinterest that could interfere with their ability toact in the best interests of Quilter.
The Company Secretary maintains a conflicts Service contracts for the Executive Directors and appointment register whichis reviewed by the Board and the Board Corporate lettersfor the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are available Governance and Nominations Committee.
forinspection at our registered office.
In accordance with the new recommendation of the 2018 UK Board induction Corporate Governance Code, the Board Corporate Governance All Directors receive a full, tailored induction upon joining the Board, andNominations Committee is required to pre-approve any new which is designed to enable them to quickly understand Quilter externalappointments that a Director wishes to adopt.
Accordingly andeach of our component businesses, including our opportunities, the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee challenges and risks.
Inductions are usually completed within the hasagreed formal principles governing the approval of new firstfew months of joining the Board, after which new Directors are externalappointments, taking account of legal, regulatory inaposition to contribute to key strategic and oversight discussions.
Ruth Markland, Paul Matthews and Suresh Kana all received C. Accountability inductions upon joining the Board in 2018.
These included meetings Risk management and internal control withmembers of the Quilter Executive Committee and the The Directors are responsible for ensuring that management CompanySecretary.
maintains an effective system of risk management and internal control and for assessing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed Board training and development to identify, evaluate and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk We recognise that we all have development needs and that we offailure to achieve business objectives and can only provide operate in a fast-moving business whereby the market, risk, legal reasonable and not absolute assurance against material andregulatory environments evolve on a continuous basis.
are therefore regularly provided with opportunities to undertake training or development.
As part of Directors annual performance Quilter is committed to operating within a strong system of internal reviews the Chairman discusses any particular development needs control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without that can bemet either through formal training or meeting with exposing itself to unacceptable potential losses or reputational aparticular senior executive.
The Quilter Group Governance Manual sets out the Groups approach to internal governance and establishes the mechanisms The Chairman and Company Secretary have organised formal and processes by which management implements the strategy trainingevents during the year, covering both Board and Board setbythe Board todirect the organisation, through setting the Committee training requirements, to ensure that our insight into toneand expectations from the top, delegating its authority and Quilters businesses andawareness of the external environment assessing compliance.
inwhich we operate continues after our formal induction schedules have been completed.
Quilters principles of internal control are to maintain: clearly defined delegated authorities: During 2018, Directors attended briefings on thefollowing subjects: clearly defined lines of responsibility: Financial risk: robust recording and reporting of transactions to support The UK Platform Transformation Programme: thefinancial statements: Advances in technology: financial reporting controls procedures and systems which Cyber security: areregularly reviewed: Internal Capital Allocation Assessment Process: and protection of assets: and Listing responsibilities.
financial crime prevention and detection.
These briefings were supplemented by written materials.
The Enterprise Risk Management Framework aims to align strategy, capital, processes, people, technology and knowledge in order Information provided to the Board toevaluate and manage business opportunities and threats ina The Chairman is responsible, as set out in the Board Charter, structured, disciplined manner.
The principal risks are set out on forensuring that members of the Board receive accurate, timely pages 33 to 36. andhigh quality supporting information.
This covers the Companys performance to enable us to take sound decisions, monitor effectively and provide advice to promote the success of the Company.
Working in collaboration with the Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good governance and consults Directors to ensure that good information flows exist and that the Board receives the information it requires to be effective.
50 Quilter Annual Report 2018 The Board Audit Committee regularly reviews the system of internal D. Remuneration control on behalf of the Board.
The Board Risk Committee oversees The Board has delegated responsibility for the consideration and the risk management framework.
In addition, the Board Audit approval of the remuneration arrangements for the Chairman, Committee receives regular reports from management, Internal Executive Directors and other senior executives to the Board Auditand the Finance, Compliance and Legal functions covering, Remuneration Committee.
Fees paid to the Non-executive Directors inparticular, financial controls, compliance and other operational are considered annually by the Board as a whole, with Non-executive controls.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 and to date, Directors not participating.
Information on the activities of the Board the Group has operated a system ofinternal control that provides Remuneration Committee in 2018 can be found in the Remuneration reasonable assurance of effective operations covering all controls, Report on pages 64 to 85, which forms part of the corporate including financial and operational controls and compliance with laws governance report.
Processes are inplace for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks facing the Group in accordance with the E. Relations with shareholders Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial The Board is committed to ensuring effective engagement with, and and Business Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council.
encourages participation from, both our shareholders and our wider stakeholders.
We have in place a comprehensive Investor Relations Internal control over financialreporting engagement programme with our investors.
More information on Management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining how we do this and our activities in 2018 is set out below.
Details adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control ofour private shareholder relations engagement are outlined below over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable and our approach to wider stakeholder engagement can be found assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the inthe Responsible business section.
preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards In the lead up to, and in the period after Listing, our Executive IFRS as adopted by the European Union and issued bythe Directors and senior management conducted nearly 300meetings International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Internal control with 200 institutional shareholders in London, Johannesburg, Cape over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain Town, Paris, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Zurich, Geneva, and to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately New York.
This was in addition to the two Showcase events prior to and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions ofassets: provide Listing held to present the Quilter investment case to prospective reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary investors.
Meetings focused on Quilters growth profile and the to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance expansion of our advice and investment management businesses, withIFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made only progress with the UK Platform Transformation Programme, revenue inaccordance with authorisations of management and the respective margin trends, management ofour cost base, operating leverage, Directors: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention uses of cash and capital, the broader industrys growth outlook, ortimely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of andthe impact of regulation andpolitics.
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
The Board regularly receives feedback on shareholder sentiment Assurance that these controls are adequate and operating effectively andsell-side analysts views of the Group and the wider industry.
is obtained through monthly control self assessments and regular InJanuary 2019, the Chairman met with our largest shareholders independent assurance activity undertaken by first line management during a roadshow in Johannesburg and Cape Town.
The Chairman and Internal Audit respectively.
Conclusions are reported to the Board welcomed the opportunity to listen to those shareholders in Quilter Audit Committee which examines the conclusions and provides and hear their views on corporate governance and related matters.
Finally, the Board scrutinises and approves resultsannouncements and the Annual Report, and ensures that The Investor Relations team and management have frequent appropriate disclosures have been made.
This governance process contactwith the nine equity research analysts who follow Quilter, ensures that both management and the Board are given sufficient andregularly conduct presentations with the sales desks at opportunity to debate and challenge the Groups financial statements theirinstitutions.
and other significant disclosures before they are made public.
Management has assessed the internal controls over financial reporting as of 31 December 2018 and concluded that, based on itsassessment, theinternal controls over financial reporting were effective as of31December 2018.
The Board Audit Committee has reviewed these assessments as part of its review of the internal controls over financial reporting.
The Chair of the Board Audit Committee reports on the review of controls over financial reporting on page57.
Governance | Our approach to governance Quilter Annual Report 2018 51
