Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans Governance introduction Ian BURKE Chairman completed over six years onthe board.
His successor as Dear shareholder responsible gambling committee chair will be Susan Hooper.
I am pleased to present this years directors and corporate I would like to take this opportunity to again thank Henry, governance report Report.
As a board, we recognise the Clive, Owen and Lord Kilmorey for their respective valuable importance of a strong governance framework to support contributions to the Company, and thank all my other Ranks strategic objectives and promote the culture that we colleagues for their commitment to the business during the year.
wish to instil throughout the Group.
The board believes thathigh standards of corporate governance contribute to Remuneration Policy Ranks performance and continued success.
These standards During the year under review, the remuneration committee are central to the effective management of the business and undertook a comprehensive review of Ranks remuneration tomaintaining the confidence of investors.
At a general meeting of the Company on This Report describes how the board functions.
It is supported 25April 2018, shareholders approved a new directors by five committees audit, finance, nominations, remuneration remuneration policy Policy and also minor changes to and responsible gambling.
The work undertaken by the therules of The Rank Group Plc 2010 Long-Term Incentive committees during the year under review is set out in this Plan.
The Committee believes that the Policy remains largely Report, with some of the principal matters considered set out fit for purpose and continues to be aligned to our strategy.
The board itself received unconscious bias training and Further details can be found in the Directors Remuneration members of the board were delighted to attend the inaugural Report on page 87.
Women at Rank networking breakfast.
Focus on regulatory developments Board composition Over the past 12 months there has been a notable increase in Succession planning has been an important topic for the the focus of regulators and consumers on issues relating to board and its nominations committee during the year thegambling industry.
Conducting business responsibly is pleasesee page 70.
There have been a number of changesto fundamental to the future success of Rank.
To this end, the boards composition.
Owen ODonnell steppeddown on during the year the board has rightly devoted significant time 19 October 2017, having completed nine years on the board.
to considering how the Company can raise standards in its His successor as audit committee chair is Alex Thursby, who own operations and across the industry.
Rank has reviewed, was appointed to theboard on 1 August 2017, and also serves and continues to review, its own internal processes, reflecting on our remuneration and nominations committees.
Henry on where its policies and technology can be improved and Birch stepped down as chief executive on 7 May 2018, being ensuring that such improvements are made.
In doing so, the succeeded by John OReilly.
On the same date, Alan Company has engaged with regulators as appropriate and Morgan, managing director, retail was appointed to the examined the learnings from, and the measures adopted by, boardas an executive director.
Ranks finance director, other operators and other sectors of the gambling industry.
CliveJennings, will leave the business on 17 August 2018 We continue to focus on the delivery of the cultural change topursueother opportunities and the Groups head of across Rank that is required to ensure a safe and fair reporting, JamesPizey, will step up as interim chief experience for our customers.
financialofficer untilClives successor has been appointed.
Lord Kilmorey willbe stepping down from the board on18October 2018, following the 2018 AGM, having 56 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS More information Operating responsibly PAGE 21 The board remains aware that the governance landscape in Diversity and Inclusion the UK continues to evolve, in particular with the Financial The board continues to value diversity in its broadest sense Reporting Councils publication on 16 July 2018 of a new throughout the Group and welcomes the progress it has made version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the 2018 in driving forward its diversity and inclusion agenda.
The board has reviewed the 2018 Code and will be board itself received unconscious bias training and members considering ways in which the Company can take early of the board were delighted to attend the inaugural Women account of the forthcoming changes.
Further to the findings of the Hampton-Alexander Review and the Parker Report, the board Conclusion continues to recognise a target of 33% of women on the Our responsibilities as a board include setting the Companys board and the Group has set a target of 33% of women on the strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them into executive committee and of direct reports to the executive effect and supervising the management of the business.
As at 30 June 2018, 12.5% of the board Theboard also takes responsibility, as a whole, for ensuring was female, 22.2% of the executive committee and 25.3% of that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
direct reports to the executive committee.
The Company also With this in mind, I would like to welcome all shareholders aims to have at least one Black, Asian, and minority ethnic toattend our annual general meeting AGM, which is BAME director on its boardby 2024. scheduled for11am on 18 October 2018 at TOR, Saint-Cloud Way, Maidenhead, Berkshire SL6 8BN.
The meeting provides Governance key features animportant opportunity for the board to meet with We are reporting this year against the April 2016 version of shareholders and we look forward to seeing you there.
the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the tablebelow summarises the key features of governance at Rank and indicates where more information can be found in Ian Burke this report.
During the year Rank was in compliance with the Chairman Code, save in respect of Code Provision B.
6.2 which requires 15 August 2018 the evaluation of the board by an external facilitator every three years.
Further details are set out below and on page 62.
Page Independence Over half of our board excluding the chairman is made up of independent non-executive directors.
61 Senior independent Our senior independent director is Chris Bell.
60 director Composition, The composition of the board and all its committees, complies with the Code.
In particular, the Codes 61-72 competence and requirements for recent and relevant financial experience and sector experience and the DTRs requirement experience for competence in accounting or auditing and sector competence are complied with.
Responsibilities and There are clear terms of reference for the board and its committees and there is a clear separation of duties 60-62 election between the chairman and chief executive roles.
All directors stand for re-election annually.
Attendance The directors have all attended an acceptable number of board and committee meetings.
59 Evaluation Individual director evaluations were completed.
However, the board determined that in light of recent and 62 forthcoming, board changes, performance evaluation of the board and its committees led by external facilitators should be postponed.
This will be undertaken during the first half of the 2018 19 financial year.
Internal audit We have an internal audit function, details of which can be found in the audit committee report.
64 External audit Ranks external audit was most recently tendered during 2009, resulting in a change of external auditors 65 and the appointment of EY at the Companys AGM on 22 April 2010.
This contract will be tendered again during the 2018 19 financial year.
Non-audit work policy We have a policy governing the award of non-audit work to our external auditor and we have disclosed 65 the non-audit work undertaken.
Remuneration During the year, the board and its remuneration committee have received briefings on external factors 76 influencing executive pay and are mindful of the need to curb excessive remuneration, to align incentives with the long-term interests of the Company and shareholders and to increase transparency.
A new directors remuneration policy was approved the Companys general meeting on 25 April 2018. www.
com | 57 Governance Corporate governance continued Corporate governance Code main principles statement Leadership Board composition Introduction As at the date of this report, the board consists of: The principal governance rules applying to UK companies a non-executive chairman: listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the UKCorporate Governance Code, revised by the Financial five independent non-executive directors: Reporting Council in April 2016 the Code.
three executive directors the chief executive, the finance This corporate governance statement covers the director and the managing director, retail.
followingareas: The names and biographies of all directors are published structure and role of the board and its committees: onpages 54 to 55. board effectiveness: Key board responsibilities The board is responsible for: audit committee: Group strategy, objectives and policies: nominations committee: finance committee: and internal controls and risk management: general and long-term progress of the Group within responsible gambling committee.
thepolitical, economic, environmental and social The directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a settingoftheday: three-year period.
Further details of the viability assessment sound governance, health and safety, and environmental are provided on page 43. policies: The report of the remuneration committee is set out financial performance, annual budgets and business plans: separately in the directors remuneration report on pages 76to 94. board and company secretary appointments: major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestments: Compliance with the Code The board confirms that, save in respect of Code Provision senior management structure, remuneration and B.
6.2 requiring the evaluation of the board by an external succession: facilitator every three years, it has complied with the provisions annual and half-year financial results and interim of the Code throughout the year ended 30 June 2018. management statements: Furtherdetails of the boards approach to Code Provision B.
6.2 are provided on page 62. responsible gambling and ethical behaviour: board committees and their terms of reference: and This corporate governance statement forms part of the directors report and accordingly is approved by the board investor relations.
and signed on its behalf by the company secretary.
Certain parts of this corporate governance statement have been Specific responsibilities are delegated to five formal board reviewed by the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, committees, which support the board in discharging its forcompliance with the Code, to the extent required.
These are: In this corporate governance statement the following Audit committee abbreviations are used: Alex Thursby chairman, Chris Bell and Steven Esom FCA Financial Conduct Authority Nominations committee Ian Burke chairman, Chris Bell, Steven Esom, Susan Hooper, Guoco Guoco Group Limited Lord Kilmorey and Alex Thursby Hong Leong Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad.
Remuneration committee Steven Esom chairman, Chris Bell, Susan Hooper and Alex Structure and role of the board and its Thursby committees The board is collectively responsible for the long-term success Responsible gambling committee of the Group.
The boards main responsibilities are set out Lord Kilmorey chairman, Chris Bell, Ian Burke, Susan below.
The board delegates certain matters to committees, as Hooper and John OReilly set out below, and delegates the detailed implementation of Finance committee matters approved by the board and the day-to-day operational Ian Burke chairman, Clive Jennings and John OReilly aspects of the business to the executive directors.
These committees report to the board and operate within defined terms of reference, which can be obtained from ourwebsite at www.
com en investors corporategovernance terms-of-reference.
html, or by writing to thecompany secretary.
Susan Hooper will become chair of the responsible gambling committee when Lord Kilmorey steps down from the board at the 2018 AGM.
James Pizey, head of reporting, will replace Clive Jennings on the finance committee on an interim basis.
58 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS In addition to the governance structure, as mentioned above, Insurance and indemnity the board from time to time delegates specific responsibilities The Company has arranged insurance cover and indemnifies to the executive directors and or to other committees.
For directors in respect of legal action against them to the extent example, this year an executive GDPR steering committee was permitted by law.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity established to provide additional support to the board, and applies in situations where a director has acted fraudulently anM&A sub-committee was delegated authority to oversee ordishonestly.
the completion of the acquisition of YoBingo.
Conflicts of interest The executive directors conduct the Companys business The directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of within clearly defined limits delegated by the board and interest.
In accordance with the Companys articles of subject to those matters reserved to the board.
association, it has adopted a policy and procedure for managing and, if appropriate, authorising actual or potential Board and committee meetings conflicts of interest.
Board meetings allow for regular and frank discussion of strategy, trading, financial performance, regulatory affairs, Directors are required to disclose any new appointments responsible gambling and risk management.
During the before agreeing to take them on, so that any conflicts of period under review, the boards committees also met interest can be identified and addressed.
The board also assesses regularly to discharge their duties.
In exceptional conflicts of interest before making any new appointments.
circumstances when a director is unable to attend a meeting, his or her comments on briefing papers are given in advance to the relevant chairman.
Board and committee meeting attendance The directors attendance at formally scheduled board and committee meetings during the year is recorded in the table below.
It shows the number of formally scheduled board and committee meetings attended by each director against the number of such meetings that director was eligible to attend.
Responsible Audit Nominations Finance Remuneration gambling Name Full board committee committee committee committee committee Chris Bell 8 8 4 4 2 2 n a 0 0 3 3 1 Henry Birch 7 7 n a N A 7 7 n a 3 3 Ian Burke 8 8 n a 2 2 8 8 n a 3 3 Steven Esom 8 8 4 4 2 2 n a 4 4 n a Susan Hooper 8 8 n a 2 2 n a 3 4 3 3 Clive Jennings 8 8 n a n a 8 8 n a n a Lord Kilmorey 7 8 n a 1 2 n a n a 3 3 2 Alan Morgan 1 1 n a n a n a n a n a 3 Owen ODonnell 3 3 1 1 0 0 n a 1 1 n a 4 John OReilly 1 1 n a n a 1 1 n a 0 0 5 Alex Thursby 8 8 4 4 2 2 n a 4 4 n a 1.
Henry Birch resigned from the board on 7 May 2018.
Alan Morgan joined the board on 7 May 2018.
Owen ODonnell resigned from the board on 19 October 2017 choosing not to stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
John OReilly joined the board on 7 May 2018.
Alex Thursby joined the board on 1 August 2017. www.
com | 59 Governance Corporate governance continued Division of responsibilities Non-executive directors There is a clear division of responsibilities between the The directors are satisfied that there are proper procedures in chairman and chief executive.
place to ensure that: Chairman they are receiving accurate and clear information for the The chairman is charged to: proper execution of their duties: manage the business of the board, preside over meetings the Groups objectives, policies and strategies are consistent and seek prompt and appropriate decisions: with enhancing shareholder value: work with the company secretary to ensure directors receive they are able to keep the Groups progress and development accurate and clear information for the proper execution of under review: their duties: they have an opportunity to challenge constructively, and oversee effective communication with shareholders: help develop, proposals on strategy: keep the Groups progress and development under review: there are effective communications with all shareholders: and ensure the chief executives Group objectives, policies and strategies are consistent with lasting shareholder value: the Groups governance is effective.
evaluate the board and its committees: and Senior independent director During the year, the senior independent director, Chris Bell, ensure the Groups governance is effective and in line with met with the other non-executive directors and reviewed the best practice.
chairmans performance without him being present.
The senior independent director has been throughout the year, Chief executive and remains, available to talk with shareholders who have The chief executives role is to: questions or concerns.
manage and promote the Groups long-term profitable development: exercise stewardship of intellectual property, human and financial resources and ensure that the relevant policies are implemented: plan strategy and prepare objectives and policies for board approval: ensure action is taken to achieve strategies, objectives and policies, as approved by the board: ensure objectives, policies and strategies are adopted for each Group business, that appropriate budgets are set for them individually, that their performance is monitored, and that guidance is given when needed: take responsibility for Group health and safety policies: make sure the Group complies with all relevant legislation: and lead ongoing communication with employees.
60 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Development Effectiveness Induction The composition of the board All new Board members receive an induction, led by the Size and structure company secretary.
During the year, the directors received The nominations committee keeps the boards size and information and training amongst other things on the structure under review.
The nominations committee is of following: theview that the board is well balanced, providing a collective competence to suit the Groups developing needs regulatory developments to the UK Listing Rules, Modern and an appropriate blend of executive and non-executive Slavery Act 2015, Market Abuse Regulation MAR and skill.
We believe that all our directors are suitably qualified to corporate governance: help steerand challenge Group strategy.
Further details of gender pay reporting: thechanges to the board during the year under review can befound on page 70. payment practices reporting: More than half of our board excluding the chairman are diversity: and independent.
Name Independent Appointed Skills and knowledge Chairman All directors are given regular written briefings with regard Ian Burke n a March 2006 tomatters affecting the Groups businesses, such as the Executive political and regulatory environment and corporate John OReilly no May 2018 governance reform.
Additionally, at the boards request, the Clive Jennings no July 2011 Groups auditor keeps the board abreast of key impact items Alan Morgan no May 2018 such as political and regulatory initiatives with regard to Non-executive narrative reporting, executive remuneration, going concern Chris Bell yes June 2015 and the role of the audit committee.
Steven Esom yes March 2016 Directors are invited to identify to the company secretary or Susan Hooper yes September 2015 human resources director any desired skills and knowledge Lord Kilmorey yes May 2012 enhancements that they require so that appropriate training Alex Thursby yes August 2017 can be arranged.
Ian Burke was originally appointed to the board on 6 March 2006.
He resigned Additionally, once a year, the directors have an opportunity from the board on 28 June 2011 and was reappointed on 3 July 2011.
On 15 July 2011 he became executive chairman.
On 6 May 2014 he resigned his role as chief to review and agree their respective training and development executive and became non-executive chairman with effect from that date.
needs during their one-on-one meetings with the chairman.
Committees Information and support The composition and chairmanship of our board committees Assisted by the company secretary, the chairman is are considered annually and have been considered during the responsible for ensuring that directors receive accurate and period under review.
timely information on all relevant matters.
Commitment The directors receive a monthly report of current and forecast The principal terms and conditions of appointment for each trading results and treasury positions.
director are set out on page 86, and their interests in Rank A rolling programme of items sets the agenda for board shares are detailed on page 92.
All non-executive directors are discussion.
This is regularly reviewed and updated to cover required to disclose their other significant commitments, topical issues and developments.
bothbefore appointment and following subsequent changes, so that the board can satisfy itself that each of the Comprehensive briefing papers on substantive agenda items directors has sufficient time to allocate to the Company to are circulated at least five working days before meetings where discharge their responsibilities effectively.
These contain detailed background information, are not permitted to take up non-executive directorships thus freeing time for informed debate.
We operate an open-door policy between the board and the During the year, Chris Bell was appointed as a non-executive management team.
Members of the management team also director of OnTheMarket plc and Gaming Realms plc and make regular board presentations to ensure a flow of Susan Hooper was appointed as a non-executive director operational information reaches the directors in a timely way.
ofUber Britannia Limited and Uber London Limited.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and, if required, may take independent advice and or professional development at the Companys expense.
The existing company secretary, Frances Bingham, took a six-month sabbatical from the Company, commencing 1 May 2018, and Luisa Wright has been appointed to serve as interim company secretary during this period.
com | 61 Governance Corporate governance continued Evaluation and effectiveness Relations with shareholders The board notes the requirement under the Code for an Dialogue with shareholders independent external review of its effectiveness, and that of The board as a whole takes responsibility for ensuring that its committees, every three years.
In respect of the year under satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The review, it noted the recent changes and proposed changes to principal method of communicating with all shareholders is its composition, namely the appointments of John OReilly via the corporate website, www.
Information can and Alan Morgan to the board and the announcement that beprovided in paper format, but only when shareholders Lord Kilmorey would not be standing for re-election at the specifically request it.
The Company has also since announced that As at 30 June 2018, 56.16% of Ranks shares were held by a Clive Jennings will be stepping down from the board on majority shareholder, Hong Leong, and a further 38.62% 17August 2018.
It also noted other recent changes to internal wereheld by 20 institutional shareholders.
personnel, including the appointment of a new head of internal audit.
Further to this, the board concluded that in Given that Rank is a 56.16% subsidiary of Guoco, the chief order to obtain the most valuable feedback from such a executive and other members of Ranks executive management review, its members should be able reflect on its effectiveness, team meet with representatives of Guoco four times a year to and that of its committees, under its new composition.
With discuss business performance and other issues that could this in mind, the board determined to conduct such external impact their financial statements.
review in the first half of the 2018 19 financial year.
During the year, directors receive updates on shareholder The board discussed its own effectiveness and that of the opinion.
The Company liaises with its institutional committees during the year under review and concluded that, shareholders and city analysts through a programme of overall, it had functioned effectively during this period, and investor relations and regular meetings with principal that the committees continued to discharge their duties in shareholders conducted by our chief executive, finance line with their respective terms of reference.
director and director of investor relations and communications.
During the period under review, a total Individual private meetings were held between the chairman of56 meetings with such shareholders were attended by and the board members at which feedback was given on oneormore of the chief executive, the finance director individual performance.
Following a private meeting of the andthe chairman.
non-executive directors, a private meeting took place between the senior independent director and the chairman, at which Formal briefings on shareholder opinion are circulated to feedback was given on the performance of the chairman.
theboard after presentation of the Companys interim and annual results.
The committees considered the work undertaken to implement the findings of the previous years evaluation, Constructive use of the annual general meeting noting that the following actions were ongoing: All shareholders are welcome to attend our annual general meeting.
Private investors are encouraged to ask questions.
in respect of the nominations committee, implementation The chairman and chairmen of the audit and remuneration of a plan to achieve diversity targets for the board, the committees are all present.
executive committee and the executive committees directreports: Shareholders are invited to vote on the formal resolutions contained in the notice of meeting, which is published at in respect of the remuneration committee, implementation least 20 working days beforehand.
The business presentation, of a process for aligning pay and conditions when voting results and a summary of the questions and answers acquisitions have been made: and are made available at www.
com, or in printed format in respect of the responsible gambling committee, onrequest.
redefining its purpose and goals and reviewing its terms Shareholders may also use electronic means to vote or ofreference.
appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the annual andother general meetings of the Company.
Election and re-election Next annual general meeting The Company notes that all new directors must stand for The 2018 annual general meeting will be held on 18 October election at the first annual general meeting after their 2018 and the full text of the notice of meeting, together appointment and, thereafter, at intervals of no more than with explanatory notes, is set out in a separate document at: three years.
This therefore applies in respect of John OReilly www.
com en investors shareholder-centre shareholderand Alan Morgan.
Non-executive directors are engaged for an meetings.
initial period of three years and must stand for election and re-election in the same way.
However, in any event, the If a shareholder has elected for paper information, this will Company complies with the Codes requirement for annual be enclosed with their hard copy of this annual report.
re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies and the Shareholders wishing to change that election may do so at Companys articles of association require all serving directors any time by contacting the Companys registrar, details of to retire annually.
which can be found on page 155 and on our website at Further to the above, all directors will be submitting www.
com en investors shareholder-centre contacts.
themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting, save that, having served over six years on the board, as announced on 27 June 2018, Lord Kilmorey will not be standing for re-election.
62 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Audit committee Other committee members Audit Chris Bell, Steven Esom committee Alex Thursby 1 Chairman The Committee follows a rolling agenda for discussions that oVERVIEW take place at each Committee meeting.
It also discusses such ROLE OF aUDIT COMmITTEE other relevant topics as agreed by the Committee chair.
The The role of the audit committee the Committee is Committee met on four formally scheduled occasions during primarilyto support the board in fulfilling its corporate the period under review, with attendance as follows: governance obligations so far as they relate to the Groups Attendance financial reporting, internal controls and risk management Committee eligibility systems.
This report provides insight into the workings and Name membership Since to attend activities of the Committee during the 2017 18 financial Chris Bell Jun 15 4 4 year.
It sets out the composition and responsibilities of the Steven Esom Mar 16 4 4 Committee.
It also outlines how, during the year under Aug 17, becoming review, the Committee provided oversight of the adequacy Alex Thursby chair on 19 Oct 17 4 4 and effectiveness of such reporting, controls and systems, the Sept 08 to Oct 17, considerations it gave to matters of financial risk and control stepping down as 2 and the key accounting judgements it reached.
Owen ODonnell chair on 19 Oct 17 1 1 2.
Owen ODonnell stood down as the Committee chair and as a member of the Composition and meetings Committee following the conclusion of the 2017 annual general meeting.
Each member of the Committee is an independent nonAt the invitation of the Committee chairman, the chief executive director with a wide range of relevant business executive, finance director, company secretary, head of experience, particularly in the gaming and wider leisure reporting and director of internal audit normally attend sectors.
Alex Thursby has extensive banking industry Committee meetings, as does the external auditor.
Other experience and is considered by the board to have recent and board directors and senior executives also attend as required.
relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
Further information regarding directors skills and experience can be Members of the Committee met separately during the year found in their biographies on pages 54-55. under review to discuss matters without the presence of management.
Each of the external auditor and the internal auditor was also provided the opportunity to discuss any issues with the Committee without the presence of executivemanagement.
Owen ODonnell was chairman prior to that date.
com | 63 Governance Audit committee continued Thisframework is reviewed annually.
The following specific Responsibilities controls exist within such framework: The Board is satisfied that the Committee has the resources and expertise to fulfil its responsibilities, which include the Financial control: there is a comprehensive system for following: reporting financial results to the board, a budgeting process incorporating an approved budget and biannual re-forecasts.
assessing the integrity of all public financial statements: The chief executive and finance director hold monthly review approving the activities of the internal audit function: meetings with the managing directors and their respective directors of finance.
managing the relationship with the external auditor: Financial reporting control: detailed policies and procedures reviewing and assessing the risk and internal control are in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial systems: and reporting.
overseeing the Companys internal code of conduct and Strategic control: the board reviews the Groups strategic monitoring the Companys whistleblowing procedures.
plans annually and regularly reviews strategic progress.
The Committees terms of reference are available from the Operational control: procedures are laid down in detailed Companys website at: manuals and reinforced by employee training.
com en investors corporate-governance terms-ofunit carries out a monthly self-audit to test key controls and reference.
html, or by writing to the company secretary.
report weaknesses to operational management.
Whilst the external assessment of the Committees Compliance control: across the Group we have teams whose performance during the year has been postponed see page responsibility it is to ensure day-to-day adherence to all 62, the boards view is that the Committee has performed legislation to which our operations are subject, including effectively during the 2017 18 financial year.
gambling,  and health and safety.
Senior executives and the internal audit team are responsible Risk and internal controls framework for monitoring overall compliance.
They report to the Risk management framework Committee and the board.
The Committee holds responsibility for assessing the ongoing Other: the executive directors and senior management meet effectiveness of the risk management framework and regularly with representatives from the businesses to address processes, and for undertaking an independent review of the financial, human resource, risk management and other risk mitigation plans which have been designed for material control issues.
In connection with this, the Committee regularly At its meetings during the year and up to the date of approval reviews the Groups corporate risk register, its principal risks, of this annual report and financial statements, the Committee and the controls and risk-mitigation actions put in place to examined the effectiveness of the Groups approach to internal manage them.
Employees from various departments are control by reviewing changes to controls made during the invited to attend as required.
During the year under review, year and reviewing the adequacy and progress of action plans the Committee requested a full review and refresh of the to address failings or weaknesses identified in the Groups Groups risk management framework including a review of system of internal control.
This process has been reviewed by the effectiveness of its first, second and third lines of defence, the board and meets the standards of the Financial Reporting which is ongoing.
Councils internal control guidance to directors.
Whilst overall responsibility remains with the board and the Committee, a key part of oversight of the risk management Code of conduct and whistleblowing process is executed through the Groups risk committee, Rank considers it important to maintain a culture of which provides a second line of defence for the business with openness, honesty and opposition to fraud, corruption and a view to ensuring that management is effective in identifying unethical business conduct.
Further to this, Rank has an and managing risks as they arise.
The risk committee reports employee code of conduct that sets out our values and to the board.
It comprises the chief executive, finance principles and guides behaviour.
Rank also has a fraud and director, company secretary, chief information officer and unethical business conduct whistleblowing policy which sets director of internal audit.
Its composition and remit is out the ways in which employees can voice their concerns currently being reviewed as part of the overall review of the about suspected fraud, corruption or unethical business Groups risk management framework as referred to above.
conduct on an anonymous basis.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring management Internal control framework reports on employee conduct, including our whistleblowing Ranks system of internal control is designed to manage procedures.
It also reviews managements biannual reports on ratherthan eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business , internal and external fraud and objectives, and provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance inadvertent breaches of legislation.
against material misstatement or loss.
To maintain control and direction over strategic, financial, operational and compliance internal audit issues, the board has put in place formally definedlines of The Committee has responsibility for the internal audit responsibility and delegation of authority.
Established function and the director of internal audit reports directly to procedures are geared to identifying, evaluating and managing the chairman of the Committee.
Amongst other things, the significant risks and to monitoring the Groupsbusinesses Committee considers the independence of such team, its andperformance.
Senior management is responsible for strategic focus, plans and activities.
making sure that controls and procedures are enforced.
64 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS The internal audit team seeks to determine whether the Audit tendering system of risk management, control and governance The Committee has noted the requirements regarding audit processes, as designed and operated by management, is tender and rotation of the audit engagement partner.
The adequate and functioning in such a manner as to ensure that: Companys external audit was most recently tendered during 2009, resulting in a change of external auditors and the risks are appropriately identified and managed in line with appointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the Companys annual the Companys risk appetite: general meeting on 22 April 2010.
There was a change of operations are run with sufficient and adequate controls external audit partner following completion of the 31 and in an efficient and effective manner: December 2015 interim review.
The Committee has given consideration to the timing for the next formal tender and significant financial, managerial and operating information has determined that it will be undertaken during the 2018 19 is accurate, reliable and timely: financial year.
There are no contractual obligations that employee actions are in compliance with policies, restrict the choice of external auditors.
standards, procedures, and applicable laws and regulations: and Non-audit work The Committee oversees the nature and amount of any relevant laws, rules and regulations are complied with in non-audit work undertaken by the auditor to ensure that it the operation of the business.
Consequently, the Committee is The director of internal audit provides regular reports on required to approve in advance all non-audit services priced behalf of the team to the Committee and reporting includes above 25,000. comparables, trend analysis and exceptions.
Findings from When seeking external accountancy advice in relation to nonthe internal audit teams reports are developed into action audit matters, the Groups policy is to invite competitive plans, the most significant of which are then monitored by tenders where appropriate.
It is also the Groups policy to the Committee.
balance the need to maintain audit independence with the desirability of taking advice from the leading firm in relation External auditor and effectiveness of external to the matter concerned and being efficient.
audit process Ranks auditor is employed to express an opinion on the Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP during the financial statements.
It reviews the systems of internal period under review can be found in note 3.
Rank is satisfied financial control and the data contained in the financial that the objectivity and independence of the audit partner statements to the extent necessary to express its opinion.
It and the audit engagement team have not been compromised discusses with management the reporting of operational by the fees paid for the non-audit work undertaken by Ernst results and the financial position of the Group, and presents & Young LLP.
Rank has used the services of other accounting findings to the Committee.
The directors in office at the date firms for non-audit work during the period under review.
of this report are not aware of any relevant information that has not been made available to the auditor and each director has taken steps to be aware of all such information and to ensure it is available to the Companys auditor.
Ernst & Young LLPs audit report is published on page 102 to 109.
In order to assess the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors, the Committee carried out an assessment.
This was facilitated by use of a questionnaire which posed questions in relation to different aspects of the external audit process.
Those individuals employed by Rank most actively involved with the day-to-day aspects of the audit provided responses to certain questions asked.
The feedback was considered, discussed and summarised by management and reported to the Committee and board.
Having conducted such review, and reviewed overall performance, the Company has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP has demonstrated appropriate qualifications and expertise throughout the period under review, and that the audit process was effective.
Further to this, it recommends its reappointment for 2018 19.
Ernst & Young LLP has confirmed that it is willing to continue in office and a resolution that it be reappointed at a remuneration to be agreed by the Committee will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
com | 65 Governance Audit committee continued Inlight of this and the Groups strategic plan, the selection of 2017 18 activity a three-year period for reviewing viability is felt appropriate.
The main items that the Committee discussed during the yearunder review are listed below.
The Committee considers both financial and non-financial risks that may threaten the business model, future Assessing the integrity of all public financial statements: performance, liquidity and solvency of the Group and has reviewing the 2017 annual report and financial identified the following principal risks: statements and half-year results, ensuring that a fair, a significant decline in retail revenue driven by a loss of balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups relevance to our existing customers combined with a failure ongoing position and prospects is presented: to attract new customers: reviewing the viability and going concern statements adverse changes to rates of tax: further detail on Ranks approach to its viability statement can be found on page 43 : adverse regulation: considering the impact of the IFRS 16 leasing standard: adverse gaming win: breaches of regulation: Approving the activities of the internal audit function: loss of licences: and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: technological risks including cyber security.
approving the scope of audit coverage: agreeing the annual audit plan: The impact of these risks in isolation or in combination could have an adverse impact on the financial position of the Group reviewing major audit findings and approving pre-mitigation.
Therefore, the Committee also considered the remediation plans: actions that can be taken to mitigate the risks and protect the appointing the new director of internal audit: viability of the Group.
These actions include: Managing the relationship with the external auditor: implementing significant cost reduction programmes: considering the views of the external auditor: reducing the level of capital expenditure: reviewing the objectivity, independence and effectiveness reducing the level of dividend paid to shareholders: and of the external auditor: seeking additional sources of finance.
reviewing audit and non-audit fees: Following a detailed examination of the risks, the likelihood Reviewing and assessing the risk and internal control systems: of their occurrence and potential mitigations, the Committee has concluded there is a reasonable expectation that the reviewing the overall approach taken to the management Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its of risk across the Group and the internal governance liabilities as they fall due over a three-year period.
structure further detail on Ranks approach to the management of risk, its principal risks and uncertainties Please see page 43 for the Companys viability statement in and the controls in place to mitigate them can be found line with section C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
on page 44 : Significant accounting issues monitoring developments in relation to information The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies security and data protection, including compliance with have been adopted and whether management has made the GDPR across the Group: appropriate estimates and judgements.
Significant accounting reviewing compliance with laws and regulations, issues considered by the Committee during the year included: including  matters: treatment of exceptional items: overseeing the implementation of changes to internal impairment review of intangible assets and property, plant processes as a result of matters reported as key events to and equipment: regulatory bodies and guidance published by regulatory bodies as learnings for the gaming industry: review of provisions, including those in relation to property leases, regulatory and tax matters: monitoring ERP system migration to Dynamics 365: review of the costs recognised as part of the Group Overseeing the Companys internal code of conduct and restructuring undertaken: whistleblowing procedures: review of proposed accounting following notice to convert reviewing notifications made under the Groups speaking a loan note: up whistleblowing and ethical code of conduct: and review of the fair values of intangible assets and contingent ensuring appropriate actions are taken following consideration recognised on the acquisition of YoBingo: investigation of notifications.
estimated financial impact of new accounting standards, notably IFRS 16: and viability statement Reviewing the long-term viability of the Group is a key focus accounting treatment for potential contingent assets and area for the Committee.
The business operates in a fast-moving liabilities.
consumer environment with changes to the regulatory, taxation and competitive environment on a regular basis.
66 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Key judgements and financial reporting matters The key accounting judgements considered and conclusions reached by the Committee during the year under review were: Key judgements and financial Audit Committee review reporting matters 2017 18 and conclusions Treatment of exceptional items Only items that are exceptional due to size or The Committee reviewed the accounting treatment of exceptional items and members were nature should be disclosed as an exceptional item in agreement that the items listed in note 4 are exceptional in size or nature in relation to by the Group.
the Group and therefore it is appropriate to disclose these separately.
Impairment review For goodwill and indefinite-life assets, The Committee reviewed managements impairment review process including, where the Group performs an annual impairment review.
applicable, the potential indicators of impairment and or reversal, cash flow projections and In addition, the Group reviews assets that are discount rates used to derive a value in use, and the sensitivity to assumptions made.
subject to amortisation ordepreciation for events During the year, the Committee reviewed total exceptional impairment charges of 13.9m or changes in circumstances that indicate that the inrespect of venues where performance has been below expectations and is not expected carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating toimprove.
The Committee also considered the exceptional reversal of 1.8m at one unit may not be recoverable.
If an asset has venuedueto a change in the local indirect tax rate and improvements in the local previously been impaired the Group considers economicenvironment.
whether there has been a change in circumstances The Committee was of the view that the net impairment charge recognised of 12.1m was or event that may indicate the impairment is no appropriate.
Further details of the impairment charges and reversals are disclosed in note 4. longer required.
TheGroup considers each venue to be a cash-generating unit and therefore the Please see page 126 for further detail.
review covers in excess of 149 individual cash-generating units.
Significant provisions for property leases The nature of provisions is that they require At both the half and the full year, the Committee considered the Groups approach to judgement due to uncertainty regarding their property lease provisions, the discount rates applied and managements recommendations, timing and amount.
The Group holds several in order to satisfy itself how management came to its best estimate of onerous property largeprovisions for onerous property leases.
In assessing the appropriate liability, the Group The Committee noted that the Group has a number of property leasehold contracts and was must estimate cash flows associated with the of the view that appropriate provision had been made against those property leases where property.
This may include consideration of the the unavoidable costs exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from the property.
forecast profitability of a club which still operates During the year, the Committee reviewed the exceptional net charge from property leases of at the site, potential sub-let income and estimates 9.1m, the majority of which was due to recurring losses at two clubs which are not expected of any dilapidation obligations.
to significantly improve and an agreement to sub-let a vacant property which did not complete due to a potential tenant deciding not to proceed despite advanced negotiation.
The Committee was of the view that the net charge was appropriate.
Further details of the property lease provisions held are disclosed in note 21 and the net exceptional charge made in the current year are disclosed in note 4. www.
com | 67 Governance Audit committee continued Key judgements and financial Audit Committee review reporting matters 2017 18 and conclusions Significant tax provisions The Group holds several large provisions for At both the half and the full year, the Committee considered the Groups approach to indirect tax issues and claims, in addition to the indirect tax provisioning, in order to satisfy itself how management came to its best normal provisions for corporation tax.
In assessing the appropriate indirect tax provisions, The Committee also receives and considers an update paper covering the Groups ongoing the Group must estimate the likely outcome of direct and indirect tax issues.
This covers both discontinued operations with historic tax uncertain tax positions where the tax judgement audits and continuing operations where tax returns submitted have been, or are likely to be, issubject to interpretation and remains to be challenged by the relevant tax authority.
agreed with the relevant tax authority.
The Committee was of the view that managements best estimate of the liability for the issues that remained outstanding was appropriate.
Convertible loan note During the year, the Group gave notice to convert The Committee considered managements paper in respect of conversion of the loan note.
It a 3.5m convertible loan note provided to a was noted that the estimation of fair value remains uncertain but, based on the information supplier.
As a result, the Group considered the fair presented by management, the Committee was satisfied that it is reasonable to recognise the value of the consideration provided for the investment at an amount equivalent to the initial loan value.
investment as well as whether the new investment Consideration was also given as to whether the investment represented an investment in gave significant influence in which case the entity associate under IAS 28.
Whilst there was evidence for and against, the Committee agreed would become an associate.
with management that there would not be significant influence over the supplier and therefore the investment did not represent an investment in associate.
Further details can be found in note 13.
Fair values of acquired intangible assets and contingent consideration recognised on acquisition of QSB Gaming Limited YoBingo The Group is required to estimate the fair value of The Committee reviewed the approach to estimating the fair value of acquired assets and acquired assets arising from business combinations contingent consideration payable.
as well as the fair value of contingent It was noted that the valuation methods and models used to determine fair value required consideration payable in the future.
anassessment of a number of judgements and estimates, including future performance of a relatively immature business operating in a high-growth market.
As a result, the fair values derived were inherently volatile to small changes in assumptions.
It was concluded that managements judgements and estimates were reasonable and therefore it was appropriate to recognise acquired intangible assets of 14.9m and contingent consideration of 23.4m.
Further details can be found in note 32.
68 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Key judgements and financial Audit Committee review reporting matters 2017 18 and conclusions Financial impact of new accounting standards New accounting standards can materially impact The Committee considered the impact of new accounting standards.
It was noted there were trading results.
no significant changes which impacted results in the current year.
Except for IFRS 16 which will apply to the Group from 1 July 2019, it is not expected that any new accounting standards will materially impact future results.
Contingent assets and liabilities In determining the accounting treatment of The Committee received updates throughout the year from management, incorporating legal potential assets and liabilities, management has and professional advice as appropriate, on the accounting treatment for potential assets and applied judgement in assessing the probability of liabilities in relation to disclosure or recognition.
The Committee was of the view that the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more management has appropriately treated such items in the financial statements.
Details of the uncertain future events not wholly within the liabilities are included in note 30. control of the Company.
Alex Thursby Chairman of the Audit Committee 15 August 2018 www.
com | 69 Governance Nominations committee Other committee members NOMINATIONS Chris Bell, StevenEsom, Susan Hooper, committee Lord Kilmorey and AlexThursby.
Ian Burke Chairman Introduction Appointment of chief executive officer The nominations committee the Committee comprises the John OReilly was appointed to the board as chief executive chairman and all the independent non-executive directors.
officer with effect from 7 May 2018.
The Committee is responsible for identifying relevant talent A sub-committee of the board comprising the chairman, and nominating all board appointments with due regard senior independent director and Susan Hooper was formed forthe benefits of diversity on the board, including toconduct the search process, assisted by external agency genderandethnicity.
The sub-committee reviewed a longlist of candidates and interviewed a shortlist of five people.
The 2017 18 activity sub-committee agreed to put forward from that shortlist those During the year under review the Committee met on two candidates whom it felt best met the selection criteria to meet formally scheduled occasions.
All other non-executive directors also then met those candidates and provided their feedback.
Following The main issues which the Committee discussed during a meeting of the Committee, Mr OReilly was recommended theyear under review were: to the board for appointment.
appointment of chief executive officer: At its meeting on 25 April 2018 the board unanimously appointment of managing director, retail as executive resolved to appoint Mr OReilly as chief executive officer.
director: Details of Mr OReillys experience and current and former roles can be found on page 54. board and senior management diversity: governance: Appointment of managing director, retail as executive director chairman succession planning: On 25 April 2018, the Committee agreed to recommend to review of committee terms of reference: the board that Alan Morgan, managing director, retail, be review of board skills and board tenure: and appointed to the board as an executive director.
Alan has an in-depth understanding of our venues business and the board and committee composition.
Committee was of the view that he will contribute significantly to the future development of Rank.
At its meeting, also held on 25 April 2018, the board unanimously resolved to appoint Mr Morgan as an executive director.
Details of Mr Morgans experience and current and former roles can be found on page 55.
70 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Successor to finance director Chairman succession planning Further to the announcement that Clive Jennings, finance Led by the senior independent director, the Committee has director, will be leaving the business on 17 August 2018, continued to discuss chairman succession planning.
However, theCompany confirms that it has commenced its search following the appointment of a new chief executive officer for a successor.
A sub-committee of the board comprising with effect from 7 May 2018, it was decided that further thechairman and the chief executive has been formed to discussion would be postponed until the next financial year.
It will be assisted by an external Committee terms of reference agency.
Inthe mean time, the board has approved the During the year, the Committee reviewed its terms of appointment of James Pizey, head of reporting, as interim reference and proposed to the board that its remit be chieffinancial officer.
expanded to include reviewing the structure, size and Board and senior management diversity composition including the skills, knowledge, experience, During the period under review the Committee has diversity and ethnicity of the executive committee, as well considered the issue of diversity and inclusion in the context asthe board itself.
This proposal was approved by the board of both the board and senior management, and is mindful of and the terms of reference amended accordingly.
The formal the benefits that diversity brings.
terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website at www.
com en investors corporate-governance On 29 March 2018, and in accordance with the requirements terms-of-reference.
html, or by written request to the of the Equality Act 2010, the Company published its gender companysecretary.
pay gap figures for the UK group as at 5April 2017, further detail of which can be found at http: www.
com en Board and committee composition, board responsibility.
This included the fourlegal entities where tenure and review of board skills the Group employs more than 250 people in the UK.
The Committee keeps the boards size and structure under The boards own diversity and inclusion policy is to recruit review.
The Committee is of the view that the board is well the best candidate having regard to the skills and experience balanced, providing a collective competence to suit the required, but with a mind to diversity, including gender and Groups developing needs and an appropriate blend of ethnic diversity.
The board continues to aim to achieve 33% executive and non-executive skills.
The Committee retains female representation on the Companys board and 33% this view, notwithstanding that Lord Kilmorey will not be women on the Companys executive committee and of direct submitting himself for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, reports to the executive committee by 2020.
Additionally, and there is no intention to appoint a replacement at this theboard continues to aim to have at least one BAME time.
The Committee believes that all the directors are directorby2024 as recommended by the Parker Report.
suitably qualified to help steer and challenge Group strategy.
Further details of the gender breakdown of directors, The composition and chairmanship of our board committees seniormanagement and the Group can be found on are considered annually and have been considered during the page31of thisreport.
Additionally, details of skills and length of tenure can be found on page 72.
Governance During the year, the Committee received briefings on corporate governance reform, and specifically the proposed changes to the Code, from the company secretary.
It notes, inparticular, the proposals in respect of workforce engagement, board composition and diversity.
com | 71 Governance Nominations committee continued Attendance at formally scheduled Committee meetings Attendance Committee eligibility Name member since to attend Notes Chris Bell Jul 15 2 2 Ian Burke Jun 14 2 2 Ian Burke has been Committee chairman since 25 June 2014 Steven Esom Mar 16 2 2 Susan Hooper Sep 15 2 2 Lord Kilmorey Feb 14 1 2 Lord Kilmorey will step down from the Committee on 18 October 2018 Owen ODonnell Feb 14 0 0 Owen ODonnell stood down from the Committee on 11 September 2017 Alex Thursby Aug 17 2 2 Alex Thursby joined the Committee on 1 August 2017 The charts below illustrate the diversity, skills, experience and tenure of the board as at 30 June 2018.
Gender age of executive and non-executive directors Non-executive directors 40-49 years 5 1 6 1 Executive directors 50-59 years 3 3 5 60 years Male female 3 Skills and experience of non-executive directors Tenure of executive and non-executive directors Stock Exchange listed company 1-3 years 6 5 People remuneration 3-6 years 5 2 6-9 years government relations 2 4 digital media social media 3 marketing brands 5 international 5 Mobile any business 4 finance accounting 2 Gambling retail or remote 2 broader leisure 3 online any business 5 72 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Responsible gambling committee Other committee members RESPONSIBLE Chris Bell, Ian Burke, Susan Hooper and GAMBLING JohnOReilly COMMITTEE Lord Kilmorey Chairman Role and Responsibilities 2017 18 Activities The responsible gambling committee the Committee assists During the year under review, the Committee met on three in the formulation and monitoring of the Groups responsible formally scheduled occasions.
Its activities included: gambling strategy, and enables particular focus to be placed reviewing and agreeing the Groups responsible gambling on this important topic.
plan, and tracking activity against such plan: The Committee reports to the Rank board, which retains reviewing and advising on the draft content in respect of principal oversight of matters relating to gambling-related responsible gambling and social responsibility that formed harm reduction and gambling regulation.
Matters arising part of the Groups response to the UK Gambling canbe referred directly to the board and or the audit Commissions Annual Assurance Statement: committee as appropriate, the latter of which retains considering the introduction of the national online  for monitoring the overall self-exclusion scheme, GAMSTOP, alongside the Companys effectiveness of Ranks internal controls.
own approach to self-exclusion: and The Committees responsibilities include: examining learnings from, and the measures adopted by, reviewing and making recommendations on Ranks strategy other operators and other sectors of the gambling industry and policy in relation to gambling regulation and the in order to benchmark Group progress to improve and prevention of gambling-related harm: advance its safer gambling capabilities.
keeping under review Ranks policies and systems designed Of particular note during the year under review, the to protect children and other vulnerable persons from Committee has considered and contributed to Ranks being harmed or exploited by gambling: response to the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and keeping under review the effectiveness of Ranks systems Sports DCMS consultation on proposals for changes to foridentifying and interacting with customers who are at gaming machines and social responsibility measures.
It has risk of becoming problem gamblers, including ensuring also confirmed the Groups own roadmap for improving that customers have access to help should they develop consumer protection in this area, which is aligned with the gambling problems: expectations of the Government.
reviewing and making recommendations in relation to Further to this, the Committee broadly welcomes the package theresources available within, and to, Rank to ensure that of measures that the DCMS calls for in its response to the vulnerable or potentially vulnerable persons are identified, consultation, which includes a greater use of available data monitored and, where appropriate, promptly denied access todetect signs of potential at-risk and problem play and the to Ranks facilities for gambling: and implementation of player tracking and limits on gaming machines.
The Group is committed to implementing these reviewing the content of Ranks Annual Assurance new measures and to ensuring their proper evaluation in Statement to the UK Gambling Commission, prior to thecoming year.
itssubmission to the Rank board for approval.
The formal terms of reference of the Committee are available at www.
com en investors corporate-governance terms-of-reference.
html or by written request to the companysecretary.
com | 73 Governance Responsible gambling committee continued The Committee also seeks to ensure it is abreast of upcoming a Group-wide review of Ranks Keep It Fun responsible developments.
In this vein, the Committee is fully aware of gambling messaging to assess awareness and to assist in Gambling Commission plans in the coming year to review identifying further improvement.
the sufficiency of rules relating to online gambling.
As the In addition to the above, the Grosvenor retail business, along Groups digital business continues to grow, the Committee is with other members of the National Casino Forum, laid plans conscious that Rank must keep up with technological for the introduction of improved player tracking and machine developments and contribute positively to the limits to be introduced during the coming year.
implementation and enhancement of increased protection forcustomers in this area.
Further details of the Groups activities during the year and focus on the year ahead can be found on page 28.
Rank has continued to review and implement the learnings from the publications of the UK Gambling Commission and The Group is committed to achieving the highest standards other applicable regulators.
During the year, various initiatives soas to ensure a fair and safe gambling experience for its have been implemented and or further progressed, notably: customers.
The Committee remains focused on doing all thatit can to assist the Group with this commitment.
the expansion and enhancement of deposit monitoring in the digital business, significantly increasing the number of customers receiving proactive responsible gambling Lord Kilmorey contact: Chairman of the Responsible Gambling Committee 15 August 2018 identification of casinos to participate in a trial during 2018 19 of predictive alerts developed in partnership with the Canadian organisation, Focal Research: further development of the digital propensity model to assist in detecting at-risk and problem behaviour, including the introduction of a number of approaches to intervention for trial: and attendance Committee membership Attendance Name since eligibility to attend Notes Chris Bell Mar 16 3 3 Henry Birch Mar 16 3 3 Henry Birch stepped down from the committee on 7 May 2018 Ian Burke Mar 16 3 3 Susan Hooper Jul 17 3 3 Susan Hooper will step up as Committee chair on 18 October 2018 Lord Kilmorey Mar 16 3 3 Lord Kilmorey will step down from the Committee on 18 October 2018 John OReilly May 18 0 0 John OReilly joined the Committee on 7 May 2018 Lord Kilmorey will step down as chair on 18 October 2018 and Susan Hooper will become chair on such date.
74 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS finance committee Other committee members FINANCE John OReilly, Clive Jennings committee Ian Burke Chairman The finance committee the Committee comprises the 2017 18 activity chairman, chief executive, and finance director.
The The Committee met on eight occasions during the year committee is authorised by the board to approve capital andthe issues it discussed included: expenditure and make financing decisions for the Group up trading: to authorised limits.
The Committee also acts as the boards disclosure committee for the purposes of the Market Abuse financial reporting: Regulations MAR which came into force on 3 July 2016. estate management issues: The Committees terms of reference are available from the treasury short-term deposits and counter-party limits: Companys website at www.
html, or by writing to the insurance cover and uninsured risks: company secretary.
review of non-executive director fees: payment of intragroup dividends: the merger of the Groups two Belgian subsidiaries: review of Group subsidiaries board composition: M&A opportunities: the Companys loan to and call option over shares in its digital platform software provider Bede Gaming : and commercial agreements within its delegated authority.
Committee meeting attendance Committee Attendance Name member since eligibility to attend Notes Henry Birch May 2014 7 7 Henry Birch resigned from the Committee effective from 7 May 2018 Ian Burke Mar 2006 8 8 Ian Burke has been Committee chair since 15 July 2011 Clive Jennings will step down from the Committee on 17 August 2018 andJames Pizey, the Groups head of reporting, will join the Committee Clive Jennings Jul 2011 8 8 onan interim basis.
John OReilly May 2018 1 1 John OReilly joined the Committee on 7 May 2018 www.
