Directors report Accountability Audit and Risk Committee the Committee The Committee performs a key oversight rolefor the Board, reviewing and monitoring all aspects of the Groups financial reporting, risk management procedures and the robustness of its internal controls.
Sue Ford Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee met four times during the consistency or changes to The Committee financial year, aligned with the Companys accountingpolicies: The Committee comprises three independent financial reporting and risk management Nonexecutive Directors.
For the majority the Companys response to changes in cycle.
It operates within terms of reference, theregulatory environment: and of the year the Committee was chaired by last approved by the Board in July 2017, which Gavin Tipper, who has substantial financial significant financial reporting judgements canbe found on the Companys website experience and the necessary professional contained in the financial statements.
These set out the roles of qualification to undertake the role.
the Committee, in line with the FRC guidance Recommending to the Board Following the appointment of Gavin Tipper and revised ethical standards published last the reappointment of both the internal as Chairman of the Board in July 2018, the year and the 2016 UK Corporate Governance and external auditor: membership of the Board committees was Code under which the Company is reporting.
a policy on the provision of nonaudit reviewed.
In respect of changes to the Audit The Committee is primarily responsible for: and Risk Committee, it was recommended services by the auditor: that Sue Ford, who has recent and relevant Monitoring whether the Annual Report is fair, financial experience, be promoted to Chair balanced and understandable and the effectiveness of the Companys internal the Committee, and Elizabeth Peace, who provides the information necessary for audit function: has competence relevant to the sector, be shareholders to assess the Companys the effectiveness of the Companys appointed as a member of the Committee.
financial position and performance, external audit function: business model and strategy, including Since July, the Committee has comprised: the integrity of the financial statements the Groups long term viability and Sue Ford: a qualified accountant who has and all related announcements: continued use of the going concern basis previously held the post of CFO at a listed the nature and level of nonaudit services of preparation: UK property company and has served on provided by the external auditor: and the interim and annual financial the Committee for four years: compliance with statutory and listing statements, including the appropriateness Michael Farrow: brings over 20 years obligations.
of accounting policies and key judgements experience of UK listed and private made: and property companies and funds where Reviewing the dividend.
he worked as a director and a company the Companys financial and secretary: and As part of the Boards evaluation process, internalcontrols: the effectiveness of the Committee, the Elizabeth Peace: brings extensive the Companys risk management function: performance of the Chair and feedback knowledge of the property sector and has arrangements for employees to raise provided to the Board were assessed.
previously served on the audit committee concerns in confidence: TheDirectors considered the Committees of a listed property company.
the Companys procedures for detecting performance to be either good or outstanding.
fraud, bribery and tax evasion: 88 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Appointed Resignation to from Audit & Risk Audit & Risk Meetings Tenure Other Committee Committee attended Qualifications on Board committees Gavin Tipper 28 06 2012 24 07 2018 4 4 MBA, CA, 7 N R BCom, BAcc Sue Ford 30 01 2014 4 4 ACA, 5 N BSc Hons Michael Farrow 23 08 2011 4 4 FCIS, MSc 7 N R Elizabeth Peace 24 07 2018 0 0 BA Hons 1 C Committee meetings held during the year Meeting date Key matters discussed Attendees Report from the Valuers on the shopping centres The Committee October 2017 Report from management and evidence provided, to confirm that the results for 2017 CEO were fair, balanced and understandable Deputy CEO Consideration of dividend CFO Risk matrix Financial Controller Consideration of the viability and going concern statements External Auditor Review of external auditor and resolution to reappoint KPMG Internal Auditor Report from the external auditor regarding work undertaken on the 2017 results Valuers Comprehensive review of correspondence with the Australian Tax Office and advice received from the Groups Australian and Irish counsel and tax advisers An update from the internal auditor Timetable and plan for audit tender Private meeting with the external auditor Meeting with prospective audit firms The Committee January 2018 CEO Deputy CEO CFO Financial Controller Presentation of audit tender by prospective firms The Committee April 2018 Report from the Valuers of the London Serviced Office portfolio CFO Report from management Financial Controller Consideration of the 2018 interim results External Auditor Consideration of interim dividend Internal Auditor Consideration of the risk environment faced by the Group Valuers Report from external auditor Update and progress on the internal audit Presentation of draft antifacilitation tax evasion policy Consideration of FRC Audit Committee Reporting document Consideration of JSE report on financial statement disclosures Report from management The Committee July 2018 Approval of year end audit plan CEO Consideration of significant areas of judgement and uncertainty Deputy CEO Annual risk management review CFO Governance update Financial Controller Consideration of the effectiveness of the internal audit External Auditor Update from the internal auditor Internal Auditor Presentation of the external auditors audit planning document GDPR and data protection policy Private meeting with the internal auditor Key to committees: C Corporate Social Responsibility Committee I Investment Committee N Nominations Committee R Remuneration Committee RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 89 Directors report Accountability Audit and Risk Committee the Committee continued The Committee receives a summary of Risk management function Governance the status of the audit plan and on open Each division within the Company undertakes Both the external auditor and the Company issues arising from completed audits from its own risk analysis, which are aggregated Secretary provide corporate governance Grant Thornton, the Companys internal together to form the Companys risk register.
updates to the Committee advising of auditor, who attends and presents to the Quantitatively, the threshold for a risk to be recent publications, guidance, legislation Committeeregularly.
determined as Significant was set as having orregulations.
a potential underlying financial impact of In response to the antifacilitation of tax 5 million to 10 million.
Qualitatively, risks Consideration of risks evasion and GDPR regulations, the Company were also considered relative to the potential undertook a risk review and a data inventory RDIs principal risks adverse effect on the Groups reputation e. g. to consider its proportionate response.
In Prior audit risks identified adverse media attention causing long term both regards the Company concluded that it Risk horizon brand or operational damage.
considered the risk to be low.
Policies were Common internal audit risks Detailed review meetings were held with established, reviewed by the Audit and Risk departmental heads and the identified risks, Committee and approved by the Board.
Both including their mitigations and associated matters have been added to the risk register ratings, were challenged as appropriate.
and the Groups response to GDPR was Oncecollated, the significant risks to the subject to internal audit.
Audit plan Group were discussed, reviewed and analysed All employees are provided with an induction to determine any significant change in the Rationale and high level scope for each audit on appointment covering the history of Groups risk profile.
proposed is presented to the Committee for the Company, the culture, governance and consideration Once approved by the Executive Directors, HR policies and all are given a handbook the detailed risk register is presented to the containing Company policies, which they must Audit and Risk Committee twice a year, with confirm that they have read and understood.
an overview of the process undertaken and Training has been provided to staff on GDPR, asummary of findings and changes noted.
Tax Evasion, AntiBribery, Share Dealing and Audit the Whistleblowing policies.
Relative to the previous year, key changes Internal audit undertaken.
Every audit issue is noted were: A copy of the Whistleblowing Policy can given a rating, as is the overall report.
Findings are befound on the Companys website heightened risk of changing retail reported back to the Committee www.
No incidences of consumer behaviour and its consequential whistleblowing occurred during the year.
impact on valuations: a deterioration in the general outlook for Internal controls and internal audit Europe leading to potential volatility in An internal audit plan is agreed in July each Monitoring currency exposures: year to align with the annual risk management decreased development risk following review, which is presented to the Committee Actions required are monitored and the status of conclusion of the Groups only material outstanding actions reported at each meeting at that time.
The internal auditors plan development at Ingolstadt: therefore addresses principal risks identified, targets verification of critical mitigating actions increased risk of share price volatility or, if appropriate, provides independent brought about by prolonged Brexit negotiations, negative sentiment towards assurance on the Companys response to significant changes in regulation or legislation.
the sector generally and a weaker Feedback investormarket: and The plan allows for flexibility where required Feedback is sought from those engaged with the to address change or transactional activity increased financial and reputational risks internal auditor at the conclusion of each audit throughout the year.
arising from the pace of regulatory change.
90 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 During the financial year Grant Thornton has The incumbent KPMG team has been led Non-audit services reported on, inter alia: for the last five years by Niamh Marshall, A policy has been established outlining the who demonstrated a commitment to audit circumstances where the engagement of the leasing process, which was considered quality through a high degree of professional the external auditor for nonaudit services is effective, although some weaknesses were scepticism, while ensuring challenge that considered acceptable or otherwise.
Although found: was appropriate for the business with judgement would be applied to each specific the valuation process, which concluded consideration of industry practice.
Continuity circumstance as it arises, the Committee that the process was well designed: in the team has been maintained which has has recommended, and the Board believes, service charge, with recommendations to contributed to a highly efficient audit process.
that the following services would not in be implemented by the end of the year: most circumstances compromise auditor From consultation with management it was UK retail health and safety, where low risk independence: considered that the audit staff demonstrated was concluded with improved awareness competency and experience to perform tax compliance services: throughout the organisation: effectively in their roles.
Audit queries were provision of accounting advice and German property management, which raised and dealt with in a proactive and guidance: received anumber of recommended timely manner and there was sufficient general advice: improvements to this area: challenge with regard to areas of judgement acting as reporting accountant under and estimate, internal controls and areas of response to GDPR, which was considered theListing Rules: heightened risk.
effective, with weaknesses identified subsequently addressed: and due diligence work: and They communicated throughout both the capital project management, which interim review and annual audit cycles, occasional reporting on the operation concluded that the team were competent ofinternal controls.
confirming their independence, objectivity and capable, with a recommendation and materiality thresholds at each stage.
Conversely, the Board believes that the to conduct lookback reviews to identify Publications were provided to management services listed below would, in most lessons learnt.
throughout the year on emerging issues and circumstances, compromise auditor financial reporting updates.
Written reports In all cases appropriate management independence: to the Committee were clear and concise and responses were provided to findings and the accounts preparation and bookkeeping: presentations at meetings were regarded as status of outstanding actions reported to being balanced, clear and understandable.
design or implementation of complex tax the Committee regularly.
At the end of the and accounting structures: year allactions had either been completed or Annually, the Committee holds a private design or installation of financial systems: werein progress.
discussion with KPMG, without management present, to discuss any issues that the auditor internal audit of financial systems: Recommendation: The Committee is may wish to bring to their attention.
valuation services, except where required satisfiedwith the internal auditors work and under statute e. g. UK CA 2006 s596 : and notes its contribution towards a continuous Taking into regard these discussions, improvement in the Companys internal thereports presented and feedback from providing litigation support of an controls and strategic planning.
Ithas management, the Committee concluded that advocacynature.
therefore been recommended to the Board the external auditor remained effective and If the amount of nonaudit services becomes that Grant Thornton continue to act as the maintained independence.
excessive compared to the level of the audit Companys internal auditor for the 2019 However, KPMG Ireland have acted as auditor fee, there may be a commercial threat to financial year.
to the Company since 2010 and, as the auditor independence.
rotation of the audit partner was due this year, External audit and This year KPMG undertook tax compliance the Committee have taken the opportunity externalauditor work for the Company and the ratio of to retender the audit.
The process for the nonaudit fees to audit fees was 0.25:1, which KPMG met with the Committee three times retender is discussed in detail overleaf.
was not regarded as a threat to the auditors during the year.
Before the year end audit, Norecommendation for reappointment has independence.
KPMG presented a report outlining their therefore been necessary this year and the planned audit approach which was discussed The following fees were paid to KPMG during Committee extends its sincere thanks and in depth with the Committee.
Materiality was the year and are included in the net operating gratitude to Niamh Marshall and her team at set at 17.2 million, 1 per cent of total assets, income in the Groups income statement.
which represents the level at which KPMG considered misstatements would reasonably Year ended Year ended influence users of the financial statements.
31 August 31 August Assurances were provided as to the quality m 2018 2017 of the audit and the ongoing independence Audit fees 0.4 0.4 of the auditor.
After due consideration, the Nonaudit fees 0.1 Committee concurred.
Total 0.5 0.4 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 91 Directors report Accountability Audit and Risk Committee the Committee continued Two audit firms delivered highly professional Audit tender October 2017 presentations to the Committee in April and The incumbent auditor, KPMG Ireland, was the Committee was confident that both firms appointed following a tender process in 2010.
Timetable established would be able to deliver a highquality audit, The Audit and Risk Committee confirmed there were no independence issues and that last year that the 2019 audit contract would the teams would be able to work well with be placed to tender.
This aligns with the RDI management and the Committee.
Both scheduled rotation of the current audit firms were recommended to the Board, with partner.
Six audit firms were considered to be December 2017 a preference for KPMG London based on their invited to tender but, due to conflict, Deloitte commitment to leverage their Irish firm to and BDO were discounted due to their tax Request for proposal prepared and signed off, help ease the transition.
The Committee looks setting out information on the Group including advisory engagements with the Group, as forward to working with the new engagement historical audit issues and judgement areas were Grant Thornton due to their position as partner who will provide a fresh perspective.
KPMG London, PwC London and EY London were invited to submit tender KPMG London attended the October 2018 documents.
Audit and Risk Committee meeting, but otherwise have had no involvement in the The process for the retendering is set out January 2018 2018 year end audit.
The new team will be opposite: responsible for issuing an independent review Three audit firms invited to meet the Committee opinion on the Groups interim results for the on an informal basis as an opportunity to ask questions prior to preparing their tender six months ending 28February 2019. documents Review of the consistency, or changes, of accounting policies andaccounting standards The Committee has reviewed the impact of February 2018 new accounting standards which are endorsed and issued but are not yet effective.
Data room opened, and meetings set up with senior employees to meet audit firms Accounting standards which have been issued but are not yet effective, and which could have an impact on the financial statements, are: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with April 2018 Customers: and Two audit firms presented their tender proposals IFRS 16 Leases.
to the Committee, followed by a Q&A session IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 are not expected to have a material quantitative impact on the financial statements but are likely to require expanded disclosure.
Detailed comment has been included within Note 2.1 to the financial July 2018 statements.
Conclusion reached and incoming audit partner IFRS 16 will require the Group to recognise attends Committee meeting to agree level of significant liabilities and assets in relation to involvement in the 2018 year end audit process its lease commitments.
This will be applicable for the Group from 1 September 2019.
Details on the impact of this standard have also been included within Note 2.1 to the financial statements, including an indication based October 2018 on information currently available, of their The appointment of KPMG LLP is approved by the quantum.
Board and their appointment is announced on the regulatory news service 92 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Judgement is also required in determining Review of significant judgements Recommendation to the Board whether an acquisition of property is Valuation of investment property As part of the process of finalising the Annual an acquisition of an asset or a business Report and Accounts, the Board collectively Investment property valuation remains combination.
The criteria were assessed in and, in some instances, the Directors the most significant judgement in the determining whether the Kingston property individually, are required to make certain Groups financial statements.
A number of acquisition in December 2017 constituted an disclosures and statements.
In particular, assumptions underlie the valuations, such as asset acquisition or a business combination.
the Board is required to make statements market yields, which are a reflection of market in respect of the system of internal controls The Committee was satisfied that judgements evidence and are highly judgemental.
and representations to the auditor contained were well founded and that the conclusions The Group uses valuations determined by within the UK Corporate Governance Code, reached were appropriate.
independent valuers in accordance with including those within the Remuneration IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 Lease classification Report and Directors responsibilities as the fair value of its investment property.
There is also a requirement for The classification of leasehold interests The valuations are based upon assumptions each Director to confirm that all relevant in investment property as a finance lease including estimated rental values, future rental information has been passed to the auditor so or operating lease is an area of significant income, anticipated maintenance costs, future that they can undertake the audit and provide judgement under existing accounting development costs and appropriate market their opinion as well as stating that the Annual standards IAS 17.
This is particularly relevant yields.
The valuers also make reference Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, in 2018 as a result of the acquisition of to market evidence of transaction prices balanced and understandable.
leasehold interests in IHL and London Serviced for similar properties.
TheCommittee met Offices that were accounted for as operating The Committee received a significant amount with the valuers of its UK Shopping Centre leases prior to acquisition.
of information during the course of the year portfolio in October 2017, but due to the lack which, when taken together, substantially The Group considers the appropriateness of transactional evidence currently available provided the assurance to support the in the UK for this asset class, the Committee of the classification of its leasehold interests required disclosures and requirements.
in investment property as operating or thought it appropriate to meet with them Management provided a schedule for the again in October 2018.
The Committee finance leases on a property-by-property 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, which basis, based on the terms and conditions of was satisfied that the valuations were crossreferenced the required attestations appropriately prepared and that there was each lease on inception.
The assessment is to the various reports, documents and based on a balanced evaluation of both the sufficient evidence to conclude on market frameworks from which the Committee value, albeit that the degree of variability and specific contractual terms and substance of derived the necessary assurances.
each arrangement, such as: the lease term judgement required has clearly increased.
Further details are provided in Note 2.3. constituting a major part of the economic The Committee reviewed a full draft of the life of the property: the fair value of each 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, and Corporate and property acquisitions asset relative to present value of minimum considered whether they regarded the report lease payments: a qualitative review of the Judgement is required in determining whether as fair, balanced and understandable, whether the acquisition of a corporate is an acquisition transfer of the significant risks and rewards key messages were clearly highlighted, and of ownership: and the allocation of the lease of the underlying assets and liabilities or a full explanations provided where necessary.
This is particularly payments to the land and building elements of Feedback was provided where areas of each property.
The Committee is satisfied with relevant given the corporate acquisitions of improvement were required.
IHL and the London Serviced Offices portfolio the conclusions reached and notes that on Following the review, the Committee was of adoption of IFRS 16 in 2019, this option will no acquired during 2018. the opinion that the Annual Report provided longer be available to the Group.
the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Sue Ford Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 25 October 2018 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 93
