Group risk committee report Group risk committee chairmans annual statement On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present my first group risk committee report as chairman and would like to thank my predecessor, Kathryn Matthews, for her support throughout my transition to this role.
The identification, management and mitigation or acceptance of risk is essential to the success of the firm.
The group risk committee plays a vital part in helping support the firms governance structure and the ongoing monitoring of the firms risk management framework.
The committee plays a fundamental role in setting the tone and culture that promotes effective risk awareness across the firm.
The following sections set out the committees responsibilities and the principal areas of risk upon which we have focused during the year.
Membership and attendance During the year, the macroeconomic environment, political challenges and heavy regulatory agenda, coupled with Meetings attended Director eligible to attend firm-specific risks, have kept the committee fully occupied.
1 There have been ongoing enhancements to our risk T L Duhon chairman 3 3 management and risk appetite frameworks and we are 2 C M Clark 1 1 constantly assessing our skill sets to ensure that we are J W Dean 4 5 upskilling or bringing in expertise as required given the S F Gentleman 5 5 constantly changing risk landscape.
J N Pettigrew 4 5 The committee apportions its time between the planned periodic review of key risks and the close scrutiny of topical business risks as they develop.
This approach allows us to Former director ensure that emerging risks can be identified and debated.
3 K A Matthews 4 4 As a result, details of management risk mitigation plans 1.
Terri Duhon joined the committee on 2 July 2018 and was appointed chairman on are well understood and appropriate resource is provided.
Colin Clark joined the committee on 24 October 2018 3.
Kathryn Matthews retired from the committee on 12 September 2018 Committee meetings Our current members are the independent non-executive Roles and responsibilities directors, who met on five occasions in 2018 2017: four.
I joined the committee in July 2018 and was appointed The key activities of the committee are to provide chairman in September 2018, and Colin Clark joined the oversight on the firms risk appetite and framework.
To do this we: In addition to the members of the committee, standing Review and discuss reports from the risk team on invitations are extended to the chairman, the executive risk appetite issues including any early warning directors, the chief risk officer and the head of internal signals and advise the board accordingly audit.
All attend committee meetings as a matter of course Discuss any loss events and near misses, the and inform the committees discussions.
Other executive lessons learned and management action taken committee members and risk team members are invited Review end-to-end process risk assessments to attend the committee from time-to-time as required to undertaken and any resulting internal control present and advise on reports commissioned.
enhancements I regularly meet with the chief risk officer in a combination Advise the board on the risk aspects of proposed of formal and informal sessions.
I am still going through my major strategic change induction process, which has included a meeting with the Review risk weightings on performance objectives risk and compliance team in Liverpool and meetings with for executive remuneration senior management across all divisions of the group.
I will Receive focused reports on current business and continue to meet with the chief risk officer and her team and horizon risks with senior management as a matter of course throughout the year to discuss the business environment and to gather their Review prior to board approval key regulatory views of emerging risks.
submissions including the Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP document Full terms of reference for the committee are reviewed annually and are available on the companys website.
66 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Governance The committee has an agreed annual standing agenda to A number of areas of operational risk were stressed as part of cover key risk events in the year, which are required to be the annual ICAAP.
Following robust debate and challenge, the addressed in accordance with the terms of reference.
Prior committee and board were satisfied that the groups business to each meeting, I agree the agenda with the chief risk officer model and allocated risk appetite remained appropriate.
and the company secretary to identify key issues impacting This is an important outcome given the number of change on the firm that may require the committees attention.
management programmes underway across the group.
At each meeting, the committee reviews and considers the On risk culture, the board and committee receive regular risk and compliance dashboards, which highlight changes in updates via a dashboard that sources data and qualitative key risks impacting the firm.
These dashboards are designed commentary relating to clients, colleagues, conduct risk to enable the committee to monitor and focus on ongoing or and investors.
The data for this dashboard is also reviewed emerging risks.
In addition, the committee receives reports annually by the internal audit team.
The committee uses and presentations on compliance, suitability and anti-money this dashboard to assess the firms risk culture to ensure it laundering matters, including any regulatory changes is aligned with the values of the firm.
The board has recently impacting the firm.
asked for a broader piece of work around culture, which will tie into the risk culture dashboard.
Finally, the committee conducts deep dive reviews on key risk areas such as internal investment management Our focus on cyber crime has accelerated during the year, as processes and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment the number of industry attacks continues to increase, which Process ILAAP.
reinforces the importance of strong cyber defences to protect client data and assets.
To that end, the firm completed its General Data Protection Regulation programme on time Committee effectiveness and ensured it met legislative requirements with training An evaluation of the committees effectiveness was provided to members of staff.
undertaken during the year as part of the internal board To ensure the firm is fully compliant with the ever-changing effectiveness review.
The review found that the committee regulatory landscape, we continue to engage effectively with operated well and ensured that the firms risks were regulators and industry bodies to ensure that our compliance sufficiently analysed during the year.
framework remains relevant for the firm.
In addition, the committee is satisfied that it has access Finally, the links between culture, risk and remuneration are to sufficient resource to enable it to carry out its duties fundamental.
The risk committee and chief risk officer have and continue to perform effectively.
provided input to the remuneration committee to ensure behaviours and the management of risk during the year Committee activity in 2018 were considered in remuneration committee decisions.
Further enhancements were made to the groups risk management framework in 2018, to ensure that it remains aligned to industry and regulatory standards.
The committee also reviewed the risk assessment on the firms various strategic initiatives.
In addition, the risk appetite framework continues to be refreshed to include additional measures in order to support the firms risk management activities.
Furthermore, the committee continues to review emerging risks to ensure the firms readiness for external volatility.
Relative to other UK financial services businesses, the firms potential exposure and disruption from the potential impact of Brexit is considered low given the firms geographical footprint, with no material dependencies on goods or services from other EU countries and a predominantly UK client base.
However, the firm has continued to develop appropriate contingency plans, which will be reviewed on a regular basis by the committee.
com 67 Group risk committee report continued Looking ahead to 2019 Committee activity in 2018 In reviewing the committees priorities for the coming year, consideration will be given to the following areas: The list below summarises the key issues that the committee considered at each of its meetings during Continued risk assessment of recent and upcoming the year in addition to standing reports from each regulatory changes control function.
Further evolution of the firms cyber security strategy Further enhancement of the risk management framework February 2018 for external and internal emerging risks, especially the Review of ICAAP operational risk factors impact of the UKs exit from the EU Review of risk register and emerging risks Change risk, including the integration of Speirs & Jeffrey Review of the banking committee report Continued assessment of the firms risk culture against Review of the recommendations from 2017 its core values audit cycle We are committed to the continuing development of Review of risk register and emerging risks our approach to risk management across the three lines of defence.
May 2018 In the first line, we expect to see delivery continue Approval of the annual Pillar 3 disclosures on a number of projects currently underway that should Review of the conflicts of interest policy strengthen further the sustainability of good client outcomes.
Annual approval of the firms risk appetite Also, we will continue to invest in additional resource for teams in the second line of defence.
Approval of ICAAP operational risk factors Review and consideration of the firms suitability Full details of our risk management framework are included programme for the year in the strategic report on pages 35 to 40.
Approval of the financial crime policy Review of banking committee report Terri Duhon Review of risk register and emerging risks Chairman of the group risk committee July 2018 20 February 2019 Approval of ILAAP and liquidity contingency plan Approval of reverse stress testing disclosures Approval of recovery and resolution plan September 2018 Review of the risk management policy Review of risk register and emerging risks Review of the banking committee report November 2018 Approval of risk management policy statement Review of the banking committee report Review and consideration of the firms suitability programme for the year with associated management actions Provide oversight of the firms AML processes and procedures Review of the firms risk culture dashboard Review of remuneration policy and associated risks with executive remuneration Review of risk register and emerging risks Approval of 2018 ICAAP and ILAAP stress testing proposals Approval of the remuneration policy 68 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018
