Corporate governance report Board and executive succession The nomination committee regularly reviews the composition of the board to ensure it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience for the business.
Such reviews help shape the firms succession plans and led to a number of changes to our board during the year.
After a rigorous recruitment process, we were delighted to welcome Terri Duhon and Colin Clark to the board in July and October 2018 respectively.
A comprehensive and tailored induction programme was arranged for them to introduce them to the business and provide industry context.
More detail of the induction programme is provided later in the report.
Also, as indicated in my report last year, the board recognises the importance of planning for the Mark Nicholls future and ensuring that succession plans are in place.
As Chairman a result, Terri Duhon was appointed chair of the group risk committee following Kathryn Matthews' retirement from the board in September 2018.
Kathryn had served nearly The board strongly believes that robust corporate nine years as a director.
governance makes a significant contribution to the long-term success of the firm and the achievement of In addition, the board discussed and approved the its strategy.
A good governance framework creates a solid recommendation from the nomination committee to begin foundation, which enables us to act in the best interests of to implement our executive succession plans.
Accordingly, our clients, shareholders and other stakeholders.
I am pleased the firm announced the appointment of Paul Stockton as to introduce the corporate governance report for 2018, which managing director of Rathbone Investment Management includes commentaries from me and the other committee in May 2018.
In November 2018, after careful assessment chairmen.
The report explains how we applied the principles of Paul's performance in this role by the nomination of good governance including the provisions of the 2016 UK committee it was agreed by the board that he would succeed 1 Corporate Governance Code 'the Code'.
Further details of Philip Howell as chief executive by the 2019 AGM.
Also, as the firms approach to corporate governance and how it announced in October 2018, Jennifer Mathias was appointed complies with the Code can be found later in the report.
as finance director and will be joining the firm on 1 April 2019.
Culture Board meetings The board places great importance on the firms culture, During the year, the board held seven scheduled meetings which has developed over many years and represents a key and met formally and informally on many occasions.
The firms client focus and integrity each scheduled board meeting, I meet with the non-executive are fundamental to achieving the best results for colleagues, directors to discuss any significant matters arising from the clients and shareholders over the long term.
board papers and the focus of any challenges.
We receive written reports on the development of the business and Following a fundamental review of our culture that was key performance indicators, together with detailed updates completed in 2017, the board has continued to monitor on the progress of agreed strategic initiatives.
Each board the firms purpose and values during the year.
The board meeting is attended for relevant items by members of the and the executive team devoted significant time and effort executive committee so that we can discuss their areas of to analysing the firms culture dashboard, which contains responsibility in greater depth.
data relating to clients, colleagues and other stakeholders.
My non-executive director colleagues and I have also continued Between board meetings, I maintain frequent contact with during the year to assess the firms culture through direct the executive team and, in particular, the chief executive engagement, both formal and informal, with investment and managing director of Rathbone Investment Management, managers and other employees throughout the business.
who keep me apprised of progress and key developments.
Philip, Paul and I also discuss how to bring issues to the board in the most effective way.
Our senior independent director, Jim Pettigrew, and I are in frequent contact and I discuss with him my thinking on significant board issues.
Jim and I are also in regular dialogue with our other non-executive director colleagues to ensure that any areas of concern are aired.
The Code can be found at frc.
uk 56 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Governance Remuneration policy Looking forward Our revised remuneration policy was approved at the This year saw a busy period for corporate governance reform 2018 annual general meeting AGM and I was pleased with the publication of the new Corporate Governance Code, that it received such strong support from our shareholders.
which will apply to the firm in 2019.
The board has monitored The directors remuneration report, which includes further these developments closely including the provision on detail on the application of the new policy, can be found workforce engagement, diversity and culture.
Due to the later in this section.
firms strong existing framework, we are well placed to implement these new provisions during 2019.
The board and its committees have already spent time assessing the Shareholders and stakeholders implications for the firm and over the coming months will consider the actions required to ensure compliance with Engagement and dialogue with shareholders continue to be very important to the board.
Personally, I have been pleased the new Code.
to meet with a number of our shareholders during the year The nomination committee continues to take into and found these meetings informative.
They allowed me to consideration the recommendations of the Davies report provide useful feedback to the board.
Sarah Gentleman, the and the McGregor-Smith review on board diversity.
As a chairman of the remuneration committee, has also been board, we acknowledge the importance of board diversity proactively involved in discussions with shareholders.
and, looking forward, particular regard will be given to female The firms AGM, which will take place on 9 May 2019, is a representation targets during the recruitment process.
The valuable opportunity for me and my fellow directors to meet firm will ensure that there are no barriers to women with shareholders, and for shareholders to raise questions succeeding at the highest levels.
I look forward to discussing our progress and the work of the board with shareholders at this meeting.
The board has other important stakeholders including our Mark Nicholls Chairman clients, employees, our regulators and the wider community.
Both I and my non-executive director colleagues use formal 20 February 2019 and informal opportunities to talk with members of staff across all offices and functions.
The board spent considerable time discussing the implications for the employees of both firms when considering the acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey.
We have set up a team visit programme for our non-executive directors.
We are also actively considering the provisions of the new Corporate Governance Code on 'workforce engagement'.
com 57 S e n i o r I e n v i t d u e c p e e x n E d f e e n i h t C D i r e c t o r Corporate governance report continued Governance at a glance Corporate governance framework Chairman Leads the board and sets the agenda for board discussions Ensures the board is effective Encourages the presentation of accurate, clear and timely information The board Promotes effective and constructive dialogue Chaired by Mark Nicholls between non-executive directors, executive Accountable to shareholders for the directors and the executive team long-term sustainable success of the Chairs the nomination committee, which considers group.
This is achieved through setting the composition of the board and succession plans out the strategy, monitoring objectives Evaluates the performance of the board, its and providing oversight of the committees and individual directors on an implementation of these objectives annualbasis by the management team.
Chief Executive Provides executive leadership and management to the business Responsible for the effectiveness of the executive committee Delivers on strategic objectives set by the board in line with the groups risk appetite Oversees the financial position of the group Maintains strong relationships with the chairman, Remuneration committee the board and key shareholders and stakeholders Read more Responsible for the directors on page 78 remuneration policy and oversight Senior Independent Director of the groups remuneration strategy.
Acts as a sounding board for the chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other directors if required Group risk committee Holds meetings with the non-executive directors Read more Provides oversight of the firms without the chairman present at least annually on page 66 risk appetite and framework.
Leads the board in the ongoing monitoring and annual performance evaluation of the chairman Audit committee Is available to meet with a range of major Read more Ensures there is confidence in shareholders to develop a balanced understanding on page 69 the integrity of internal financial of their issues and concerns and reports the outcome controls and corporate reporting.
of such meetings to the board Nomination committee Non-executive Directors Read more Responsible for recommending Provide constructive challenge to management on page 74 changes to the composition performance and strategy of the board and reviewing Contribute to the firms strategy succession planning.
Provide independent judgement to the board Group executive committee Read more Implements the agreed strategy on page 76 and oversees the day-to-day management of the group.
58 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 N o n - e x e n c a u m t i r i v a e h C D i r e c t o r s Governance Board activities in 2018 Strategy Operational Held strategy day with group executive team Reviewed an update on the General Data Protection to review and discuss progress Regulation GDPR implementation plan Reviewed and analysed strategic acquisition Reviewed an update on the IT transformation opportunities with considerable time spent programme including security enhancements on the Speirs & Jeffrey transaction following the review of cyber security Focused on delivery of organic growth initiatives Held discussions to improve controls and governance around MiFID II requirements Risk management Reviewed and approved Speirs & Jeffrey work streams and client data migration Monitored the firms principal risks and compliance programme Received detailed reports on significant regulatory risks and managements mitigating actions Strategy 30% Reviewed the implications of Brexit for the Risk management 15% organisation Performance review 15% Governance 20% Performance review Time spent Board activities Operational 20% Provided oversight of the financial performance on activity of the group discussed discussions Reviewed and approved capital requirements of thefirm Approved 2019 budget Governance Strategy Conducted an internal board evaluation 30% Risk management 15% Appointment of new board directors and Performance review 15% approval of chief executive transition Governance 20% Board activities Operational 20% Approved the firms Modern Slavery Act statement discussed Assessed and oversaw the firms culture and how it was reported and monitored Board structure 0-2 years Chairman Male 50% 12% 6 3-6 years Executive Female 33% 25% 2 Over 6 years Independent non-executive 17% 63% Board Board Board tenure composition diversity 0-2 years Chairman Male 50% 12% 6 3-6 years Executive Female 33% 25% 2 Over 6 years Independent non-executive 17% 63% Board Board Board tenure composition diversity rathbones.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued Our leadership Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Mark Nicholls Philip Howell Paul Stockton Jim Pettigrew Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director and Non-executive Director Managing Director of and Senior Independent Rathbone Investment Director Independent Management Appointment: 01 12 2010 Appointment: 01 12 2013 Appointment: 24 09 2008 Appointment: 06 03 2017 Age: 69 Age: 63 Age: 53 Age: 60 Board committees: Board committees: Board committees: Board committees: N, Re E E A, N, Re, Ri Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Mark is a lawyer and Philip was appointed in Paul was appointed group Jim was appointed as a corporate financier and 2013.
Following an early finance director in 2008 non-executive director was appointed as chairman military career, Philip spent and managing director at our 2017 AGM and at our 2011 AGM.
After over 30 years in the of Rathbone Investment was appointed as senior studying law at Cambridge, investment banking and Management in May 2018. independent director he qualified as a solicitor at private banking sectors, He qualified as a chartered in August 2017.
Linklaters before joining undertaking a range of accountant with He is a chartered accountant S G Warburg in 1976. leadership roles as well PriceWaterhouse in 1992. and was formerly president He became a director of as gaining considerable In 1999 he joined Old of ICAS and chief executive Warburgs in 1984 and head general management Mutual Plc as group officer of CMC Markets plc, of investment banking in experience.
He was financial controller, chief operating officer of 1994.
In 1996, he joined with Barclays for 24 years, becoming director of Ashmore Group plc and Royal Bank of Scotland which included leadership finance in 2001 and group finance director and became head of their assignments in Asia finance director of Gerrard of ICAP plc.
He was private equity group, leaving and South Africa and Limited eight months later.
previously a non-executive in 2003 to pursue a plural subsequently as head Two years after the sale of director of Aberdeen Asset career.
He is currently of strategy and corporate Gerrard in 2005 he left to Management plc, AON UK chairman of the West development focused work initially for Euroclear Ltd, Hermes Fund Managers Bromwich Building Society.
on the international and, subsequently, as a Ltd, Crest Nicholson Plc and private banking divisional finance director and Edinburgh Investment Current external non-executive divisions.
He continued of the Phoenix Group.
director roles his involvement in private He was formerly a nonWest Bromwich Building wealth management, firstly executive director of Current external non-executive Society as chief executive of Fortis the Financial Services director roles Private Banking and Compensation Scheme.
CYBG Plc subsequently of Current external non-executive RBC Europe Limited Williams fide Bro.
Board committees director roles Miton Group Plc Current external non-executive None A Audit committee director roles Scottish Financial E Executive committee None Enterprise N Nomination committee Re Remuneration committee Ri Group risk committee Bold in biographies indicates committee chairman 60 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Governance James Dean Sarah Gentleman Terri Duhon Colin Clark Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Independent Independent Independent Independent Appointment: 1 11 2013 Appointment: 21 01 2015 Appointment: 2 07 2018 Appointment: 24 10 2018 Age: 61 Age: 48 Age: 46 Age: 59 Board committees: Board committees: Board committees: Board committees: A, N, Re, Ri A, N, Re, Ri A, N, Re, Ri A, N, Re, Ri Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career James was appointed as Sarah was appointed as a Terri was appointed as Colin was appointed as a non-executive director non-executive director in a non-executive director a non-executive director in 2013 and is chair of our 2015 and is chair of our in July 2018 and chair in October 2018. audit committee.
of the risk committee He was at Mercury Asset She started her career as a in September 2018.
He is a chartered accountant Management and Merrill consultant at McKinsey & with over 30 years Terri is currently a nonLynch Investment Company and then worked experience working in executive director on the Managers for over 20 years for several years in the financial services.
He has board of Morgan Stanley and then was appointed a telecoms and digital sectors, worked in a variety of roles International where she non-executive director at latterly as chief financial at Ernst & Young over a chairs the risk committee Standard Life Investments officer of the LCR Telecom period of 14 years, including and is also chair of Morgan in 2004.
In 1999, she joined holding the position of Stanley Investment on non-executive director the internet bank Egg, the managing partner for the Management.
She is an roles with Alpha Strategic internet banking subsidiary UK Financial Services Audit Associate Fellow at The Said Plc, and with the Royal of Prudential, where she Practice for four years.
Business School at Oxford Marsden NHS Foundation was responsible for business University and on the MIT Trust.
Colin was appointed development and strategy.
Current external non-executive Corporation Visiting an executive director of In 2005, she joined Sanford director roles Committee.
Previously, Terri Standard Life Investments C. Bernstein & Co, the The Stafford Railway sat on the boards of CHAPS in 2010 and subsequently institutional research and Building Society Co, Operation Smile and appointed to the Standard trading arm of Alliance was a founding member Life Plc board as executive Bernstein as a banking of the Womens Leadership director with responsibility analyst covering the Group for the Princes Trust.
for the Global Client Group.
As an executive, Terri held He retired from this position a number of senior roles at in 2017.
Current external non-executive JP Morgan and ABN AMRO director roles Current external and nonbefore setting up her own None executive roles consultancy firm.
AXA Investment Managers SA Current external and nonexecutive director roles AXA Investment Managers Morgan Stanley UK International Morgan Stanley Investment Management Ltd rathbones.
com 61 Corporate governance report continued Focused on managements delivery of organic The role of the board growth initiatives The board provides the leadership and oversight to ensure Assessed and approved the firms regulatory returns the long-term success of the company for its stakeholders.
and annual budgets To achieve this goal, the board requires a diverse and talented Monitored and assessed the firms culture membership with a range of skills and experiences and the ability to challenge and support the executive management.
Considered the firms approach to a cyber attack The board has a strong non-executive team, which, currently, and subsequent management actions comprises former executives with financial, risk management Reviewed and implemented recommendations on and operational experience drawn from a variety of financial the board evaluation exercise institutions.
In addition, the broad experience of the nonReviewed and approved executive management executive directors allows them to understand the challenges succession plans, including the appointment of the and opportunities that face the firm and enables them to managing director for Rathbone Investment Management contribute to discussions and decisions.
and new chief executive Approved the appointment of new non-executive directors Board meetings Approved interim and full-year financial statements, Most scheduled board meetings are preceded by a board interim dividend and recommended final dividend dinner, which allows for broader discussions on particular topics.
The board dinners also provide an opportunity for Operations of the board the board to meet members of the management team or to The board has a rolling agenda, which ensures that key matters receive training.
In months where no formal board meeting are addressed.
The board held seven scheduled meetings is scheduled, an informal meeting of the non-executive during the year, a strategy day and a number of additional directors, the chairman and the chief executive is generally formal and informal meetings.
The chairman and the company held.
The non-executive directors also have informal meetings secretary manage board and committee meetings and ensure without the chairman or chief executive present.
The roles that the board and particularly the non-executive directors of the chairman, the chief executive, the senior independent receive appropriate and balanced information.
The company director and the non-executive directors have been clearly secretary manages the timely circulation of information to defined and agreed by the board to ensure a separation of the board.
All board papers are prepared by executives and power and authority.
clearly indicate any action required.
As part of the annual At every board meeting, the chief executive updates the board board evaluation process, board members provided input on the implementation of strategy and recent developments.
on the level and quality of the information that is provided.
The finance director reviews the financial performance and In addition, the company secretary ensures board procedures forecasts against plan and market expectations.
The chief risk are complied with and applicable rules are followed.
officer updates the board on key risk areas and any emerging The company secretary facilitates the induction process regulatory issues which impact the business.
The board is for new directors, assists with their professional development updated on shareholder sentiment and significant changes and advises the board on corporate governance matters and in the share register.
In addition, members of the executive on the rules and regulations that affect a UK-listed company.
committee attend meetings as required to present and The appointment or removal of the company secretary is a discuss progress in their individual businesses and functions.
Specific areas of focus and major decisions taken by the board during the year in line with its matters reserved mandate are Board attendance listed below: Meetings attended Reviewed the firms current shortand long-term Director eligible to attend strategic initiatives M P Nicholls 7 7 Scrutinised the benefits of and monitored progress on J W Dean 5 7 the acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey S F Gentleman 7 7 Oversight of the Speirs & Jeffrey integration programme J N Pettigrew 7 7 Approved the firms risk framework and appetite P L Howell 7 7 Reviewed the firms risk management and internal R P Stockton 7 7 controls systems 1 T L Duhon 3 3 Oversaw financial performance against plan and 2 market expectations C M Clark 1 1 Provided oversight of the firms investment management processes, including suitability Former director 3 Scrutinised the firms approach to and compliance K A Matthews 5 5 with regulatory investment standards 1.
Terri Duhon joined the board on 2 July 2018 Assessed the firms change management processes 2.
Colin Clark joined the board on 24 October 2018 and project delivery 3.
Kathryn Matthews stepped down as a director on 12 September 2018 62 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Governance Independence The board, on the recommendation of the nomination committee, considers that all of the non-executive directors are independent.
All board members are required to disclose any external positions or interests which might conflict with their directorship of Rathbones prior to their appointment so that any potential conflict can be properly assessed.
The board has regard to the fact that experienced non-executive directors in financial firms are a valuable resource and may sit on several boards.
Conflicts of interest can generally be managed by due process and common sense.
Board induction Our non-executive directors are offered a comprehensive Terri Duhon and tailored induction programme to introduce them to the Non-executive Director business, industry and regulatory context.
The programme is based on one-to-one meetings with the executive directors Board induction and executive committee members, the heads of group functions and the company secretary and covers the While I joined the Rathbones board with a lot of financial areas of business outlined below: expertise around markets, asset management and risk, I have had less direct exposure to the UK wealth Business review management sector.
Thus, the company secretary initially provided me with reading materials, which Strategic direction and priorities included analyst reports, recent market analysis on the Business strategy and market analysis sector, Rathbones investor reports and minutes of board Risk appetite, principal risks and risk and committee meetings.
This information was a great management framework overview for me of Rathbones and the broader industry.
Operations At the same time, meetings were held primarily with the executive team across different areas of the business.
Performance and market positioning The various induction meetings initially focused Review of financial and market performance on the big picture and slowly meetings became more detailed.
As a result, I'five requested a number of followRecent analyst and media coverage up meetings with the same person on the same topic.
Budget review In particular, I have spent a lot of time understanding Analysis of shareholder base and investor perception the structure of the risk and compliance team which Shareholder engagement included spending time in the Liverpool office.
Throughout the induction process, everyone at Regulatory environment Rathbones has been very open and has made Overview of the groups key compliance themselves available to enable me to understand the and regulatory policies inner workings of the firm, the people, processes and Recent changes in regulatory landscape and impact the culture.
My induction programme will continue of upcoming regulatory developments during 2019 and I dont expect these meetings and briefings to ever stop.
Hot topics and key priorities People, culture and values Discussion of key business principles and the firms culture Board development Key people and succession plans The firm is committed to the training and development Board procedures and governance framework of all staff to ensure professional standards are maintained and enhanced.
All directors are encouraged to update their Board structure, processes and relationships skills and any training needs are assessed as part of the board Board interaction with key business areas evaluation process.
The knowledge and familiarity of nonOverview of listed company obligations, reporting executive directors with the firm is enhanced by full access and governance framework to senior management and visits to teams in London and Directors duties and responsibilities offices across the country.
com 63 Corporate governance report continued The company secretary assists with the professional The review consisted of a focused questionnaire on development requirements of the board.
In addition, the board key topics such as: receives mandatory annual training on the following areas: board skills and dynamics CASS quality of the boards strategic and operational oversight SEC obligations quality of our risk assessment on major decisions ICAAP and ILAAP oversight of culture During the year, the board received presentations on the our succession planning impact of the GDPR, cyber security and regulatory investment the effectiveness of the board committees.
requirements including the associated change programmes Independent Audit Limited provided a report based on that will be required.
Committee members also receive regular responses to this questionnaire, which was discussed in updates on technical developments at scheduled meetings.
draft with the chairman and then presented in full to the board.
The chairman followed up with one-to-one meetings Governance of the company with each director.
In relation to compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Overall, the board effectiveness review was positive about Governance Code the Code, which applies to the firm, the composition of the board and the way both the board this report together with the directors report states the and the board committees operated.
Suggestions for position as at 20 February 2019.
The directors have considered improvement included: the contents and recommendations of the Code and confirm Clearer information on progress on strategic projects that throughout the year the company has applied the main and initiatives principles and complied with the provisions of the Code.
More information on succession and development below board level Board diversity The need for board reports to take a more holistic Diversity, including ethnic diversity, is a key factor when approach to culture looking beyond risk culture assessing the boards composition.
It ensures there is the to build a better picture of the whole organisation correct balance of skills, experience and expertise amongst The need for more focus on diversity not just gender non-executive directors to contribute to decision-making throughout the organisation and assess the performance and strategy of the company.
The board expects to conduct an internal review again The board has adopted a board diversity policy to ensure next year and an  evaluation in 2020. transparency and diversity in making appointments to the In addition to the board evaluation process, the senior board on the recommendation of the nomination committee.
This policy expresses our commitment to the principle independent director led a separate performance review in respect of the chairman which involved a review with the of non-discrimination and to the promotion of fair participation and equality of opportunity for all.
non-executive directors, excluding the chairman, and separate consultation with the chief executive.
The senior independent The gender balance of the board is also taken into director subsequently provided feedback to the chairman on consideration when recruiting a new non-executive director.
his appraisal, which confirmed his effectiveness.
This is reflected in the composition of the board, which will comprise three female and five male members during 2019.
Succession planning The board remains committed to improving diversity at all levels across the firm.
As such, it supports and is updated The nomination committee is responsible for both on diversity initiatives in place below the executive level.
executive and non-executive director succession planning and recommends new appointments to the board.
When making board appointments, the board seeks to ensure that Board and board committee evaluation there is a diverse range of skills, backgrounds and experience, Each year, the board undertakes an annual review of its including relevant industry experience.
In 2017, an external review was undertaken by is included in the nomination committee report.
an independent third party, Independent Audit Limited.
This involved their attendance at board meetings, one-to-one Board committees interviews with directors, executive committee members and the company secretary and a review of board and board Details of the work of the principal board committees are set committee papers and minutes.
The key points raised in the out in the separate reports for each committee, which follow 2017 review and associated actions by the board were this report.
disclosed in the last years report and accounts.
The 2018 board effectiveness review was devised Accountability internally, as permitted by the Code, and supported by Independent Audit Limited.
The board was keen for the The statement of directors responsibility for preparing the evaluation to highlight learnings from the past and build report and accounts is set out at the end of this governance on these for the future.
Within this, the directors have included a statement that the report and accounts present a fair, balanced and 64 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Governance understandable assessment of the groups position and The observations arising from this work form the basis for the prospects.
To help the board discharge its responsibilities annual internal audit opinion.
in this area, the board consulted the audit committee, Following these reviews, the board concluded that the firms which advised on the key considerations to comply with risk management processes were effective and there were best practice and the Codes requirements.
Following the no significant weaknesses or failings in the system of committees advice, the board considered and concluded that: internal controls.
the business model and strategy were clearly described the assessment of performance was balanced Relations with shareholders the language used was concise, with clear linkages The board is committed to proactive and constructive to different parts of the document engagement with the firms investors and is keen to an appropriate forward-looking orientation had develop its understanding of shareholder views.
Effective communication with investors and analysts The directors report on viability and the going concern regarding the firms strategy and performance is held through basis of accounting, which the directors have determined regular meetings and roadshows by the chief executive and to be appropriate, can be found in the strategic report, which finance director.
The board receives and discusses shareholder also describes the groups performance during the year.
and analyst feedback at each board meeting.
The chairman and non-executive directors are available to meet with investors at any time including at the AGM.
Risk management Investor relations activity in 2018 included the following: In accordance with the Code, the board is required to monitor the firms risk management and internal control systems on 2017 year-end results UK investor roadshow an ongoing basis and carry out a review of their effectiveness and analyst presentations and report on this review to shareholders.
Details of the Q1 trading update analyst call companys ongoing process for identifying, assessing and AGM all directors available for questions managing the principal risks faced by the firm are contained in the risk management section on pages 35 to 40, together 2017 interim results UK investor roadshow with details of those principal risks and their related mitigating and analyst presentations factors.
Whilst the board retains overall responsibility for the On the initiative of the chairman of the remuneration firms risk management and internal control systems, it has committee, shareholder consultation letters were delegated oversight to the audit and group risk committees.
issued to our 15 largest shareholders on our proposed The groups financial controls framework is designed to new remuneration policy and meetings held with those provide assurance that proper accounting records are interested to discuss the proposed changes.
We also adequately maintained and that financial information used engaged with Institutional Shareholder Services ISS within the business and for external publication is reliable and Institutional Voting Information Service IVIS of and free from material misstatement, thereby safeguarding the Investment Association and Pension & Investment the companys assets.
Research Consultants PIRC before the 2018 AGM.
Also, during 2019, the chairman of the remuneration committee The board receives regular reports from the chairman of contacted our top 15 shareholders to update them on the group risk committee and chief risk officer on the key the proposed adjustments to the 2018 EIP awards for risks facing the firm that impact on operational and financial our executive directors.
For more information, see objectives.
This assessment is completed together with pages 78 to 79 of the directors' remuneration report.
assurance that the level of risk retained is consistent with and is being managed in accordance with the boards risk During 2018, the key areas which the chief executive and appetite.
These reports include current and forward-looking finance director have discussed with investors included: assessments of capital and liquidity adequacy and a summary progress on strategic initiatives risk dashboard is presented.
Also, during the year, the board Speirs & Jeffrey transaction and share placing reviewed and approved the operational risk assessment process for the 2018 ICAAP document, which includes a industry trends including consolidation and the capital assessment of financial, conduct and operational risks.
increased use of technology upcoming changes to regulation including MiFID II, The board assesses the effectiveness of the firms internal the FCA Asset Management Review and the GDPR.
controls on an annual basis and a report is provided for consideration.
The report is considered one element of the overall assurance processes, and the board considers Shareholder meetings other sources that include reports emanating from first We welcome shareholders to our AGM in May each year.
line of defence and second line of defence assurance teams, At every AGM our shareholders are given an overview of including group compliance, anti-money laundering AML, the progress of the business and outlook for the year.
This as well as investment risk and information security.
is followed by the opportunity for shareholders to ask A one-year risk-based approach drives internal audit questions about the resolutions before the meeting and coverage, and, over the course of the year, review work about the business more generally.
We look forward to by the function covers all material controls across the meeting shareholders and providing a further business firm including compliance, operations and finance.
update at our 2019 AGM in May this year.
