Nominations Committee NomCo The Committee ensures that the Board has, and maintains, the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and diversity to enable the Board to discharge its duties effectively.
Gavin Tipper Chair of the Nominations Committee Appointed Resigned to from Nominations Nominations Meetings Tenure Other Committee Committee attended Experience on Board committees Greg Clarke 25 10 2011 15 12 2017 2 2 F P E U 7 None Gavin Tipper 30 07 2014 8 8 U F S 7 R Michael Farrow 15 12 2017 6 6 7 F P E U R A Sue Ford 30 01 2014 8 8 U F 5 A Robert Orr 25 01 2018 24 7 2018 4 4 3 P E U R I Nominations Committee events during the year: Reviewed and selected a shortlist of candidates for a new independent Nonexecutive Director.
October 2017 Interviewed the shortlisted candidates and recommendation made to the Board.
Reviewed a list of agencies to assist in the search for a new Chairman.
Robert Orr joins NomCo to assist with the search for a new Chairman.
January 2018 Appointment of a search agency following meetings with those shortlisted.
Specification for the new Chairman drawn up.
April 2018 Consideration of long list of external candidates.
Interviews held with shortlisted candidates.
June 2018 July 2018 Consideration of all candidates and recommendation of internal candidate to the Board.
Recommendation of Committee changes following the appointment of the Chairman.
Key to committees: Key to experience: F Finance A Audit and Risk Committee P Property C Corporate Social Responsibility Committee E Europe I Investment Committee U UK listed companies R Remuneration Committee S SA listed companies RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 83 Directors report Governance Nominations Committee NomCo continued The search process was as follows: Committee composition Appointment of new Chairman Led by the Chairman, the Board is collectively Further to the announcement in December responsible for the long term success of the 2017 that Greg Clarke would be stepping January 2018 Company.
It is therefore appropriate for the down as Chairman, a number of recruitment Recruitment agency Russell Reynolds chosen Nominations Committee, which is responsible agencies were identified as candidates to to assist in search for the new Chairman and for the composition of the Board, to be led assist in the searchfor his replacement.
specification drawn up by the Chairman.
Greg Clarke chaired the Three agencies made presentations to the Committee until December 2017, when NomCo in January 2018, which resulted in he announced that he would be stepping theappointment of Russell Reynolds, who down from the Board.
Michael Farrow, the hadassisted in the appointment of Robert Orr Companys Senior Independent Director, in 2015.
April 2018 assumed the Chair in order to oversee In establishing the specification for the new the search for a new Chairman, and on Consideration of a diverse pool of 80 external Chairman, the NomCo considered the key appointment as Chairman of the Board in candidates 57 men and 23 women challenges and opportunities that would face 12 potential candidates identified, full written July 2018, Gavin Tipper assumed the Chair the Company over the next five years and reports reviewed and meetings held with of the Nominations Committee.
The Chair is recommendations from the CEO and the preferred individuals assisted by two independent Directors and all management team.
It was important that an of the members have significant experience appointee would: asdirectors of listed companies, and are fit the culture of the Board: aware of the skills required to successfully manage a dual listed company with a be familiar with the South African investor June 2018 diversified portfolio.
universe: have a good balance between collegiate Shortlist of three external and one internal Board composition diplomacy and strength of character: candidate drawn up.
Further meetings held, The roles and responsibilities of the NomCo including meetings with the CEO have the appropriate technical knowledge are set out in its terms of reference.
The and corporate governance skills: Committees primary objective is to ensure have the necessary skills, experience and that the Board and its committees have, and competence to lead the Company: and maintain, the appropriate balance of skills, have an appropriate commercial track experience, independence and diversity July 2018 record, sector experience and previous to enable the Board to discharge its duties Internal candidate, Gavin Tipper, appointed experience asa Chairman.
The composition of the RDI Board, although not in line with the Code, New appointments provide opportunities to works well, with no group of individuals increase Board diversity and Russell Reynolds dominating decision making.
Shareholders was asked to select candidates from as wide interests are safeguarded by four a pool of people as possible.
A shortlist independent nonexecutives, and two further was drawn up of three potential external nonexecutives representing the largest candidates and one internal candidate, shareholder, Redefine Properties Limited.
and meetings were held to discuss the candidates, including meetings with the CEO.
This year the NomCo sought to address After extensive consideration, taking into independence and diversity, through account the level of capital recycling, portfolio the appointment of Elizabeth Peace, and repositioning and the need to continue this considered succession planning following momentum through a period of potential the resignation of Greg Clarke as Chairman.
macroeconomic volatility, it was considered Before any search and appointment was by the Board that GavinTippers experience, undertaken the composition of the Board is knowledge and skill set best met the reviewed, and the balance of skills, knowledge Companys requirements.
and experience evaluated, and the culture of the Board considered.
An analysis of the composition of the Board and further details on succession planning can be found on pages 78 and 86.
84 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 The Board has agreed that any Director may, Committee review Directors induction if necessary in the furtherance of their duties, Following the appointment of Gavin Tipper The CEO provides an induction session which take independent professional advice at the as Chairman of the Board, the composition covers the Groups background, its historical Companys expense, subject to having first of the Board committees was reviewed.
activities, its key businesses and risks, its notified the Company Secretary of their intent Inso doing, the NomCo assessed the skills, funding structure, strategy, propertydetails to take such advice.
Any payments by the experience, knowledge and tenure of each of and latest financial information.
The Company Company for such advice are subject to any the Directors, before recommending changes Secretary provides a list of mattersreserved restrictions under company law.
for the Board, the corporate calendar and an overview of the Directors obligations for The Company maintains liability insurance Appointment of Elizabeth Peace an Isle of Man company with a dual listing.
which covers directors and officers of the The process underlying the appointment of Anyfurther information is provided according Company and any subsidiary companies in Elizabeth Peace is set out on page 71 of the to the particular needs of each Director.
Meetings with key advisers are set up, as Conflict of interest policy required, and tours of relevant properties Appointment terms On appointment, and before each Board areundertaken to provide a full overview All new Nonexecutive Directors are provided meeting thereafter, all Directors are asked ofthe Companys activities.
with a letter of appointment detailing the to disclose any directorships or relevant Directors are also provided with the results terms of their appointment and their expected shareholdings.
Directors may not, without ofthe most recent annual Board evaluation.
time commitment to the role.
On signing, the consent of the Board, accept any other they confirm that there are no conflicts appointments as a Nonexecutive Director, Directors training of interest inherent in their appointment.
or enter into any arrangements which may As part of the Board evaluation, each of Nonexecutive Directors are not appointed for reasonably be expected to lead to a conflict the Directors were assessed by the other a specified term, but until the Director is either of interest.
Prior to accepting any new members of the Board.
The Chairman i not re-appointed following retirement, appointments, they are also required to discussed the results with each Director, ii removed or vacates office, iii resigns confirm that the appointments will not impact any training and development needs were or does not offer himself for re-election, on their ability to meet their time commitment identified, and Directors were encouraged 1 or iv terminates his appointment on three as a director of RDI.
toupdate their skills and knowledge.
If a conflict of interest arises, the Director Advisers may be asked to present at All Directors are expected to attend the may be asked to leave the meeting whilst meetings in order to provide Directors with quarterly Board meetings, quarterly update thematter is discussed, or the matter may detailed information on the Company and calls, meetings of any committees of which bereviewed by an independent committee its regulatory environment.
Opportunities 2 they are a member, and shareholder meetings oftheBoard.
are also provided for the Directors to meet as required.
Nonexecutive Directors are 1 During the year Robert Orr became Chairman of and discuss projects with members of expected to make themselves available for Tritax EuroBox plc, Robert confirmed before the senior management and property tours are a minimum of eight days per year in the appointment that the role would not interfere or conflict with his RDI directorship.
undertaken to enable Directors to view the discharge of their duties.
2 When considering the appointment of a new Companys assets and hold discussions with Chairman of the Board, Gavin Tipper was not party the responsible asset managers.
to the final discussion and decision.
At each Board meeting Directors are updated on regulatory issues or changes in legislation and corporate governance matters.
During this year, updates were provided on, inter alia, insurance, health and safety, sustainability, GDPR, the gender pay gap and the 2018 Corporate Governance Code.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 85 Directors report Governance Nominations Committee NomCo continued Board tenure and succession planning Executives Mike Watters was CEO of the external management company from 2008 and, following the internalisation of management, became CEO of Redefine International the Companys former name in 2013.
The retirement or departure of such a long-standing employee is a significant risk to the Company and the Nominations Committee has overseen the development of the Deputy CEO, Stephen Oakenfull.
This has involved mentoring, external management development programmes and increased external networking.
A succession plan has been drawn up to ensure that there are internal candidates earmarked to replace the CFO and the Property Director.
Although all of the executives are currently male, the senior management layer is 50% female and provides a strong, gender diverse pipeline.
Asvacancies arise consideration will be given to both external and internal candidates.
Non-executives Non-executive Tenure Max tenure Experience Succession plan 7 years 2018 Greg joined the Board in 2011, and retired in July 2018.
Greg Clarke F P E U BA Hons 7 years 2020 Due to step down by August 2020.
SID, and member of all Code Committees.
Michael Farrow F P E U As Chair of the RemCo he has overseen the implementation and revision of FCIS MSc theremuneration policy.
7 years 2020 Appointed Chairman of the Board in July 2018.
His tenure will be extended Gavin Tipper F U S beyond nine years to stagger the departure of the longstanding members MBA CA BCom fromthe Board.
BAcc 5 years 2022 It is proposed that an additional independent Director with financial expertise Sue Ford F U be sought to assist Sue and to act as her future successor.
ACA BSc Robert Orr 3 years 2024 His property knowledge and experience has proved invaluable when assessing P E U potential property sales or acquisitions.
MRICS 1 year 2026 Elizabeths appointment brought a wealth of property experience and Elizabeth Peace P U improved independence and diversity on the Board.
BA Hons Marc Wainer 7 years n a Represent Redefine Properties Limited, the Companys largest shareholder.
F P E U S Bernie Nackan is to retire from the Board and will not be seeking reelection 4 years n a S Bernie Nackan atthe AGM in January.
A replacement will be announced in duecourse.
Greg Clarke became Chairman of the Board From September 2018, RDI was classed as The new appointments will provide an in 2011, following the reverse takeover of a smaller company in accordance with the opportunity to improve diversity, whilst Wichford P. L. C. by Redefine International plc.
2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and is maintaining the requisite skills necessary At the same time, Gavin Tipper and Michael thus only required to have two independent for the Board and its committees to Farrow joined the Board as independent directors on the Board.
As noted, a director Nonexecutive Directors.
With the tenure September 2018, the Board is compliant with with financial experience will be sought to of independent nonexecutives limited to the Code, and no additional independent supplement the level of financial expertise nine years, the Board was mindful of the directors are necessary.
on the Board and the Audit and Risk knowledge and experience which would be Committee.
MichaelFarrow has chaired the However, from 1 September 2019, RDI will lost through the departure of these three  since 2013 and his abide by the 2018 Corporate Governance nonexecutives and therefore planned replacement will need to have experience of Code, the small company exemption will to stagger their replacement.
Due to the remuneration matters, which are becoming no longer apply and the Board will again pressure of external commitments, Greg increasingly complex.
require a balance of independent and Clarke stepped down in 2018.
In order to intends to step down during 2020 and it is comply with the Code in 2020, and following intended that Gavin Tipper Chair will lead the intended departure of Michael Farrow, the Board for an extended period, after which three additional independent directors will a replacement will be sought.
Planning for these directors will be initiated in the coming year.
86 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Board evaluation action plan 2017 2018 actions 2019 action plan Long term strategic Strategy days to be Strategy was discussed Strategy is to be addressed again at the January 2019 Board meeting and a separate decision making planned in depth at the July Board strategy day has been scheduled for July 2019. meeting Thorough risk analysis Full details of the Audit A risk review and the risk The Audit and Risk Committee will continue to improve its risk monitoring and and Risk Committees risk matrix were presented reporting to the Board.
analysis to be presented to to the Board every six the Board half yearly months.
The Board identified an improvement in this area Shareholders and The CSR Committee was Reporting to the CSR Shareholder and stakeholder engagement to be monitored, and stakeholder groups stakeholders developing momentum Committee improved to continue to be considered in the Boards decisionmaking process.
Employee forum during the year, with set up and a Nonexecutive Director appointed as an employee representative.
a greater focus on shareholders and stakeholders, and the adoption of a stakeholder engagement policy Board composition Composition will continue Independence and gender Independence and diversity require further improvement which will be addressed to be reviewed diversity were improved bythe NomCo this year.
during the year Succession planning Concerns around A succession plan was Succession planning for the nonexecutives and the development of the deputy CEO executive succession developed for the will continue.
Further details can be found on the page opposite.
The NomCo led and recommended the Chairmans replacement Michael Farrow and Gavin Tipper have both Board evaluation Directors re-election been on the Board for seven years and were A Board evaluation is undertaken each All of the Directors, except Bernie Nackan, evaluated by the rest of the Board as being year, with an external evaluation every third will be standing for reelection at the AGM either good, or outstanding, directors, and it year.
The 2017 and 2018 evaluations were on 24January 2019.
Bernie Nackan will was considered that they devoted sufficient performed using an online questionnaire be retiring from the Redefine Properties time to their roles as directors.
which allowed Directors to anonymously Limited board and will therefore be retiring evaluate the performance of the Chairman, as their representative on the RDI Board.
We All Directors are recommended for reelection individual Board members, Board operations would like to thank Bernie for his positive at the AGM on 24 January 2019. and the Board Committees.
contribution over the past four years.
Their biographical details can be found on The Boards main strengths identified by the The Chairman is of the view that each of pages 76 and 77 and are contained in the evaluation were: the other Directors continue to be effective Notice ofMeeting.
membersof the Board, and that they the diversity of expertise: collectively hold the requisite range of skills Gavin Tipper the good mix of skills and experience: toenable the Board to operate successfully.
Chair of the Nominations Committee the thorough and constructive discussions: Itis considered that the Directors function 25 October 2018 and welltogether as a team.
the agility of the Board and its ability The interests of each independent Director to respond rapidly to situations, are monitored, taking into account the whererequired.
requirements of the Code, to ensure that theirindependence is not compromised.
The main concerns related to Board composition, succession and strategy.
The Chairman is satisfied that Michael Farrow, Inresponse to the evaluation, an action Sue Ford, Robert Orr and Elizabeth Peace planwas developed and is set out in the remain independent in both character and tableabove.
judgement and comply with the independence criteria of the Code.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 87
