Governance Audit committee report Audit committee chairmans annual statement The audit committees key role is to ensure there is confidence in the integrity of our processes and procedures as they relate to internal financial controls and corporate reporting.
The board relies on the committee to review financial reporting and to appoint and oversee the work of the internal and external auditors.
During 2018, the committee has continued to provide independent scrutiny of the processes in place to monitor the companys financial and non-financial reporting.
This included oversight of the viability statement process and ensuring that this report and accounts meets the criteria for fair, balanced and understandable reporting.
We have also overseen the firms systems of internal controls management.
The committee has considered a wide range of topics with a focus on the following areas: Membership and attendance Analysis of the firms financial reporting with particular Meetings attended consideration of accounting judgments made during Director eligible to attend the preparation of the financial statements J W Dean chairman 6 7 Review of the firms client assets sourcebook CASS 1 C M Clark 1 1 audit and submissions 2 T L Duhon 3 3 Impact of the reporting standards relating to IFRS 15 S F Gentleman 7 7 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases J N Pettigrew 6 7 Audit tender process Former director 3 Committee meetings K A Matthews 5 5 1.
Colin Clark joined the committee on 24 October 2018 Our current members are the independent non-executive 2.
Terri Duhon joined the committee on 2 July 2018 directors who met on seven occasions in 2018 2017: six.
Kathryn Matthews retired from the committee on 12 September 2018 The board is satisfied that at least one member of the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Roles and responsibilities I am a chartered accountant as is Jim Pettigrew, while the other committee members have extensive experience of The key activities of the committee are as follows: financial matters and of the financial services industry.
Provide oversight of the firms financial performance In addition to the members of the committee, standing and reporting, announcement of results and significant judgements areas invitations are extended to the chairman, executive directors, chief risk officer, head of internal audit, financial controller, Review the firms whistleblowing arrangements and and the external audit partner and manager.
Other executives ensure appropriate and independent investigations and external advisers are invited to attend the committee on matters from time-to-time as required to present and advise on Review the firms internal controls and effectiveness reports commissioned.
of the internal audit function During the year, I have regular meetings with the finance Oversee the appointment, performance and director, head of internal audit and the external audit partner remuneration of the external auditor, including to discuss key audit-related topics ahead of each meeting.
the provision of non-audit services to the firm The committee has an agreed annual standing agenda to Full terms of reference for the committee are reviewed ensure key areas are covered during the year, which it is annually and are available on the companys website.
required to address under its terms of reference.
Prior to each meeting, I agree the agenda with the finance director and the company secretary.
com 69 Audit committee report continued Committee effectiveness The annual review of the effectiveness of the committee was carried out internally during the year.
The committee members and executive directors were invited to respond to questions on the content, management, quality and focus of discussion during meetings.
I am pleased that their responses indicated that the committee is performing well with no areas of concern.
July 2018 Committee activity in 2018 Approval of half-year report for 2018 Below is a summary of the key issues that the committee Assessment of the firms statement of going concern considered at each of its meetings during the year.
Review of audit fees for 2018 January 2018 External auditors half-year review Review of the report and accounts Review and approval of representation letter Review of key judgements for the annual report Review of external auditors letter of independence Assessment of going concern and the viability statement Proposed audit plan for the year end Annual review of audit fees Annual review of audit and non-audit fee policy Review of 2017 internal audit plan and 2018 internal Approval of recommendation of selection committee audit cycle on external audit appointment for 2019 Request for approval of 2018 non-audit services Review of internal audit plan for 2018 and completed assessments across the firm February 2018 Annual review of the whistleblowing reports for 2017 Approval of the report and accounts Annual review of the whistleblowing policy Review the impact of IFRS 15 Approval of committees terms of reference Assessment of the report and accounts being fair, balanced and understandable October 2018 Review of the firms distributable reserves and Review and approval of the Q3 interim dividend policy for 2017 management statement Year-end external audit report and audit opinion Review of internal audit plan for 2018 and completed assessments across the firm Review and approval of representation letter Review of planning of internal audit plan for 2018 Review of external auditors letter of independence Approval of the firms non-audit service policy April 2018 Review and approval of the firms CASS submission December 2018 Review of key judgements and provisioning for May 2018 the year end Review of audit tender process Review of audit and non-audit fees for the year Review and approval of the Q1 interim management Assessment of reporting standard changes relating statement to IFRS 9, 15 and 16 Review and approval of the external auditors letter Review of internal audit plan for 2018 and approval of engagement and audit fee of the 2019 internal audit plan Review of internal audit plan for 2018 and completed assessments across the firm Approval of the internal audit charter Assessment of conformity with International Literacy Association standards and the financial services code 70 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Governance Provisions and contingent liabilities Financial reporting The committee discussed provisions totalling 11.8 million, which have been summarised in note 26 to the financial Accounting judgements statements.
The main areas of provisions relate to the Speirs & As part of the committees role of monitoring the integrity Jeffrey acquisition, deferred payment for acquired business of the firms financial information contained in the interim and property dilapidation liabilities.
and annual financial statements, a review of key accounting judgements and policies that were adopted by management Brexit was conducted and assessed.
Following discussion with management and the external auditors, the committee Complementing the board's consideration of the potential impact of Brexit on our business, the committee considered concluded that these judgements were appropriate and proportionate for the firm.
Details of these key significant the implications of Brexit uncertainties on those accounting judgements that depend on assessments of the future judgements can be found in note 3 of the financial statements.
economic environment and the group's future prospects, going concern and viability.
This included an assessment Fair, balanced and understandable statement of the appropriateness of sensitivity analysis undertaken The committee considered whether the interim statement for known adverse scenarios and the adequacy of disclosures and the report and accounts were fair, balanced and in the report and accounts.
understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the firms performance, business Acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey model and strategy.
The committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements in conjunction with the We considered the judgement and estimates made by narrative sections of the reports to ensure that there was management in accounting for the acquisition of Speirs & consistency in the information reported, that appropriate Jeffrey.
In particular, we reviewed the estimated valuation and weight had been given to both positive and negative aspects accounting treatment of the deferred elements of consideration of business performance and that key messages had been payable for the business, the identification and valuation of the presented coherently.
The committee concluded that, taken client relationships and other intangibles acquired and the as a whole, the interim statement and the report and accounts valuation of goodwill arising from the acquisition.
were fair, balanced and understandable.
New accounting standards Viability and going concern During the year, the committee reviewed two new accounting standards that will be implemented over the next two years The committee considered the requirements contained in the Code regarding the companys viability statement, including and will impact on the financial statements as they will have a number of transitional arrangements.
The committee looked the proposed three-year assessment period.
After significant discussion, and having considered the firms current position at the following: and impact of potential risks, the committee concluded that the three-year assessment period continued to be appropriate i IFRS 15 and recommended the draft viability statement as set out A review was conducted on the impact of this standard and on page 40 to the board for approval.
The committee also the manner in which the firm is required to capitalise earn reviewed the going concern disclosure as set out on page 93 out payments.
Following an extensive review of our contracts, and concluded that the firm had adequate resources to it was determined that the net impact of this standard would continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future result in a 8 million adjustment to the opening equity and confirmed to the board that it was appropriate for the position and is disclosed in the financial statements.
firms financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
ii IFRS 16 A review of the firms future lease payments was conducted The carrying value of assets during the year to establish the potential financial liability We reviewed the methodology for valuing assets where that will need to be recognised on the balance sheet.
The firms a significant amount of judgement is required, including most significant property lease contracts were examined and intangible assets, particularly goodwill and client relationships.
may lead to the firm being required to hold additional capital from the inception of the standard.
The valuation of defined benefit pension obligations For further information, please refer to note 1.3 to the We reviewed the key assumptions supporting the valuation financial statements.
of defined benefit pension obligations, particularly salary increases, investment returns, inflation and the discount Audit tender process rate, which are disclosed in note 28 to the financial statements.
As reported in last years committee report, the last audit We reviewed the professional advice taken by the company services tender process took place in 2009, which led to t and discussed the assumptions used by us and by other he appointment of KPMG LLP, and under the new EU audit companies with the external auditors.
We satisfied ourselves regulations, the firm was required to initiate another process.
that the assumptions used were reasonable.
Also, this timing coincided with the end of tenure of the lead engagement partner who, having been the lead engagement partner for five years, in accordance with audit regulations, is required to rotate off the firms account in 2019. rathbones.
com 71 Audit committee report continued The committee initiated an audit tender process, which it Due diligence including reviewing Audit Quality Review delegated to a sub-committee composed of the following: team Inspection reports published by the FRC, references and media searches Chairman of the audit committee The sub-committee produced a scorecard to appraise Chairman of the remuneration committee each firm, which was presented to the audit committee for Finance Director consideration.
In summary, the committee concluded that Head of Internal Audit Deloitte LLP had a strong team proposition, good knowledge Group Financial Controller of the business' and sectors key risks, had performed well on non-audit engagements during the past 24 months The process was designed to be transparent, effective and and through certain other actions demonstrated their efficient in order to provide participating firms an equal commitment to providing a high-quality focused audit.
opportunity to tender for the services.
Prior to the tender, Accordingly, the board agreed to recommend to shareholders the participating firms had been given equal opportunity the appointment of Deloitte at the 2019 AGM.
The committee to meet with key members of staff to ensure they had a will oversee the implementation of a detailed transition plan good understanding of the business.
and an update will be provided in next years report.
The main elements of planning for the tender began in May 2018 when the proposed process was approved by the Internal audit committee.
The sub-committee met regularly and received and commented on the main materials prior to these being Internal audit plan issued to the participating firms.
The 2018 internal audit plan was approved by the committee As an initial step, a detailed desktop review process was ahead of the start of the year with a greater focus on thematic undertaken, which considered the credentials of six firms work.
The internal audit plan is subject to an annual risk-based against a range of criteria, including an assessment of the appraisal.
In setting audit scope, the internal audit function depth of knowledge and expertise in the investment will take into account business strategy and form an management industry, the firms geographical reach, independent view of whether the key risks to the organisation analysis of the firms current and recent audit clients in have been identified, including emerging and systematic risks, our sector, review of the Financial Reporting Council's and assess how effectively these risks are being managed.
The FRC June 2017 Audit Quality Inspectionreports on each status of scheduled work and the follow up of agreed actions firm and consideration of our experience of the firms in recent arising from reviews is reviewed at each meeting to ensure engagements audit and non-audit.
Following the desktop that agreed recommendations are acted upon promptly review, the sub-committee agreed thatthree firms should and regularly reported to the committee.
be issued with a request for proposal RFP.
At each meeting, the committee reviewed the internal audit In line with FRC guidance the evaluation criteria for the process reports presented by the head of internal audit and monitored were agreed as: progress against the 2018 plan.
Reporting to the committee focuses on any significant issues identified in the audits and Audit quality highlights any overdue items.
A number of improvements Measured by reference to recent FRC audit quality reports to certain processes and controls were implemented in response to the recommendations put forward.
Independence and management of potential conflicts Team competence Internal audit function Experience and expertise of the team The internal audit function is an independent, objective assurance activity designed to add value and improve the Commitment and proactivity organisations operations by bringing a systematic, disciplined Enthusiasm and commitment of the proposed audit team approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
The internal Service approach audit function is the third line of defence within the controls Organisational and cultural fit of each firm and framework, providing independent assurance to both senior the proposed audit team with our business management and the audit committee, and reporting to the Appropriate audit approach and issue resolution chairman of the audit committee.
Deloitte LLP were engaged processes for our business on 1 July 2015 as a co-source partner supplementing the in-house team.
Deloittes significant resource and knowledge Communication, messages and style base means they are able to provide specialist assistance In order to evaluate each of the firms against the criteria, the supporting the annual internal audit planning process, as well sub-committee oversaw a number of activities including: as technical input into individual audit reviews.
A combined assurance map has been developed, linking significant risks Analysis of the RFP responses to first line controls, second line monitoring and oversight Presentations to the sub-committee and internal audit work.
Assessment of performance on non-audit services provided in the preceding 24 months 72 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Governance The committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal Non-audit fees, excluding services required by national audit function during the year to assess whether the function legislation, payable to the auditor in 2018 were 179,000. continued to meet key stakeholder objectives.
The outcome of This represents 45% of the three-year average statutory this review indicated that the internal audit function continued audit fee of 387,000.
Other non-audit work undertaken to be effective, operating in line with professional standards and by the auditor in 2018 was largely in relation to the corporate is well supported by Deloitte.
Following the proposed change in transaction, pensions advisory work and the annual ISAE3402 external auditor in 2019, the firm has initiated a tender process internal controls report.
We recognise that, given KPMGs for the internal audit co-source relationship.
An update will be knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in provided in next years committee report.
using the external auditor to provide certain non-audit services and we are satisfied that their independence As well as meetings with management, I have regular has not been impaired by providing these services.
meetings on a one-to-one basis with the head of internal audit before audit committee meetings to ensure that any Prior to undertaking any non-audit service, KPMG LLP also concerns can be raised in confidence.
completes its own independence confirmation processes, which are approved by the engagement partner.
To provide the committee with oversight in this area, it submits sixExternal audit monthly reports on the non-audit services it has provided.
Following a formal assessment of the external auditors Audit work 2018 independence and objectivity, the committee concluded KPMG present their audit plan to the committee for review that KPMG continued to be independent and objective.
The committee reviewed and challenged reports from KPMG, which outlined their risk assessments and audit We agreed the external auditors fees which are shown plans for 2018 including their proposed materiality level for in note 8 to the financial statements and reviewed the the performance of the annual audit, the status of their audit audit engagement letter.
We also had discussions with the work and issues arising from it.
Particular focus was given external auditor with no management present to provide to their testing of internal controls, their work on the key an opportunity for any concerns to be raised and discussed.
judgement areas and possible audit adjustments.
We can confirm that there are no such material items remaining Whistleblowing policy unadjusted in the financial statements.
We annually review the firms whistleblowing policy, approve External audit effectiveness and appointment any changes to the document and receive details of any reports made.
We place great importance on the quality, effectiveness and independence of the external audit process.
In order to review As well as meetings with management, I have regular the external audit process, including the performance of the meetings on a one-to-one basis with the head of internal external auditors, feedback is gathered from both committee audit before audit committee meetings to ensure that any members and management.
This process was undertaken concerns can be raised in confidence.
We also reviewed the annual FRC Audit Quality Inspection report prepared on our external auditor Overview of priorities for 2019 and discussed this report with the audit partner.
There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the firms As well as considering the standing items of business, the choice of external auditor.
committee will also focus on the following areas during 2019: Assessment and implementation of new Auditor independence and non-audit services accounting standards We discussed the independence of the external auditor, Transition of external audit work from KPMG to Deloitte the nature of non-audit services supplied by them and non-audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
As a result of In light of its work, the committee was content with the the EU Audit Directive and Audit Regulations, the non-audit effectiveness of the groups processes governing financial services policy was updated and approved.
The revised policy and regulatory reporting and controls, its ethical standards includes prohibited services and sets a fee guide that aims to and its relationships with regulators.
achieve a cap of 70% of the statutory audit fee in any year by 2019.
The committees prior approval is only required where Approval the fee for an individual non-audit service is expected to exceed 50,000 and it is on the list of pre-approved services.
This report, in its entirety, has been approved by the committee and the board of directors and signed on its behalf by: James Dean Chairman of the audit committee 20 February 2019 rathbones.
