Directors report Governance Board composition Independence During the financial year in review, RDI was part of the FTSE 250 and, as such, half the Board should compriseindependent directors.
TheRDIBoard, excluding the Chairman, comprises four executives, four independent Non-executive Directors andtwo Non-executive Directors representing the major shareholder Redefine Properties Limited.
The Board sought to address independence during 2018 with the appointment of Elizabeth Peace, when the level of independence rose from 40% to 45%.
It has since reverted to 40% following thedeparture of Greg Clarke inJuly 2018.
Chairman Gavin Tipper F U S Chairman of the Board since July 2018 Responsible for leadership and governance of the Board.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, whoruns the Board, and the CEO, who runs the business.
40% Executive Directors Daytoday management of the Company Mike Watters Stephen Oakenfull Adrian Horsburgh Donald Grant CEO Deputy CEO Property Director CFO F P E U S F P E U P E U F U 40% Independent Non-executive Directors To constructively challenge the executives and represent the interests of the shareholders Michael Farrow Elizabeth Peace Robert Orr Sue Ford Senior Independent Director P U P E U F U F P E U 20% Independent Non-executive Directors Representing the Companys largest shareholder Redefine Properties Limited Marc Wainer Bernie Nackan F P E U S S F P E U S Key to skills: Finance Property Europe UK listed companies SA listed companies 78 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Board skills Board diversity Board culture The Board collectively has a strong knowledge The results of the Board evaluation showed The Boardroom culture is good natured base of UK and European property, finance that diversity was considered to be one of and constructive and relationships between and capital market transactions on both the the Boards strengths.
The Board comprises Executives and Nonexecutive Directors are UK and SA exchanges.
The experience and directors originating from the UK, Jersey, SA good, although Nonexecutive Directors are qualifications of the Directors are outlined and NZ.
The majority, but not all, of Directors not afraid to challenge Executives during below and show that the required skill sets are have had a university education and hold meetings, often leading to robust debates.
adequately covered by the current members a professional qualification.
The age of TheChairman and CEO set a tone of openness of the Board.
The skill and experience of the Board members ranges from 39 to 74, with and thoroughness which is upheld by the independent nonexecutives matches those the average age of the Directors being 58.
Board, and Directors hold themselves to a of the executives, so they have an appropriate Genderdiversity has been poor since the high standard of integrity.
The agility of the level of understanding to enable them to current Board was established in 2013 but has Board enables opportunities to be harnessed constructively challenge the executives on risen this year to 18% with the appointment of and addressed at short notice.
All Directors the operation of the Company.
To aid the a second female independent Nonexecutive advised that they enjoy Board meetings, improvement of the RDI portfolio, the depth Director.
The Companys diversity policy which is a key characteristic of a motivated of property knowledge on the Board was has set targets of at least one third female and successful team.
Directors are highly further strengthened with the appointment membership on the Board by 2020, and at committed to their roles, with a 100 per cent ofElizabeth Peace in November 2017. least one Director of colour by 2024, which attendance of the Board and committee theCompany is confident it can reach.
Gender Experience Qualifications Average age Nationalities diversity F 18% women Finance 7 Business 4 40 9% UK 6 P 82% men Property 7 Property 4 50 9% SA 3 E Europe 6 Finance 4 60 46% Jersey 1 U UK Listed 10 Corp Gov 1 70 18% NZ 1 S SA Listed 4 None 1 70 18% Board tenure see succession planning on page 86 Appointment Executive Appointment Non-executive 5 years Stephen Oakenfull, 7 years Michael Farrow, Gavin Tipper, Marc Wainer Mike Watters 5 years Sue Ford 4 years Adrian Horsburgh 4 years Bernie Nackan 3 years Donald Grant 3 years Robert Orr 1 year Elizabeth Peace RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 79
