Nomination committee report Nomination committee chairmans annual statement The nomination committees primary focus this year has been on succession planning for the board and executive team.
There have been a number of board member changes during the year that have ensured a busy period for the committee.
Succession planning board and executive management As stated in last years report, the committee employed independent search consultants to seek potential candidates to succeed Kathryn Matthews as a non-executive director andas chairman of the group risk committee.
It was also agreed to undertake a search for an additional non-executive director with executive experience in the investment management industry.
Membership and attendance Following a rigorous search process, Terri Duhon was Meetings attended Director eligible to attend appointed to the board in July 2018.
In September 2018, the committee recommended Terris appointment as chair M P Nicholls chairman 6 6 of the group risk committee.
The committee appointed 1 C M Clark 1 1 Russell Reynolds Associates to undertake the search J W Dean 4 6 process for an additional non-executive director and, 2 T L Duhon 2 2 in October 2018, Colin Clark was appointed to the board.
S F Gentleman 6 6 I also referred in last years report to the committees review J N Pettigrew 4 6 of executive succession plans, which were seen as integral to developing the next phase of our strategic plan.
As a first step, in April 2018, the committee approved the appointment of Former director Paul Stockton as managing director of Rathbone Investment 3 K A Matthews 4 4 Management and, after a careful assessment by the committee of Pauls performance in his new role, it was agreed in 1.
Colin Clark joined the committee on 24 October 2018 2.
Terri Duhon joined the committee on 2 July 2018 November 2018 that he would succeed Philip Howell as chief 3.
Kathryn Matthews retired from the committee on 12 September 2018 executive by the 2019 AGM.
In reaching its conclusion, the committee met a number of times to assess Pauls progress as managing director of Rathbone Investment Management.
The Roles and responsibilities committee was unanimous on his appointment.
Paul has been The responsibilities of the committee include reviewing a key individual in the firms success and has played an integral the composition including the skills, knowledge, role in the growth of the business over the last 10 years.
experience and diversity of the board and making Following Pauls change in role in April 2018, the committee recommendations to the board for the appointment approved a detailed specification for the role of group finance of directors.
The board as a whole then decides on director with input from the chief executive and engaged an any such appointment.
external search consultancy firm, Korn Ferry, to find appropriate The committee also has wider responsibilities for candidates.
The firm is not connected to the company in any succession planning and the leadership needs of the way.
The search process included consideration of both external organisation, both executive and non-executive, to and internal candidates and, at all stages, the committee took ensure the continued ability of the firm to implement steps to ensure that external and internal candidates were its strategy and compete effectively in the marketplace.
A shortlist of external and internal candidates was agreed and candidates were interviewed by members of Full terms of reference for the committee are reviewed the board and executive team.
Following these interviews and annually and are available on the companys website.
assessments, the committee recommended the appointment of Jennifer Mathias.
The board then considered and approved the recommendation.
The PRA and FCA have each given their approval to Jennifers appointment.
Jennifers appointment as a director will be proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM in May 2019.
The committee believes that Paul and Jennifer will make an excellent team.
74 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Governance recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander review Non-executive directors skills published in November 2016.
However, the committee As mentioned above, a key responsibility of the committee recognises that, due to the relatively small size of the board, is to ensure that the board maintains a balance of skills, the appointment or departure of a single director can have a knowledge and experience appropriate to the operation of significant impact on its ability to achieve recommendations the business and as required to deliver the strategy.
During the in relation to the composition and diversity of the board as year, the committee considered and reaffirmed the skill set and a whole at a particular point in time.
experience of the firms independent non-executive directors, For further information on our approach to diversity, please including their extensive experience in financial services.
refer to the corporate responsibility report on page 44.
Talent development Corporate governance reform The committee also takes a keen interest in executive The committee has monitored the various reforms to succession plans, which include executive directors, the corporate governance in the UK that have been announced group executive committee members and management during the year.
These include the publication of the new roles across the business.
Potential successors have been Corporate Governance Code 'the new Code', which will identified for many senior management positions and first apply to the company in the financial year ending 31 non-executive directors have met key individuals as part December 2019.
The committee has received updates from of normal board interactions and their visits to various teams the company secretary on the new Code and its implications in London and offices across the country.
The committee for the firm.
The committee will continue to discuss the continues to receive reports on the talent pipeline, which resulting actions required over the coming months to ensure identifies high-calibre individuals with management potential.
that the company complies with the new Code during 2019.
The committee acknowledges that, in a company the size of Rathbones, there may not always be successors for every senior role.
The committee will continue to focus on this issue Board effectiveness review as a key part of its remit.
A formal and rigorous evaluation of the committees effectiveness was undertaken during the year as part Independence and conflicts of interest of the internal board effectiveness review.
The review found that the committee operated well during the year.
It is of the utmost importance that the board of a financial services firm has high-quality, experienced non-executive directors with the skills and integrity to undertake senior Looking forward management roles.
At Rathbones, we are fortunate to have We will continue to keep under review a succession timetable such non-executives.
I maintain a dialogue with each of them for both executives and non-executives.
We will also monitor on potential conflicts of interest and time commitments.
I am the development of management talent below board level quite satisfied that in each case any conflicts of interest are and encourage greater diversity and challenge management likely to be rare and will be handled appropriately by the to develop the talent that exists in the firm.
I have also been impressed by the wholehearted commitment of all our non-executive colleagues to Rathbones during a year in which they were often called upon to attend non-scheduled or Mark Nicholls informal meetings at short notice.
Chairman of the nomination committee All non-executive directors will be standing for re-election 20 February 2019 at the 2019 AGM.
Board diversity Diversity continues to be a key focus of the committee.
The committee embraces the benefits of diversity and it has been a topic of discussion throughout the year, including in the context of the board-level appointments considered by the committee and as part of the committees review of talent and executive management succession planning.
The committee considers that the board remains diverse, drawing on the knowledge, skills and experience of directors from a range of backgrounds, but will seek to take opportunities to further improve the diversity of the board where it is consistent with the skills, experience and expertise required at a particular point in time.
When Jennifer joins the board in April, three of the companys eight directors will be women, meaning that the representation of women on the board exceeds the minimum percentage set out in the rathbones.
