Corporate Governance Statement compliance with regulations governing UK publicly listed The Company is premium listed on the companies, such as the UK Listing Rules, the Disclosure London Stock Exchange LSE and this Guidance and Transparency Rules and the Prospectus Rules: and Statement is prepared with reference to the Financial Reporting Councils UK matters relating to developments in, or changes to, the Groups strategic direction, material corporate or financial Corporate Governance Code the Code transactions.
in effect for the financial periods The full Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board is available beginning on or after 17 June 2016, at www.
and the Disclosure Guidance and The principal activities undertaken by the Board are set out Transparency Rules requirements over the following pages.
A summary overview is set out in to provide a corporate governance thetable on Board focus areas in 2018 on page 67. statement.
This Statement sets out Board meetings how the Company has applied the Board meetings are structured in an open atmosphere conducive to challenge and debate.
Five scheduled meetings Main Principles of the Code throughout are normally held each year.
Additional meetings, which may the year ended 31 December 2018 and be held in person, by phone or consist of written resolutions, are held throughout the year to consider topics that may have as at the date of this Statement.
arisen outside the formal standing agenda.
Leadership Operating and financial reports from the Executive Directors Board responsibilities are discussed at each Board meeting, and detailed The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the presentations may be made by non-Board members on Group, focusing on its governance with the highest regard material matters to the Group.
tothe principles of the Code.
As part of its responsibility, the Board oversees the development of the Companys strategic At the conclusion of every formal Board meeting, the Chairman aims, ensures appropriate processes are in place to manage holds a session with the other Non-Executive Directors, riskand monitors the Companys financial and operational without the Executive Directors present, providing further performance against objectives.
opportunity for the Non-Executive Directors to assess the performance of the Executive Directors and help drive future The Board consists of a balance of Executive and Non-Executive agenda items.
Directors who together have collective accountability to RBsShareholders as well as responsibility for the overriding Board governance structure Committees of the Board strategic, financial and operational objectives and direction The Board has established four Board Committees to assist in ofRB.
These are the Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee The Board manages the overall leadership of the Group with andthe Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and reference to its formal Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Compliance CRSEC Committee.
This schedule is reviewed annually, with the last review under terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms undertaken in November 2018, and broadly covers: of reference are reviewed regularly, the last review taking matters which are legally required to be considered or place in November 2018, and can be found on the Companys decided by the Board, such as approval of RBs Annual website.
The current committee membership of each Director Report and Financial Statements, declaration of dividends is shown on pages 58 to 61.
The Board has also established and appointment of new Directors: two supporting management committees: the Disclosure Committee, which ensures accuracy and timeliness of disclosure matters recommended by the Code to be considered of financial and other public announcements: and the Executive bytheBoard, such as terms of reference for the Board Committee, which is RBs key management committee.
anditscommittees, review of internal controls and riskmanagement: Board Remuneration Nomination Audit Committee CRSEC Committee Committee Committee See more on See more on See more on See more on page 80 page 87 page 93 page 76 Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 68 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Nomination Committee CRSEC Committee The Nomination Committees key objective is to make The CRSEC Committee was established in July 2016 to support recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates the Board in reviewing, monitoring and assessing the for appointment to the Board and its committees and Companys approach to responsible, sustainable, ethical and regularly review and refresh their composition to ensure compliant corporate conduct and to assist the Board in that they comprise individuals with the necessary skills, upholding its values of honesty and respect.
Details of the knowledge and experience to effectively discharge their priorities which it has set itself for the coming year and its responsibilities.
The Committee also reviews and ensures achievements to date are set out in the CRSEC Committee that appropriate procedures are in place for succession Report on pages 87 to 92. plans of the senior management.
Membership during the year and further details are set out in the Chair of Board attendance at scheduled meetings the Nomination Committee Report on page 76.
In 2018, there were five scheduled Board meetings, plus seven additional meetings relating to potential M&A activities in Audit Committee the year.
There were four regular Audit Committee meetings, The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging five scheduled and one additional Remuneration Committee its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting and is meetings, seven Nomination Committee meetings and responsible for ensuring effective internal financial control four scheduled and two additional meetings of the CRSEC and risk management.
Membership of the Audit Committee Committee.
The table overleaf sets out the attendance and details of its activities during the year are set out in the by individual Directors at the main Board and individual Chair of the Audit Committee Report on pages 80 to 86.
Committee meetings which each Director was eligible to attend.
Directors who were not members of individual Board Remuneration Committee Committees were also invited to attend one or more meetings The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in fulfilling of those Committees during the year.
Where a Director is its oversight responsibility by ensuring that Remuneration unavoidably absent from a Board or Board Committee meeting, Policy and practices reward fairly and responsibly: are they still receive and review the papers for the meeting and linked to corporate and individual performance: and take typically provide verbal or written input ahead of the meeting, account of the generally accepted principles of good usually through the Chairman of the Board or the Chairman governance.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee of the relevant Board Committee, so that their views are during the year is set out in the Directors Remuneration considered at the meeting.
Given the nature of the business Report on page 93.
The report details the current policy on to be conducted, some Board meetings are convened at remuneration and sets out Executive Directors remuneration, short notice, which can make it difficult for some Directors to Non-Executive Directors fees and share ownership.
attend due to prior commitments and their home locations.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 69 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board attendance at scheduled meetings Remuneration 1 Board Audit Committee Committee CRSEC Committee Independence 2 Adrian Bellamy 2 of 2 2 of 2 2 of 2 n a 3 Andrew Bonfield 3 of 3 2 of 2 y Nicandro Durante 4 of 5 5 of 5 3 of 4 y Mary Harris 5 of 5 5 of 5 y Adrian Hennah 5 of 5 n a 2 Ken Hydon 2 of 2 2 of 2 y Rakesh Kapoor 5 of 5 n a 4 Mehmood Khan 3 of 3 1 of 2 y Pam Kirby 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 y 5 Andr Lacroix 5 of 5 4 of 4 y Chris Sinclair 5 of 5 5 of 5 3 of 3 y 2 Judy Sprieser 2 of 2 2 of 2 y 6 Elane Stock 2 of 2 1 of 1 y Warren Tucker 5 of 5 4 of 4 y 1 As determined by the Board for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
2 Retired from the Board following the AGM on 3 May 2018.
3 Appointed to the Board and Audit Committee on 1 July 2018.
4 Appointed to the Board and CRSEC Committee on 1 July 2018.
6 Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2018, and to the Remuneration Committee on 8 November 2018.
The Chairman Executive Committee, acting individually or as a group or The roles of the Chairman and the CEO have a clear division sub-committee: acquisition and disposal of businesses and of responsibilities, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
unbudgeted capital expenditure projects subject, in each case, The Chairmans principal responsibility is for the effective to a 50 million limit: and instructing advisors and instigating running of the Board and chairing Board and Shareholder legal proceedings on behalf of the Company in respect of meetings.
Effective leadership and governance of the Board matters for which no further Board authority is required.
allows the Directors to focus on the key strategic, financial and operational issues, to make sound judgements and be The Senior Independent Director comfortable to challenge any uncertainties, as well as ensuring The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board a transparent approach in communicating with Shareholders.
forthe Chairman and is available to the other Directors and Shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed The Chairman leads the annual performance evaluation process through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
of the Board and its committees, which in 2018 was conducted using questionnaires and analytics software provided by The Executive Directors Independent Audit Limited, in line with good governance.
The Executive Directors have additional responsibilities for the Details of the evaluation follow on page 72. operation of RBs business as determined by the CEO.
Every Director may request that any matter not delegated to the CEO The Chief Executive Officer should be discussed by the Board and that no action should be The CEO is principally responsible for the day-to-day taken before the Board has decided on the matter.
management of RB, in line with the strategic, financial and operational objectives set by the Board.
He chairs the Executive The Non-Executive Directors Committee, consisting of the CEO, the CFO and senior The Non-Executive Directors share full responsibility for management executives, who together are responsible for theexecution of the Boards duties, are independent of execution of the Companys strategy and achieving its management and provide critical input into Board decisions commercial aims.
More details about the members of the through their contributions to Board discussions and their roles Executive Committee are set out on pages 62 to 63. on, and Chairmanship of, the Board Committees.
With a wealth of experience and skills between them, they are well The CEO has the power delegated to him by the Board to placed to help develop the Companys long-term strategic, enable him to carry out his duties efficiently.
Such powers financial and operational goals, as well as constructively include delegation of the day-to-day management of the challenge and examine the day-to-day management of the business of the Company to each of the Officers of the business against the performance targets and objectives set.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 70 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for setting taken note of the Hampton-Alexander Review published in appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors November 2018, which identified that RB is on target for 33% and ensuring performance targets are closely aligned with female representation at Board level, but has less than 20% Shareholder interests.
They are also critical to the development female representation in the combined Executive Committee of succession planning and the appointment and removal of and their direct reports.
We also meet the recommendations of the Parker Review The Non-Executive Directors are also responsible for ensuring published in October 2017, with at least one person from that adequate internal controls and risk management systems anethnic minority on the Board.
Our Executive Committee, have been developed and implemented, that these are comprising the most senior management level in the business, continually monitored and suitably robust and that financial represents five different nationalities from across the globe, information is complete, accurate and transparent.
embodying our corporate inclusion and diversity policy.
The Companys wider global leadership community holds over 50 The Company Secretary nationalities between them, representing a broad background The Company Secretary takes responsibility for compliance of collective skills, cultures and experience.
This widens our with all relevant governance requirements and assists the understanding of our consumers, who themselves come from Chairman with ensuring Board procedures are followed.
The the broadest possible backgrounds, allowing us to be best Company Secretary in his or her role further advises the Board placed in serving their needs.
on changes to relevant legal and corporate governance regulations.
The Board is collectively responsible for the We always recruit the best and most suited candidates for appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
anyrole and we strive for a well-balanced representation of backgrounds, nations, cultures, skills and experiences, at all Effectiveness levels across the Group.
Board composition and succession planning The Board regularly reviews its composition to determine We are committed to equality of opportunity in all areas whether it has the right mix of skills and background to ofemployment and business, regardless of personal effectively perform its duties.
The Board also considers internal characteristics.
Our diversity policy can be found at executives and senior management positions to ensure a www.
We continue proper breadth of talent is developed.
The Board has appointed towork hard on our inclusion and diversity programmes, and Directors from a wide variety of business backgrounds to further details can be found in our Stakeholder Engagement provide it with a strong balance of skills and experience.
Board is comprised of the Chairman and a majority of NonExecutive Directors who, together with the Executive Directors, Board balance and independence help maintain a solid, collective understanding of the Company On appointment, Non-Executive Directors are made aware and and its daily business.
All Non-Executive Directors, excluding are required to confirm they will allocate sufficient time to their the Chairman who was independent on appointment, are role to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
They are also determined by the Board to be independent.
required to seek agreement from the Chairman before taking on additional commitments, and to declare any actual or More details about the current Board members can be found potential conflicts of interest.
Non-Executive Directors are on pages 58 to 61. engaged under the terms of a letter of appointment.
Initial terms of appointment are for three years with one months The Shareholder agreement between the Company and JAB notice, with all Directors standing for election or re-election Holdings B. V. JAB at the time of the merger in 1999 entitled at every AGM of Shareholders.
JAB to nominate Board Directors.
A holding in excess of 20% or 10% of the Companys ordinary shares entitles JAB to The Nomination Committee has principal responsibility nominate two Directors or one Director respectively.
JABs delegated to it for making recommendations to the Board current holding is below this amount and there is currently onnew appointments and composition of the Board and nonominated Director on the Board.
The Board and each Director are confident theyindividually have the expertise and relevant experience In accordance with the Code, every Director submits himself requiredto perform the role of a Director of a listed company.
orherself for election re-election at every AGM.
The Company recognises the developmental advantages of an external non-executive role on a non-competitor board and Inclusion and diversity Executive Directors are permitted to seek such a role, provided We meet the recommendations set by the Davies Report on that they do not take on more than one non-executive Women on Boards, and have the potential to achieve the directorship in, or become the Chairman of, a FTSE 100 target of 33% of women on our Board by 2020.
Adrian Hennah is a Non-Executive Director of RELXplc.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 71 Corporate Governance Statement continued The 2018 evaluation of the Boards performance during the would benefit them in performing their duties to the Company.
year concluded that the Chairman and other Non-Executive Ongoing training arranged by the Company covers awide Directors continue to devote sufficient time to carrying out variety of sector-specific and business issues, as well aslegal and their duties to the Company.
Each Director standing for financial regulatory developments relevant to the Company and election or re-election has individually provided assurances the Directors.
Training is also provided by way ofbriefing papers thatthey remain committed to their roles and can dedicate or presentations at each scheduled Board meeting, as well as sufficient time to perform their duties.
Accordingly, the Board meetings with senior executives or other external sources.
recommends that Shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions to elect or re-elect all the Directors at the 2019 AGM.
Board support The Company Secretary is responsible for organising Board Director inductions and training meetings, as well as collating any papers for the Board RB has established a comprehensive induction programme for toreview and consider.
Board and committee papers are new Directors.
The programme covers RBs business, legal and accessible to all Directors through a secure and confidential regulatory requirements of Directors and includes one-to-one electronic document storage facility.
This facility is maintained presentations from senior executives across the Group covering by RBs Secretariat function and additionally holds other topics such as strategy, investor relations, taxation, internal information which the Chairman, the CEO or Company audit, CRSEC matters, supply and the Companys two business Secretary may deem useful to the Directors, such as press units Health and Hygiene Home.
The induction programme releases and pertinent Company information.
has several aims and serves multiple purposes.
It provides new Directors with an understanding of RB, its businesses and the All of the Directors have individual access to advice from the markets and regulatory environments in which it operates, Company Secretary and a procedure exists for Directors to take provides an overview of the responsibilities for Non-Executive independent professional advice at the Companys expense in Directors of RB and builds links to RBs people and furtherance of their duties.
Incoming Board members will also have legal due diligence meetings and an open offer to meet with the Groups Conflicts of interest and indemnity External Auditor.
Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA2006 to avoid interests, direct or indirect, which The three new Non-Executive Directors appointed during the might conflict with the interests of the Group.
Under year received tailored inductions following their appointment, the terms of theCompanys Articles of Association, such to coincide with the next meetings they would be eligible conflicts can be authorised by the Board which at all times toattend.
Consistent across the separate inductions were takes responsibility for ensuring compliance with laws and meetings with the CEO, CFO, SVP General Counsel & Company regulations on corporate governance, and that Directors Secretary.
Each of the new Directors then met with certain or potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed.
pertinent individuals depending on the committees they had joined were joining.
For example, Andrew Bonfield met with The Company indemnifies the Directors and Officers of the the External Auditor, and Elane Stock met with Deloitte Company and any Group subsidiary to the extent permitted consultant to the Remuneration Committee.
byCA 2006 and the FCA Listing Rules in respect of the legal defence costs for claims against them and third-party liabilities.
Andrew also met with key individuals across RBs Investor The indemnity would not provide cover for a Director or Officer Relations, Tax, Treasury and Finance teams, and with if that individual was found to have acted fraudulently or representatives from each business unit.
Additionally, Directors and Officers liability separately met with the Group CIO and Chief Safety, Quality insurance cover was maintained throughout the year at the and Regulatory Compliance Officer, SVP Investor Relations, Companys expense.
Chief Scientific Officer and SVP R&D Health.
Elane also met with the Chief Human Resources Officer and Group Head Evaluation of the Board ofAudit prior to her being appointed as a member of the The Board annually reviews its own and its committees Remuneration Committee.
Mehmood met with senior performance and effectiveness.
In line with the Code individuals within the SQRC and Supply teams.
requirements, an internal review took place in the year, with targeted questionnaires and analytics software provided by Site visits are arranged to the Groups operations to gain an Independent Audit Limited.
Independent Audit Limited insight into the business, and form part of the annual Board provides board evaluation services and has no other connection meeting cycle, and we aim to have one Board strategy meeting with the Company.
held at an off-site business location.
The questionnaire was based around the themes of strategy The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the and risk-taking, risk management, line of sight, leadership and Directors receive suitable training to enable them to carry out accountability, roles and responsibilities, and the manner of their duties.
As part of their role, Directors are also expected to working together with management.
Positive feedback was personally identify any additional training requirements they feel received in all areas.
A report, with action points and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 72 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements recommendations for the Board to consider, was distributed balanced and understandable assessment of RBs position and toDirectors and the results of the assessment subsequently prospects, in line with Code requirements.
The Board considers discussed by the Board at its November meeting.
that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide In addition, the Chairmans performance was separately sufficient information for Shareholders to be able to assess the considered by the Senior Independent Director with input Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
fromhis fellow Non-Executive Directors and discussed in November 2018.
RBs finance function, headed by the CFO, has implemented a number of policies, processes and controls to enable The Board believes it is a collaborative team, and the refresh of the Company to review and fully comply with changes in talent, experience and diversity brought by the newer Nonaccounting standards, financial regulations and recognised Executive Directors has worked very well in delivering insight practices.
These processes are kept under review on an and improvements in our sustainability agenda, compliance ongoing basis.
Multiple teams including consolidation activity, and the oversight of the RB 2.0 reorganisation as two and financial accounting, together with technical support, business units, Health and Hygiene Home.
The Board has a ensure both internal and external developments are number of new members, and with its current membership, reviewed and responded to.
The Group also maintains a isquickly establishing itself and its way of working and has a Finance Policy Manual setting out the required standards willingness to openly discuss difficult issues.
of financial reporting and approvals across the Group and its operating units, including a structured process for the The principal outcomes for the Board to focus on in the coming appraisal and authorisation of any material capital projects.
year are: The basis for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements continuing its focus on executive succession planning, is set out on page 142 under Accounting Policies.
particularly for CEO succession, talent management and leadership development, and continued renewal of the Board: The Companys External Auditors Report, setting out its work and reporting responsibilities, can be found on supporting and providing oversight of the reorganisation pages 124 to 136.
The terms, areas of responsibility and ofthe Group into two business units, including monitoring scope of the External Auditors work are agreed by the delivery of the benefits of that reorganisation and leading Board and set out in the Auditors engagement letter.
the strategy for sustainable growth: More information on the Groups principal risks and strategy reviewing and determining strategy, in particular with for growth and achieving targeted goals is detailed in the regard to the strategic flexibility which will be provided Strategic Report, which can be found on pages 1 to 57. byRB 2.0: supporting a culture of responsibility, including health, The Viability Statement can be found on pages 56 to 57. safety, compliance and risk management: The Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 123 details that the Board continues to consider reputational-related the going concern statement as required by the Listing Rules risks, and that the Board understands the key assumptions and the Code and the Directors responsibility for the Financial and uncertainties of strategic proposals: and Statements, for disclosing relevant audit information to the External Auditor and for ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, maintaining the good work done on balanced and understandable.
Risk appetite The 2018 review of the Boards performance and that of its The Board has overall responsibility for complying with the committees concluded that the Board, its committees and Code and the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on individual Directors were continuing to perform effectively.
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Recommendations have been taken on board to be addressed and Business Reporting.
It oversees the internal controls and these will be reassessed as part of the 2019 evaluation, established, and monitors their effectiveness, in managing which will be facilitated by an external third party.
The sectors and environment within which RB operates are dynamic and fast moving, and the controls are continually Accountability kept under review to minimise the potential exposure to Risk management risk.
The system is designed to assess and manage, rather The Board has ultimate responsibility for preparing the Annual than eliminate, risks to RBs business objectives, and the Report and Financial Statements.
RB has implemented robust Board relies on these controls in so far as they are able to internal controls to safeguard the integrity of both the Group provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against and its subsidiary Financial Statements and ensures that material misstatement or loss.
The Groups principal risks adequate verification processes are in place to enable it to and mitigating factors are detailed on pages 42 to 57. confirm that the Groups Financial Statements present a fair, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73 Corporate Governance Statement continued As part of its risk control, RB regularly evaluates principal risks withrisks and risk controls incorporated into the discussions.
to achieving objectives, emerging risks and the likelihood of During the year, the Directors undertook a robust assessment such risks materialising and determining the ability of the of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that Group to cope with the circumstances should they occur.
In could threaten RBs business model, future performance, doing so, it also looks to actions that can be taken, controls solvency and liquidity.
More detail on the Groups principal that can be implemented and processes that can be followed strategic risks and uncertainties can be found in the Strategic to reduce the chances of risk events taking place, mitigating Report onpages 1 to 57. the potential impact and ensuring that the cost of doing so is proportionate to the benefit gained.
The CRSEC Committee focuses on the Companys corporate social responsibilities, environmental and sustainability issues Internal control and overall ethical conduct and regulatory compliance.
Further Internal control processes are implemented through clearly details of the work of the Committee can be found in the defined roles and responsibilities, delegated by the policies report of the CRSEC Committee Chair from page 87. to the executive team and senior management.
The Board confirms that reviews and monitoring of the RB operates three strands in monitoring internal control appropriateness and effectiveness of the system of internal systems and managing risk: control and risk management throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Management ensures the controls, policies and procedures Statements have been satisfactorily completed with no are followed in dealing with risks in day-to-day business.
significant failings or weaknesses identified.
Such risks are mitigated at source with controls embedded into the relevant systems and processes.
Supervisory Relations with Shareholders controls either at management level or through delegation The Board values effective communication with Shareholders ensure appropriate checks and verifications take place, with and is committed to regular, clear and transparent dialogue.
any failures dealt with promptly and awareness raised in This includes formal presentations of full-year and interim order to review gaps in existing controls.
Throughout RB, results, together with quarterly statements on the Companys a key responsibility for any line manager is to ensure the key performance indicators, with roadshows to meet with achievement of business objectives with appropriate risk institutional investors following results announcements.
management and internal control systems.
RB maintains regular dialogue with sector analysts and Each function and business unit has its own management fund managers to ensure a widespread understanding and which acts as a second line of oversight and verification.
availability of information regarding developments for the This level sets the local level policies and procedures, specific Group, as well as the industry sectors which RB serves.
The to its own business environment, subject to Group policy CEO, CFO and the SVP Investor Relations meet regularly and authorisation.
They further act in a supervisory capacity with institutional Shareholders and analysts to discuss the over the lower level management implementation of performance of the Group and its strategy.
The financial performance of each function and has regularly engaged in Shareholder meetings since his business unit is monitored on a monthly basis against appointment at the last AGM.
Where appropriate, the views of pre-approved budgets and set against forecasts, developed Shareholders are also sought in relation to remuneration plans higher up the management chain, and ultimately overseen and governance issues.
RBs investor meeting held in May 2018 by the executive management and the Board.
attended by the Chairman, SID and Committee Chairs, along with RB management, was well received.
The Investor Forum The third strand is provided through independent review by engaged with the Company in preparing for this meeting.
the Internal Audit team, who challenge the information and assurances provided by the first two strands.
This review Mary Harris, as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, met ultimately gets reported back to the Board, via the Audit with investors during the year to discuss the renewal of RBs Committee, with action taken to address matters identified.
Remuneration Policy, which will be submitted for Shareholder More details on the Audit Committee and its activities can approval at the forthcoming AGM.
Details can be found in the be found on pages 80 to 86.
The Groups compliance Report of the Remuneration Committee Chair, commencing controls further include operating an independent and onpage 93. anonymous Speak Up whistleblower hotline, annual management reviews and providing training specific to Pam Kirby, as Chair of the CRSEC Committee, also met with individual needs within the business.
The Board is also various institutional investors to share our progress on CRSEC provided with reports on the effectiveness of these controls matters, where we gave a deeper insight to the committed to ensure full oversight of the business.
programme of work overseen by the Committee detailing the comprehensive nature of the programmes and activity since the RB is committed to maintaining strong internal controls.
inception of the Committee and our ongoing areas of focus.
Function and operating management meet to discuss performance measured against strategic aims and goals, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 74 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Feedback is presented to the Board to ensure all Directors Section 172 1 Statement arefully aware of the views of existing Shareholders, major The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018 investors and analysts.
An investor survey was undertaken introduced a new reporting requirement, set out in a new in2018 and the results were presented to the Board.
This requires us to report to you from next year on how the Directors of the Company have Analysis of RBs Shareholder register is made available to the performed their duties under section 172 1 of CA 2006 Board, and reports prepared by the Groups brokers and public tohave regard to stakeholders and other matters while relations advisors are provided to all Directors after every performing their duties to promote the success of the significant corporate event and on other relevant occasions.
Whilst we are not required to report on the new enhanced information for the financial year in review, we have All Shareholders may speak with the Companys Investor included information about our stakeholders from page 12.
Relations team and the Company Secretary and a section of the RB website is dedicated to Shareholders.
The Chairman is also available to discuss governance and strategy with major Shareholders and does so regularly, providing feedback on the meetings to the rest of the Board.
If required, key executives, along with the Senior Independent Director, are available to discuss matters of concern.
Annual General Meeting and Shareholder voting The Board views the AGM as a valuable opportunity to meet with its private Shareholders, giving them an opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, Chairs of the committees and the Board.
All Shareholders can vote on the resolutions put to the meeting.
In line with good governance, voting is by way of poll, providing one vote for each share held.
Results of the poll are released to the LSE and published on the Groups website shortly after the AGM.
The Investment Association IA has launched a public register of FTSE All-Share companies which have received votes of 20% or more against any Shareholder resolution, or which withdrew a resolution prior to a shareholder vote, along with company statements of actions taken following the vote.
At our AGM in May 2018, all resolutions were passed and no resolution had a vote of 20% or more against it.
Website The Investor Relations section on the RB website provides theBoard with an additional method of communicating to Shareholders.
As well as the latest regulatory disclosures, copies of the latest and previous years Annual Reports, latestshare price information and copies of previous investor presentations and key calendar dates are available.
The page can be found at www.
Shareholders can also access information on all our sustainability activities, our Modern Slavery Statement, our Gender Pay Gap Report and associated policies on the RB website at www.
We published our first Payment Practices Reports in July 2018 for our qualifying UK subsidiary entities that transact with our suppliers and have since complied with the ongoing reporting requirements.
Wehave also published our Tax Strategy in 2018.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 75
