Corporate Governance On behalf of the Board, I present the Chairmans Companys Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
This is my first report Statement to our Shareholders since succeeding Adrian Bellamy as Chair, following the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Adrian for his contribution over many years and for the invaluable support he provided to me as ChairmanAs a Board, we have a clear elect ahead of his retirement.
focus on creating value for our shareholders, and We report against the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code issued by the Financial contributing to the good Reporting Council FRC.
I am pleased to confirm that our governance and stewardship highstandards of compliance with the Code remain.
of our business, on behalf A revised code was published in July 2018, which will become effective for accounting periods beginning on or after of all our stakeholders.
The key changes between the 2016 and 2018 Codes are: Chris Sinclair Enhanced board engagement with the workforce and Chairman focuson wider stakeholders in decision-making.
Greater emphasis on the role of the Board in assessing andaligning culture with purpose, values and strategy.
Broader focus on diversity and emphasis on skills and experience within the Board.
Proportionate executive remuneration that supports thelong-term success of the business.
Whilst reporting against the 2018 Code is not yet mandatory, the Board has and will continue to examine its current practices in relation to the requirements of the 2018 Code and some of the new provisions have already been adopted.
There have also continued to be a significant number of other changes in the political and regulatory landscape affecting the corporate governance agenda over 2018 and in the future.
Theintroduction of the General Data Protection Regulation, gender pay gap reporting and the implications for the Group and its two business units around the withdrawal of the UK from the EU on 29 March 2019 were reviewed by the Board during the year, and we have continued to enhance our high governance standards.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 64 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements RB 2.0 Directors as at 31 December 2018 The Board has also spent considerable time reviewing andapproving managements plans for transforming RBs operational performance under RB 2.0.
In 2017, the Board Female approved the decision to reorganise the Group into two 3 focused and fully accountable business units, Health andHygiene Home, to better serve our consumers and customers and to simplify and streamline our business.
Muchprogress hasbeen made under the programme, Male whichwent live on1 January 2018.
You can read about 8 thisinour StrategicReport.
RB values at a glance Achievement Ownership Hungry for Its my business, outperformance I own it, I drive it Responsibility Doing the Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors as at right thing even 31 December 2018 when its hard Partnership Entrepreneurship Building trusted 9 plus Courage to disrupt relationships to 1 the status quo 13 years create value 3 6-9 years 1 Both business units are united by shared values that reflect RBs underlying principles and beliefs.
These values define the way that RB does business.
Our Code of Conduct which reinforces 3-6 years 4 our principles of business conduct is communicated to all employees at the start of each year with mandatory training.
Our five values Responsibility, Ownership, Entrepreneurship, Partnership and Achievement underpin the Code and our commitment to outperformance.
Board and succession planning There were a number of changes to the Companys leadership during 2018.
Adrian Bellamy, Ken Hydon and Judy Sprieser, all Directors nationalities as at 31 December 2018 having served for a significant length of time on the Board, stepped down following the 2018 AGM on 3 May 2018.
Indian Following a detailed review of Chairman succession, led by the British 1 Senior Independent Director, the Nomination Committee in 5 Brazilian 2017 recommended to the Board that I should succeed Adrian 1 as Chairman of the Board and I was delighted to accept.
French 1 Andr Lacroix also took the decision to step down from the Board at the end of December 2018, having served for over nine years.
Andr was Senior Independent Director of the American Board and these responsibilities have been taken over by 3 Nicandro Durante.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 65 Corporate Governance continued As part of the refreshment of the Board, and following an Mike has hands-on experience of cutting edge supply chain extensive search and thorough recruitment process, we also management and previously held senior supply roles at saw three new Non-Executive Directors join the Board during Amazon and Nestl.
He will progress the transformation of the year.
Andrew Bonfield and Mehmood Khan joined the various supply chains in RB and will focus on continuous Board as Non-Executive Directors on 1 July 2018, with Andrew improvement of manufacturing operations in Health, further joining the Audit Committee on appointment.
Andrew was integration of IFCN supply chains, enhancing and diversifying subsequently appointed Chair of the Audit Committee with our supply technology capabilities and driving our focus on effect from 1 January 2019 following the retirement of Andr safety, quality, service and cost.
Mike was appointed as an Lacroix from the Board and its committees.
On his appointment Executive Committee member on 12 November 2018. in July, Mehmood joined the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance CRSEC Committee.
Biographies of the members of our Board of Directors and Executive Committee can be found on pages 58 to 63.
Elane Stock joined as a Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2018, and on 8 November 2018, she joined Accountability and audit the Remuneration Committee.
The Board has responsibility for confirming that the FinancialStatements for the Group are fair, balanced and I am confident that these appointments bring to the Board understandable.
It is supported in its decision by the Audit strategic insight and recent relevant financial and sector Committee, which ensures the integrity of the Groups experience.
I am delighted to welcome Andrew, Mehmood financialreporting, internal controls framework and risk andElane to the Board.
The Audit Committee works closely with the CRSEC Committee, the Internal Audit function and On 16 January 2019, we announced Rakesh Kapoor will retire the External Auditor.
The Board has initiated a formal search process to recruit Rakeshs successor, considering both Following a comprehensive audit tender process and in internal and external candidates.
compliance with the UK implementation of the EU requirements on auditor rotation, at the 2018 AGM Further details on Board succession can be found in my Shareholders approved the appointment of KPMG LLP KPMG reportas Chair of the Nomination Committee, commencing as External Auditor, replacing PwC for the financial year ended onpage 76.
Having confirmed their willingness to act, aresolution to propose KPMGs reappointment as External In addition to the new Non-Executive Director appointments, Auditor at the AGM due to be held on 9 May 2019 will be we also made some changes to our Executive Committee submitted to Shareholders for their approval.
We appointed Adi Sehgal, EVP Health for Developing Markets and E-commerce, as Chief Operating Officer, Health Remuneration and as an Executive Committee member on 22 January 2019.
Aligning the interests of our Executive Directors with those Adi has consistently delivered superior results in his career at ofour Shareholders remains the key driver behind our RB, holding many management roles across sales, marketing Remuneration Policy.
We are conscious of the need for a and innovation.
He played a leading role in building our China measured approach to remuneration, whilst offering sufficient business and transformed our approach to e-commerce.
reward for effective performance to maximise our ability to Adi led the integration of MJN into RB and the subsequent recruit and retain the best-suited candidates.
Shareholders last integration of the IFCN division into the Health business unit.
approved our Remuneration Policy in 2016 and, in line with best practice, we will be asking Shareholders to approve the Regretfully, Amedeo Fasano, Chief Supply Officer, will retire Companys Remuneration Policy this year.
Details of the from the Company in June 2019 after 21 years with RB.
proposed Policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Amedeos successor, Mike Duijser, joined RB in November Report on pages 98 to 106 and are summarised in the separate 2018, to allow for a smooth transition and handover, which Notice of AGM.
Amedeo played an important rolein the strategic transformation of RB and our leading Code trackrecord in value creation and built a very strong supply The Board considers compliance with the Code of utmost leadership capability.
Any instances of non-compliance are only allowed through the authority of the Board if it can be shown that the spirit of the Code and good corporate governance within the Company generally continues.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 66 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements All the existing Directors will be offering themselves for The Corporate Governance Statement outlines the Companys election or re-election at the 2019 AGM.
As previously governance processes in greater detail and is on pages 68 to announced, Warren Tucker will have served nine years from his 75.
The Company has complied with the Code throughout the first election at the 2010 AGM.
The Board has taken this into year ended 31 December 2018. account and believes that the current mix of tenure is in the best interests of our Shareholders, and that Warren continues I am extremely proud of the Board and all our RB colleagues to challenge appropriately, act independently and provide our forcreating value for our Shareholders and contributing to the newly appointed Non-Executive Directors with a wealth of good governance and stewardship of our business, on behalf experience to avail themselves of in respect of the RB business.
Excellent work has been done and this Consequently, we requested Warren to remain on the Board will continue to be a focus for me in my role as Chairman.
We look for your continued support for Ibelieve RB is an outstanding company with leading brands, Directors standing for election and re-election to serve the avery strong sense of purpose and a track record of Board on your behalf and to promote the long-term success outperformance.
As a Board we continue to have a clear focus ofthe Company.
on maximising the opportunities to outperform in the future.
Chris Sinclair Chairman 18 March 2019 Key areas of Board focus in 2018 Strengthening the security and recovery processes of our The Board considers reports from the CEO and the CFO on IT systems strategic and business developments as well as financial performance and forecasts for the business at every meeting.
Results and Financial Statements Compliance with reporting requirements In addition, the following areas formed substantial areas of Annual Report and Financial Statements focus for the Board in the year: Results and presentations to analysts Strategy and planning Group budgets, forecasts and key performance targets, Remuneration including assumptions, scenarios and projections Oversight of executive remuneration and renewal of RBs Remuneration Policy Potential mergers and acquisitions and post-acquisition reviews, including the integration of MJN Leadership and governance Performance relative to key competitors Board and Committee evaluation and effectiveness Group debt and funding arrangements Director and senior management succession planning RB 2.0 structural reorganisation Corporate responsibility, sustainability, ethics and compliance Risk management and internal control Relations with Shareholders RBs principal risks, emerging risks and the Groups risk register, including newly identified environmental risks Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and the impact of Brexit and best practice Consideration and approval of the Viability Statement Other The effectiveness of the Groups compliance programme Independent review of the Groups management of sustainability and social impact issues Ongoing remediation of the South Korea Humidifier Sanitizer HS issue The ongoing investigation by the US Department of Justice DoJ into the Groups former pharmaceuticals business, which was demerged at the end of 2014 Internal controls Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 67
