Nomination Committee Report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report for the financial year ended We are pleased with the 31 December 2018. progress we have made in I became Chair of the Nomination Committee in September renewal of the Non-Executive 2017 at the time RB announced that I would become Chairman membership of the Board, and of the Board after the 2018 AGM, when Adrian Bellamy would retire as Chairman and step down from the Board.
The focus of this work continues.
We have the Committee since that time and during 2018 has been on renewal of the Board in terms of Non-Executive Directors, but also had a focus, along with the also succession planning for top management.
Board as a whole, on succession At the conclusion of the 2018 AGM, my predecessor, Adrian planning for top management.
Bellamy, retired as Chairman and two of our long-standing Non-Executive Directors, Ken Hydon and Judy Sprieser, stepped Chris Sinclair down from the Board.
The Committees work to bring in Chair of the Nomination Committee additional skills and new Directors to the Board has resulted in the appointment of three highly talented new Non-Executive Directors: Andrew Bonfield and Mehmood Khan on 1 July 2018: and Elane Stock on 1 September 2018.
We also announced on 13 December 2018, that Andr Lacroix would step down from the Board at the end of 2018 and retire from his roles as Senior Independent Director and Chair of our Audit Committee.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Andr for his service and wish him all the best for the future.
With effect from 1 January 2019 we appointed Nicandro Durante as Senior Independent Director and Andrew Bonfield as Chair of the Audit Committee.
I am pleased to also welcome them both as members of the Nomination Committee.
As part of our succession planning for the Board and Audit Committee, we asked Warren Tucker to remain on the Board for an additional 12 months from the 2019 AGM, when he had been intending to retire.
On 4 January 2019, with Warrens agreement and subject to re-election by Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, we announced that Warren Tucker would remain as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit Committee until the 2020 AGM.
On 16 January 2019, it was announced that Rakesh Kapoor would retire as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of RB by the end of 2019.
As announced, we are undertaking a formal and comprehensive process for appointing a successor for the role, considering both internal and external candidates.
I would like to express the Boards sincere thanks and appreciation for Rakeshs vision, passion and leadership throughout his tenure.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 76 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Committee priorities for 2019 Composition The members of the Committee during the year were: To lead, on behalf of the Board, the search for and appointment of a new CEO and Executive Director Composition Tenure during the year Chris Sinclair Chair and member of the Committee for Succession planning and bench strength for other senior Chair the whole year executive roles at RB Nicandro Durante Appointed as member of the Committee Ongoing renewal of the Non-Executive Directors of the on 1 January 2019 Board Andrew Bonfield Appointed as member of the Committee on 1 January 2019 Ongoing review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Rakesh Kapoor Member for the whole year committees in the context of RB 2.0 Pam Kirby Member for the whole year To review diversity and inclusion policies, in line with the Mary Harris Member for the whole year guidance being introduced under the 2018 UK Corporate Andr Lacroix Member for the whole year: resigned from Governance Code the Committee and the Board on I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their 31 December 2018 exceptional support during a very busy year for the Nomination Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board.
I will be available to answer any questions Membership is set out in the terms of reference and comprises Shareholders may have at the Companys AGM on 9 May 2019. the Chairman, CEO, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of each of the Boards committees.
In accordance Chris Sinclair with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Chair of the Nomination Committee the Committee is made up of a majority of independent 18 March 2019 Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary acted as Secretary to the Committee during the year.
The membership of the Committee is reviewed annually by theChairman, as part of the annual performance evaluation ofthe Committee.
All Directors are required to seek re-election each year at the AGM.
Biographical details of the Directors, explaining their skills and expertise, can be found on pages 58 to 61.
Meetings The Committee meets as needed, but is required to meet atleast once a year.
In 2018 the Committee met seven times.
Meetings usually take place ahead of Board meetings and theChair of the Committee reports formally to the Board on itsproceedings.
During the year, Committee members met with candidates shortlisted for the position of Non-Executive Director, reported their feedback at Committee meetings and made ensuing recommendations to the Board.
Further details on the recruitment process are discussed on the following pages.
Role of the Nomination Committee The role of the Committee is to ensure there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, to lead the process for Board appointments and make recommendations to the Board.
The Committee also assists the Board in succession planning for top management.
A further description of the Committees roles and responsibilities is set out in its terms of reference which can be found at www.
com Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 77 Nomination Committee Report continued The role of the Committee extends to the following matters: On 1 July 2018, Andrew Bonfield was appointed as a NonExecutive Director on recommendation of the Committee.
Reviewing and ensuring that appropriate procedures are in Andrew brings extensive, recent and relevant financial place for succession planning of senior management and for experience to the Board and holds, and has previously held, considering and authorising conflicts of interests.
roles as Chief Financial Officer at large international companies.
It was decided that Andrew would join as a member of the Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition Audit Committee on his appointment to the Board, and on including skills, experience, independence, knowledge and 1 January 2019 he was appointed as Chair of the Committee.
diversity of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes deemed necessary.
Mehmood Khan was identified as a strong candidate for the position of a Non-Executive Director.
The Committee agreed Reviewing the composition of each of the Board that he would be a good cultural fit for the role and broaden Committees and evaluating the performance and the diversity of the Board membership.
Mehmood has a effectiveness of each Director.
nutrition and pharmaceutical background and brings global Assessing the leadership capabilities of the Company, both R&D and sustainable innovation experience to the Board.
executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the His appointment was approved by the Board with effect continued ability of the Company to compete effectively in from 1 July 2018.
On appointment, Mehmood joined RBs the markets in which it operates.
Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee.
Ensuring that all new Directors undertake an appropriate induction programme to ensure that they are fully informed We announced the appointment of Elane Stock as a Nonabout the strategic and commercial issues affecting Executive Director, with effect from 1 September 2018, the Company.
following the recommendation of the Committee.
Elane brings her expertise of consumer goods products, particularly in Non-Executive Director search personal care and wellness, and has wide-ranging knowledge Cognisant of the departure of Adrian Bellamy, Ken Hydon and of emerging markets and the changing preferences of Judy Sprieser, we conducted our search for new Non-Executive trade and consumer channels.
On 9 November 2018, Directors to diversify the skills and expertise of the Board.
it was announced that Elane had joined the TheCommittee discussed the need to identify individuals with Remuneration Committee.
international experience, financial experience and senior leadership skills in consumer-facing businesses.
During the recruitment process, the Committee followed a formal, rigorous and transparent assessment of all potential We instructed Egon Zehnder International Ltd to carry out candidates and considered potential conflicts of interest in thesearch for new Non-Executive Directors.
Upon their making recommendations to the Board.
As a Committee recommendation we reviewed a list of candidate profiles we will continue to regularly review and refresh the Board andIhad exploratory meetings with potential candidates who where appropriate.
were considered as a good fit for RB, in terms of international experience, skills, culture and diverse talent ahead of Executive Director succession planning recommending for further consideration.
This was followed up Following the announcement of Rakesh Kapoors decision by individual meetings with each of the Nomination Committee to retire as CEO by the end of 2019, we are undertaking the members, the CEO who is a Committee member and formal search for his successor.
Whilst internal candidates are theCFO.
being considered, the Committee has also instructed a thirdparty search firm to assist with the search, considering both Egon Zehnder International Ltd is an independent executive internal and external candidates.
search firm which undertakes a number of executive searches for the Group and also carried out an assessment of all MJN Renewal of existing Board members senior management, and is a signatory to the Voluntary Code During the year the Committee considered the renewal of of Conduct for Executive Search Firms in the UK to address existing Non-Executive Directors.
On 13 December 2018, diversity and best practice relating to Board appointments.
itwasannounced that Andr Lacroix would retire from the Board with effect from 31 December 2018.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 78 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements On 4 January 2019, it was announced that Warren Tucker Review of Committee terms of reference would remain as a Non-Executive Director and as a member At the November meeting, we reviewed the Committees ofthe Audit Committee for an additional 12 months from the termsof reference, to take account of the 2018 UK Corporate date of the 2019 AGM, subject to re-election by Shareholders.
Governance Code the Code and recommended best practice The Committee is mindful that Warrens tenure as a Nonto provide clearer detail on the role, responsibilities and duties Executive Director will exceed nine years following the 2019 of the Committee.
The changes were approved by the Board, AGM.
Warren had intended to retire from the Board at the and the updated terms of reference can be found at 2019 AGM, having joined the Board in 2010.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually.
appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors in the reporting period, Warren will provide continuity to the Board In accordance with the Code, the Committee has also discussed with his deep insight and experience of RB.
Therefore, I am Board engagement with the workforce, and various alternatives pleased that he has agreed to stand for re-election at the 2019 are being considered, which will be subject to future AGM, to extend his tenure until May 2020, at which time he recommendation to the Board.
intends to step down from the Board.
The Board continues to regard Warren Tucker as independent.
Diversity We do not have a written Board diversity policy but the Review of potential conflicts of interest Committee and the Board are committed to recruit members During the year the Committee reviewed Board members of the Board on the strict criteria of merit, skill, experience and potential conflicts of interest.
The Committee reviewed cultural fit of any potential candidates, and to seek gender and aschedule of external appointments as disclosed by each other diversity on the Board.
The Board and Committee fully Director as areas of conflict.
Having reviewed the schedule, recognise the importance of diversity, including gender and theCommittee concluded that the appointments did not ethnicity, at Board level and senior management roles at RB.
affecta Directors ability to perform his her duties and that This commitment is demonstrated by the composition of the the Board authorises each Director to continue in each of Board, which comprises five nationalities, and three women, his her external commitments.
two of whom are Committee Chairs.
I am pleased to report that 30% of our Board members are women, which exceeds We acknowledge that Pam Kirby sits on five Boards, and the original 25% target set by the Davies Report and, at 28% someShareholders are concerned she is overboarded.
women or more, we are closer to achieving the 33% target by The Committee monitors her time devoted to her duties, 2020, set out by Lord Davies.
We also meet the requirements her attendance at meetings and availability to Shareholders, of the Parker Review, with at least one person from an ethnic and believes that Pam continues to be effective, committed minority on the Board.
Our diversity policy can be found at www.
com Governance responsibility workplace diversity.
Ultimate responsibility and Committee evaluation sponsorship for this policy rests with the Executive Committee.
The Committee carried out a self-evaluation of its performance Senior management is accountable, and all RB employees are using a detailed questionnaire and report analysis software responsible, for ensuring that our diversity policies and developed by Independent Audit Ltd, the results of which programmes are actively implemented and followed.
werereported at the November Committee meeting.
Thequestionnaire was based on five main themes: Board composition: succession planning: finding the right people: engaging internally: and the Committees role and composition.
In summary, the results concluded that the effectiveness and performance of the Committee has strengthened.
Succession planning, including executive succession, bench strength and talent management were identified as areas of continued focus for the Committee.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 79
