Audit Committee Report This is my first statement as Chair of the Audit Committee.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased Ijoined RB as a Non-Executive Director and became a member to present the Audit Committee of the Audit Committee on 1 July 2018 and succeeded Andr Lacroix on 1 January 2019 as Committee Chair.
As the new Report for the financial year ended Chair of the Committee, I look forward to continuing Andrs 31 December 2018, which outlines the efforts in maintaining the integrity of financial reporting, reviewing and challenging management on the robustness and role, responsibilities and activities of effectiveness of our internal controls and risk management the Committee during the year.
systems, and providing oversight and reassurance to the Board on the risk management process and control procedures.
Each year the Committee has a detailed standing agenda of matters to be considered and reviewed.
In addition to our regular agenda reviews, we have carried out focused reviews in certain areas, including: risk assurance mapping: delivery of the RB 2.0 programme: the structure of shared services: compliance risk: and taxation matters.
Maintaining the integrity of our financial reporting, monitoring the robustness of internal controls and overseeing risk management processes continues to be our primary focus.
Andrew Bonfield Chair of the Audit Committee Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 80 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The risk and control challenges around the RB 2.0 The Committee is responsible for auditor effectiveness and reorganisation were reviewed and continue to be closely independence.
In 2017, the Committee led a rigorous external monitored, to track implementation of the programme and audit tender process leading to the Boards recommendation mitigation of the risks associated with it.
The Committee met toShareholders at the 2018 AGM to appoint KPMG LLP regularly with operational management at each of its meetings as External Auditor for the 2018 financial year.
I am pleased to review each of the RB 2.0 workstreams and also to consider to report that the Shareholders passed this resolution at the programme governance and the financial, legal, regulatory and 2018 AGM.
During the year in review, the Committee oversaw IT risks and controls.
and was pleased with the transition to KPMG.
The change of auditor has brought a fresh and consistent challenge During the year, we reviewed the Companys major risk of management.
assessment process, which identified and prioritised the principal and emerging strategic risks and uncertainties that Committee priorities for 2019 might affect the Group, how they could be mitigated and Continuing to provide oversight and reassurance to the whether they have increased, diminished or remained the Board on the risk management process and control same, compared to the previous year.
Looking at the major procedures riskassessment process is a key element of our review of the Regularly reviewing key areas in the context of risk and effectiveness of RBs risk management and control systems and control, in particular: RB 2.0 delivery: shared services: and identified risks are clearly and transparently reflected in our cyber-security communications to Shareholders in this report.
Details are set Building on the assurance mapping exercise, further out on pages 40 to 57. developing first, second and third lines of defence We also built upon the assurance mapping review carried out in 2017 to formalise and enhance our second and third line of I would like to acknowledge and thank Andr Lacroix, whom defence assurance activities, as a basis to drive and embed a Isucceeded on 1 January 2019 as Audit Committee Chair, for more structural approach to management of and assurance his valued leadership of the Committee: I wish Andr well in his required on our systemic as well as our specific principal risks.
Andr succeeded Ken Hydon as Chair of the Committee in May 2017.
Ken stepped down as a member The Committee has reviewed the 2018 Annual Report and of the Committee and Board in May 2018 as he did not stand Financial Statements to ensure that they are fair, balanced for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
andunderstandable and provide sufficient information to enable the Shareholders to assess the Groups position and I would also like to acknowledge and thank my fellow performance, business model and strategy.
The form and Committee members, Pam Kirby and Warren Tucker, for content of the 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements theirdiligence and service during the year.
were reviewed and approved, and consistency of narrative within the document confirmed.
The preparation and I will be available to answer any questions Shareholders verification processes were determined to be robust.
Following mayhave at the Companys AGM on 9 May 2019. the Committees review, we advised the Board that we were satisfied that the 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements, Andrew Bonfield taken as a whole, met its objectives and supported the Board Chair of the Audit Committee in making its statement on page 123.
18 March 2019 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 81 Audit Committee Report continued Composition Committee meetings usually take place ahead of Board The members of the Committee during the year were: meetings and the Committee Chair provides an update of the key issues discussed to the Board at each meeting.
Copies of Composition Tenure during the year Committee papers are provided to all Board Directors in Andrew Bonfield Appointed as a member of the Committee advance of each meeting and minutes of each Committee Chair on 1 July 2018 and became Chair of the meeting are provided to the Board.
Committee on 1 January 2019 Pam Kirby Member for the whole year Role and responsibilities The Committee is part of the Groups governance framework Warren Tucker Member for the whole year and supports the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities Andr Lacroix Chair and member for the whole year: in ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, resigned from the Committee and the internal controls and overall risk management process.
Its role Board on 31 December 2018 and responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which Ken Hydon Stepped down from the Committee at the can be found at www.
AGM on 3 May 2018 See more The Deputy Company Secretary was Secretary to the www.
In November 2018, the Assistant Company Secretary was appointed as Secretary Committee meetings cover matters set out in its terms of to the Committee.
reference related to the reporting and audit cycle, including: halfand full-year results: Internal and External Audit work Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board on the plans and reports: and regular updates from senior financial recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which reviews management and the External Auditor.
membership in terms of skills, knowledge and experience.
TheBoard is satisfied that each member of the Committee is The Committees responsibilities include, but are not limited to, independent and that Committee members as a whole have the following matters: competence relevant to the Companys sector.
The Chair of the Committee is a Chartered Accountant with Financial and other reporting matters recent and relevant financial experience.
All Committee Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of members have financial, economics and or business theCompany and any formal announcements relating to management expertise in multinational organisations and theCompanys financial performance.
Reviewing and theyare expected to have an understanding of the principles challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgements of, and recent developments in, financial reporting and an of management before submission to the full Board.
understanding of the Groups internal control systems.
The skills and expertise of each Committee member are Reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Financial summarised on pages 58 to 61.
Statements and advising the Board on whether it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information On joining the Committee and during their tenure, members receive additional training tailored to their individual necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Such training includes meetings with internal management covering internal audit, legal, tax, treasury and Reviewing and approving the statements to be included in financial matters as well as meetings with the External Auditor.
the Annual Report concerning internal control, risk All members of the Committee receive regular briefings management and the Viability Statement.
fromsenior executives on matters covering governance and legislative developments, accounting practices and policies Considering significant legal claims and regulatory issues.
Internal Audit, risk and controls Meetings During 2018, the Committee held four scheduled meetings Carrying out a robust assessment of emerging risks and attimes related to the Companys reporting cycle, and the considering the Companys response to identified risks.
attendance of members at the meetings is set out in the table on page 70.
Senior representatives of the External Auditor, Ensuring that procedures are in place for detecting fraud theChief Internal Auditor and the CFO attend all meetings.
and prevention of bribery, and secure arrangements are TheChairman of the Board and the CEO are also invited to all inplace by which staff may raise concerns about meetings and other senior management attend when deemed possible wrongdoings in matters of financial reporting appropriate by the Committee.
Time is allocated at each and financial controls.
meeting for private discussion with the Internal and External Auditors without other invitees being present, as well as a Assessing and approving Internal Audits annual work plan to ensure it is aligned to the key risks of the business and private session of the Committee members.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 82 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements ensuring that the Internal Audit function has sufficient Monitoring the rotation of the External Audit partner and resources and access to management to perform its role.
managing the competitive tendering process of the audit services contract.
Reviewing Internal Audit activities, significant recommendations and findings and related management Reviewing and monitoring the External Auditors actions.
Monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of the Internal Developing, implementing and keeping under review policy Audit function.
on non-audit services provided by the External Auditor, considering relevant ethical guidance and the impact this Reviewing and monitoring on an ongoing basis the scope may have on independence.
and effectiveness of internal financial, operational and compliance risk management controls and processes.
External Audit Considering and making recommendations to the Board to put to Shareholders for their approval at the AGM regarding the appointment, reappointment or removal of the External Auditor.
Activity during the year Items considered by the Committee at meetings during Standing agenda items reviewed by the Committee the year during the year February 2018 Review of 2017 preliminary results, Received reports of the SVP Corporate Controller, Internal draft unaudited Financial Statements Auditor and External Auditor and related announcement and Reviewed fraudulent activity or reports raised under the recommendation to the Board whistleblowing procedure for approval Reviewed tax and treasury matters, including provisioning Review of work undertaken in respect and compliance with statutory reporting obligations of the 2017 Internal Audit plan Reviewed legal matters including compliance risk Approval of final non-audit fees for Kept abreast of changes in financial reporting and 2017 and review of 2018 non-audit governance matters by way of technical updates throughout fees forecast the year May 2018 Review of progress of 2018 Internal Received focused risk and control reviews concerning the Audit plan delivery of RB 2.0 in particular, in the areas of the shared July 2018 Review of the half-year results services function, deployment of IT systems, legal entity announcement restructuring, operating model review and financial reporting : the integration of MJN: risk assurance mapping: November 2018 Review of KPMGs first impressions IT risk: legal compliance: and tax disputes risk of RB Reviewed the Groups major risk assessment process Review of the Committees 2019 standing agenda Review of the Committees terms of reference and recommendation to the Board for approval Review of the results of effectiveness reviews of the Committee, Internal Audit function and External Auditor Review of 2019 Internal Audit Plan covering the first half of 2019 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 83 Audit Committee Report continued The key matters reviewed and evaluated by the Audit As required under IFRS, management has included Committee during the year were as follows: additional impairment-related disclosures in the Financial Statements.
The Committee has reviewed these disclosures, Financial reporting included within Note 9, and considers them appropriate.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and Trade spend approving the appropriateness of the interim and annual Trade spend remains a significant cost for the Group, and Financial Statements and related announcements, including: the main judgements relate to trade accruals, specifically the recommending that, in the Committees view, the Financial timing and extent to which temporary promotional activity Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee reviewed with management its addition to the detailed preparation and verification assessment of the control environment and the findings of procedures in place for the 2018 Annual Report and Internal Audit relating to trade spend and considered that Financial Statements, management continued its focus on management operates an appropriate control environment narrative reporting and clear written and visual messaging which recognises the risks in this area.
to communicate the Groups strategy.
The Committee Tax provisioning concluded that the disclosures contained in the Financial From time to time, the Group may be involved in disputes in Statements and the underlying processes and controls are relation to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions appropriate and recommended to the Board that the 2018 around the world where the approach of the authorities is Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, particularly difficult to predict.
The level of provisioning for are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the these investigations is an issue where management and tax necessary information for Shareholders to assess the judgement are important.
The Committee debated the key Groups position and performance, business model and judgements made with management, including relevant strategy: and professional advice that may have been received in each reviewing the appropriateness of the accounting policies, case, and considers the tax provisioning levels and judgements and estimates used as set out from page 142 disclosures to be appropriate.
and concluding that the judgements and assumptions used Legal liability provisioning are reasonable.
At 31 December 2018, a provision of 461 million 2017: 501 million was held on the Groups balance sheet in The significant financial judgements and complex areas in relation to regulatory, civil and or criminal investigations relation to the 2018 Group Financial Statements considered by bygovernment authorities as well as litigation proceedings the Committee, together with a summary of the actions taken, and a provision in respect of the South Korea Humidifier were as follows: Sanitizer HS and US Department of Justice issues.
The Impairment assessments Committee challenged management on legal judgements In the latter half of 2018, management performed its annual made in determining the level of provisioning and was impairment review of goodwill and other indefinite-life satisfied with the level of provisioning and disclosure.
Key management judgements included Adjusting items the allocation of these assets to cash-generating units The Committee considered the presentation of the Group CGUs or groups of cash-generating units GCGUs, the Financial Statements and, in particular, the presentation assessment of expected short-, mediumand long-term ofadjusting items and the elements included within such growth rates, and the calculation of pre-tax discount rates measures.
The Committee discussed this with management see Note 9 to the Group Financial Statements.
and agreed that the presentation provided meaningful information to Shareholders about the underlying The Committee reviewed managements analysis and performance of the Group.
confirmed the appropriateness of the key judgements, as well as the specific risk factors and sensitivities applied Going concern and Viability Statement to individual CGUs and GCGUs.
Given the results of A viability review was undertaken by management, managements analysis, the Committee met in January 2019 encompassing its going concern review.
The Committee to specifically discuss both the IFCN GCGU and Oriental reviewed the key assumptions used by management in its Pharma CGU.
Whilst the Committee is satisfied that no viability review and going concern assessment, as well as the impairment was required at 31 December 2018, the scenarios applied and risks considered.
Based on its review, Committee will continue to monitor both operations given the Committee considers that the application of the going their relative lack of headroom and sensitivity to changes concern basis for the preparation of the Financial Statements in key assumptions.
was appropriate and confirmed the suitability of the ViabilityStatement covering a five-year period, as set out on pages56-57.
The use of a five-year period for the viability review was approved by the Board in 2018 as it is the period of the Groups long-term forecasting process and covers the various business cycles.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 84 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk management and internal control The Committee reviews the nature and level of non-audit In monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the system services undertaken by the External Auditor during the year ofinternal controls, the Committee reviewed compliance to satisfy itself that there is no impact on its independence procedures and RBs overall risk framework including the and is required to approve all non-audit services.
The Groups whistleblowing arrangements and considered Board recognises that in certain circumstances the nature operational risk and control processes.
There were no of the advice required may make it more timely and costsignificant failings or weaknesses during the year meriting effective to appoint an auditor that already has a good disclosure in this report and the Committee considers the understanding of RB.
The total fees paid to KPMG for internal control framework to be functioning appropriately.
the year ended 31 December 2018 were 9.9 million, of which 0.4 million related to audit-related and nonExternal Auditor audit work to which KPMG was appointed principally The Committee is responsible for maintaining the relationship for the above reasons.
Details of services, provided with RBs External Auditor on behalf of the Board.
RB by the auditor, are set out in Note 4 on page 154. has a formal policy in place to safeguard the External Auditors independence.
Following the introduction of EU reforms, the Groups internal policy on non-audit fees was revised, effective The Committee considers and makes a recommendation to 1 January 2017, to reflect prohibited non-audit services, the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment including all tax services provided to entities within the and removal of the External Auditor, and oversees the EU.
The policy states that, on an annual basis, non-audit tendering of the External Audit contract.
The Committee fees should not exceed 50% of the Groups External Audit approves the External Auditors terms of engagement and and audit-related fees for the year.
The Board confirms remuneration and reviews the strategy and scope of the that, for the year ended 31 December 2018, non-audit audit and the work plan.
The Committee also monitors and audit-related fees were 4% of the audit fees.
the rotation of the lead Audit Partner, who rotates every five years in accordance with best practice standards.
In the opinion of the Committee, the relationship with the The current lead Audit Partner, Richard Broadbelt, has External Auditor works well, the Committee remains satisfied just completed the first year of his five-year term.
with the External Auditors independence and effectiveness and believes KPMG is best placed to conduct the Companys Following a robust and rigorous audit tender process in 2017, audit for 2019.
KPMG has expressed a willingness to the Committee and Board recommended the appointment continue as External Auditor of the Company.
Following a of KPMG LLP as External Auditor of the Group for the recommendation by the Committee, the Board concluded, year ending 31 December 2018 for Shareholder approval.
on the Committees recommendation, that it was in the KPMG was formally appointed as the Groups Auditor by best interests of the Shareholders to appoint KPMG for a Shareholders at the AGM on 3 May 2018.
The tender process further year.
In accordance with s489 CA 2006, resolutions allowed for a smooth handover process from the Groups to propose the reappointment of KPMG as the Companys outgoing external Auditor,  LLP.
The External Auditor and to authorise the Committee to fix its Audit Committee and management closely monitored this remuneration will be put to the Shareholders at the AGM.
KPMG was given an induction process to help build on its understanding of the business.
These Internal Auditor induction activities included attending key meetings with The Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring management and the outgoing Auditor during the 2017 the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The Chief audit cycle and attending the Committees February 2018 Internal Auditor reports to the Chair of the Committee and to meeting.
This was supplemented by KPMG performing the CFO for administrative matters and updates the Committee detailed audit planning activities at all of the Groups material at each meeting.
The Internal Audit function is responsible operating locations through the Spring Summer of 2018. for impartially assessing the key risks of the organisation and appraising and reporting on the adequacy and effectiveness For the year ended 31 December 2018, the Company of RBs risk management and internal controls in financial, has complied with the Competition & Markets Authority information systems and other business and operational Order: The Statutory Services for Large Companies Market areas to develop and improve the effectiveness of the Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes Groups risk management control and governance processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. and strategies.
RBs identified Group major risks and their mitigating controls are described in detail on pages 42 to 57.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 85 Audit Committee Report continued The Internal Audit plan is prepared on a half-yearly basis under The Internal Audit effectiveness review was carried out through an agreed cover and scope policy and reflects a risk-based direct post-audit feedback and questionnaires targeted at approach.
Designated audit locations are determined at the Committee members, Executive Committee members and start of each year following a risk and control assessment of functional heads.
The evaluation of the Internal Audit function, each commercial and supply unit.
Information systems and which covered audit scope, cost and communications, quality head office locations also fall within Internal Audits remit process, governance and independence, and calibre and andare subject to audit.
Following each audit, findings are capability, indicated that reviewers deemed the Internal Audit reviewed and reported to management and to the Committee, team to have a strong degree of integrity and reputation for together with recommendations and updates.
The alignment of Internal Audit management actions and progress are tracked until a report activity with that of other second line of defence providers issatisfactorily closed.
In 2018, routine internal audit work wasnoted as an area for increased attention.
The Committee covered 38% by Net Revenue of RBs global commercial considered the effectiveness review and the work carried out business and 47% by industrial sales of global manufacturing by the Internal Audit function as reported at every Committee facilities.
meeting and concluded that it was an effective operation and the Committee remains satisfied that the quality, experience Governance and expertise of the function is appropriate for the Company.
In November 2018, the Board approved the Committees proposed changes to its terms of reference to take account of In light of 2018 being KPMGs first year as External Auditor, the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and recommended theassessment of the External Auditor was conducted during best practice.
The updated terms of reference can be found the Committees November 2018 meeting.
We review our terms of reference annually.
with the way the change has been managed and the consistent challenge of management and output of a robust audit.
During the year, the Committee undertook a self-evaluation ofits performance using a detailed questionnaire.
Matters During the financial year under review, the Company had no reviewed by Committee members included effectiveness in the interaction with the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review Team areas of: risk strategy and framework: internal and external or its Audit Quality Review Team.
audit: external reporting: Committee role and composition: information and support: meeting logistics and focus: and engaging internally and externally.
In summary, the results concluded that the effectiveness and performance of the Committee remain strong.
Risk and assurance was identified asan area of continued focus for the Committee.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 86 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
