STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 116 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued will receive on retirement.
It is funded through payments to between the proceeds, net of transaction costs and the INVENTORIES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS trustee administered funds, determined by actuarial valuations redemption value is recognised in the income statement Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable a.
Land creditors carried out on at least a triennial basis.
A defined contribution over the period of the borrowings.
value lesscash on account which represents payments made Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays agreed against work in progress, excluding private customer deposits.
discounted present value using the effective interest method, f. Deposits contributions into a separate fund for each employee and any in accordance with IAS 39.
The difference between the fair subsequent pension payable to a specific employee is Cost comprises land and associated acquisition costs, direct New property deposits from private customers are held within value and the nominal value is amortised over the deferment determined by the amount accumulated in their individual fund.
materials and subcontract work, other direct costs and those Trade and Other payables until the legal completion of the period via financing costs.
The GPP is also a type of defined contribution plan.
overheads based on normal operating capacity that have related property or the rescission of the sale contract.
been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect ONEROUS CONTRACTS location and condition, excluding borrowing costs.
These on the date of the land purchase.
of the defined benefit section of the scheme is the present include infrastructure and development costs such Onerous contracts are contracts in which the unavoidable value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet as roads and sewers, including contributions to other b.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge costs in meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the date, less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit community benefits such as schools, medical centres economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Provision accounting obligation is determined using the projected unit credit method and community centres.
is made to reflect managements best current estimate of the on an annual basis by an independent scheme actuary.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair least net cost of either fulfilling or exiting the contract.
value and the fair value is remeasured to fair value at each Total land costs are allocated to the private housing on a Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience reporting date.
development as, in the case of amenity land and social housing adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are SHARE CAPITAL land, neither has sufficient contribution from sales of the charged or credited to equity asthey arise in full via the The Groups use of financial derivatives is governed by an Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
precise area of the land to cover the land costs and are a statement of comprehensive income.
interest rate risk management framework adopted by the planning requirement of the development.
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION Board which sets parameters to ensure an appropriate level Scheme service costs are charged to cost of sales and of hedging is maintained to manage interest rate risk in Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is administrative expenses as appropriate and scheme finance Provisions are established to write down land where the respect of borrowings.
recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements costs are included in net financing costs.
Past service costs estimated net sales proceeds less costs to complete exceed in the period in which the dividends are declared.
Adjustments to the provisions will The policy prohibits any trading in derivative financial be required where selling prices or costs to complete change.
instruments or their use for speculative purposes.
IMPACT OF NEW STANDARDS AND In respect of the defined contribution section of the Scheme Net realisable value for land was assessed by estimating INTERPRETATIONS and the GPP, contributions are recognised as an employee The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative selling prices and cost including sales and marketing benefit expense when they are due.
The Group has no further a New and amended standards adopted by the financial instruments which are designated and which qualify expenses, taking into account current market conditions.
payment obligations in respect of the above once the Group.
The following new standards and amendments as cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity in a contributions have been paid.
to standards are mandatory for the first time for the This net realisable value provision will be closely monitored hedge reserve.
The gains or losses relating to the ineffective financial year beginning 1 July 2017: for adequacy and appropriateness as regards under and over portion are recognised in the income statement immediately b.
Bonus plans provision toreflect circumstances at future balance sheet they arise.
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses Amendments to IAS7, Statement of cash flows on disclosure dates.
Any material change to the underlying provision will where contractually obliged.
c. Loans and receivables be reflected through cost of sales as an exceptional item.
The implementation of these standards has not had a Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets c. Share-based payments FORWARD LAND material impact on the Group financial statements.
with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in Expenditure relating to forward land options, conditional Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair an active market.
They are included in current assets, except contracts and land owned without planning is initially value on the date of grantand expensed on a straight line for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet recognised in inventory at cost.
It is reviewed regularly for basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate date which are classified as non-current assets.
of shares that will eventually vest.
receivables include trade receivables and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS d. Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is a.
Pension obligation Trade receivables are held at discounted present value less terminated bythe Group before normal retirement date by any impairment.
The amount is then increased to settlement The Group operates two pension schemes for its staff.
Thesebenefits are recognised by the Group in value overthe settlement period via financing income.
Redrow Staff Pension Scheme the Scheme closed to the the period in which it becomes demonstrably committed to accrual of new benefits with effect from 1 March 2012, with new d. Cash and cash equivalents terminating the employment of current employees according benefits now being provided via the Redrow Group Personal to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call Pension Plan the GPP.
The Scheme is externally invested and deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, comprises two sections: a defined benefit section and a defined forming an integral part of the Groups cash management contribution section.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan are included as a component ofcash and cash equivalents which defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee for the purpose of the statement of cashflows.
e. Borrowings and trade payables Interest bearing borrowings and trade payables are recorded when theproceeds are received, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently at amortised cost.
Any difference STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 118 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued Notes to the Financial Statements from Contracts with Customers, is also applied.
The Group IMPACT OF NEW STANDARDS AND 1.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY has a number of operating leases, mainly in relation to cars INTERPRETATIONS CONTINUED Judgements and estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including and some office properties, which the Group currently b The following new standards and amendments expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Management have not made any anticipates will be required to be brought onto the balance individual critical accounting judgements that are material to the Group.
Management considers the key sources of estimation to standards have been issued but are not effective sheet together with corresponding assets.
The Group does uncertainty relate to: for the financial year beginning 1July 2017 and have not expect the net impact on profit to be significant.
not been early adopted: Carrying value of inventories IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
IFRS 15, The Group carries inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value less cash on account.
Revenue from contracts with customers is a converged standard from the IASB and FASB on revenue recognition.
Due to the nature of development timescales, it is routinely necessary to estimate costs to complete and future revenues and to The standard will improve the financial reporting of revenue allocate non-unit specific development costs between units legally completing in the current financial year and in future periods.
and improve comparability of the top line in financial A full review of the net realisable value of inventories was undertaken by the Group as at 30 June 2018.
It is more prescriptive in terms of what changes in the assumptions used would not have a significant impact on the net realisable value.
should be included within revenue than IAS 18 Revenue.
Published May 2014, effective date: annual periods Pensions beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Currently the Group The Group has utilised assumptions including a rate of return on assets, mortality assumptions and a discount rate having been recognises revenue at the fair value of the consideration advised by its actuary.
To the extent that such assumed rates are different from what actually transpires, the retirement benefit received and receivable in respect of the sale of residential obligations of the Group would change.
housing and land and of commercial land and developments net of value added tax and discounts on legal completion.
The primary risks the Group is exposed to by the defined benefit pension scheme are the movement in corporate bond yields, Profit is recognised on legal completion.
The Group the markets long-term expectations for inflation and movement in mortality rates.
The scheme closed to future accrual with continues to assess the impact of this standard on the Group.
This standard will not effect the statement of cashflows nor does the Group expect the implementation of this standard 2.
OPERATING PROFIT to have a material impact on profit.
2018 2017 Note m m Amendment to IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers.
Published April 2017, effective date: Annual Operating profit is stated after charging: periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Inventories expensed in the year 13 1,375 1,193 IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
This standard replaces the Depreciation 9 2 2 guidance in IAS 39.
Published July 2014, effective date: Amortisation 1 annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
It affects the classification, measurement, impairment and Operating leases plant and machinery 3 3 fide-recognition of financial instruments.
The Group does not other 1 1 currently expect its implementation to have a material impact on reported results.
Research and development expenditure 1 1 i IFRS 16 Leases.
This standard replaces the current guidance Auditors remuneration fees payable to the Companys Auditors for audit services in IAS 17 and is a far-reaching change in accounting by ii fees payable to the Companys Auditors for other services lessees in particular.
Under IAS 17, lessees were required to make a distinction between a finance lease on balance Fees payable to the Companys Auditors comprise: sheet and an operating lease off balance sheet.
IFRS 16 now requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting i fees payable for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 30,000 2017: 30,000 and fees future lease payments and a right-of-use asset for virtually payable for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 157,000 2017: 146,000. all lease contracts.
The IASB has included an optional exemption for certain short-term leases and leases of ii Auditors remuneration for other services comprised 20,000 2017: 20,000 in respect of an independent review of thehalflow-value assets: however, this exemption can only be yearly financial statements Audit related assurance services, nil 2017: 10,000 in respect of Radleigh audit file review applied by lessees.
For lessors, the accounting stays almost Non-audit services, nil 2017: 408,000 in respect of Reporting Accountant services Non-audit services and 9,100 the same.
However, as the IASB has updated the guidance 2017: 8,000 in respect of iXBRL tagging Taxationcompliance services.
on the definition of a lease as well as the guidance on the combination and separation of contracts, lessors will also be affected by the new standard.
At the very least, the new accounting model for lessees is expected to impact negotiations between lessors and lessees.
Under IFRS 16, a contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Published January 2016, effective Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 with earlier application permitted if IFRS 15, Revenue
