Governance Audit Committee report The Audit Committee has a vital role to play in ensuring the integrity of our financial statements, the effectiveness of our risk management processes and internal controls, and in evaluating the performance of the external audit process.
During 2018 we also monitored the various changes to the Corporate Governance Code, agreed the content of the viability statement and reviewed the work undertaken, and disclosures made, in relation to the financial impact of IFRS 15 Revenue fromContracts with Customers.
Carol Chesney, Chair of the Audit Committee performance and reviews the significant reporting Audit Committee role and composition judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the scope, The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from remit and effectiveness of the internal control systems and the non-executive directors of the Company.
The Audit internal audit function.
The terms of reference of Internal Committees terms of reference include all matters Audit are routinely reviewed with the next review to be indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 undertaken in 2018 19. and the Governance Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and any The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive changes are recommended to the Board for approval.
directors, Carol Chesney Chair, Sir David Grant and John Jeans.
The Board is satisfied that at least one The Audit Committee reviews the Groups accounting member of the Committee has recent and relevant policies and procedures, its final and half year financial financial experience, being Carol Chesney.
The members statements before submission to the Board and its of the Audit Committee have competence in the sectors in compliance with statutory requirements.
The Audit which the Company operates as set out below.
The terms Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups Financial of reference are available on the Companys website.
statements and announcements relating to financial Member Financial experience Company and position Sector Carol Chartered accountant Company Secretary of Halma plc Technology Chesney Non-executive director and audit committee chair of Hunting plc Manufacturing Worked at Arthur Andersen for 7 years Non-executive director and audit committee chair of Biffa plc Support Services Previously group financial controller at Halma plc Previously group accountant at English China Clays plc Sir David Senior independent director of IQE plc Technology Grant Director of Defence Science and Technology Laboratory Technology Chair of National Physical Laboratory Metrology Previously worked for Dowty Group Manufacturing Previously group technical director of GEC plc Engineering Previously vice-president of the Royal Academy of Engineering Engineering Chair of Edinburgh Molecular Imaging Biotechnology John Jeans Non-executive director of Prometic Life Sciences Inc and Prometic Biopharmaceuticals Pharma SMT Limited Previously chair of GE Healthcare Limited Healthcare Previously chair of UK Biocentre Limited Healthcare Previously chair of Imanova Limited Imaging services 56 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Governance The Committee meets at least three times a year with the Chief Executive first meeting July 2018, the Group Finance Director, the Head of Group Finance, the Group Financial Accountant, the Group Internal Audit Manager, the General Counsel & Company Secretary and the external auditor in attendance.
After each meeting, the Committee holds separate discussions with the external auditor and with the Group Internal Audit Manager respectively without the executives.
These executives work closely with the Chair of the Committee to ensure that transparency is maintained in both meeting papers and communications between meetings with the other Committee members, providing additional practical industry experience to aid discussions in and around meetings.
The Committee Chair provides feedback on significant matters considered during meetings to the Board after each Committee meeting.
A fourth meeting has been scheduled for autumn each year from 2018 19 onwards.
Key issues and activities In addition to reviewing the financial reporting of the Company, the Committee also spends a significant amount of time reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control processes and its internal and external audit activities.
The principal activities in the year were: Financial statements Risk management and External auditor and and reports internal controls Internal audit non-audit work reviewed the effectiveness of the reviewed the output from evaluated the scope of managed the relationship Groups risk management and the Groups risk review work to be undertaken with the external auditor: internal controls and disclosures process to identify, by the internal reviewed, considered made in the 2018 Annual report: evaluate and mitigate audit function: and agreed the scope risks and considered reviewed the 2018 Annual report reviewed progress and methodology of whether changes in risk and the 2018 Interim report.
on recommendations the 2018 audit work to profile were complete and The Committee received a report brought forward be undertaken by the adequately addressed: from the external auditor on the and considered external auditor: audit of the 2018 Annual report: monitored the effectiveness recommendations evaluated the of the Groups internal arising during the year: reviewed critical accounting independence and controls and fraud risk: judgements and estimation considered the objectivity of the uncertainties in the Financial reviewed and agreed the resource levels external auditor: statements, being the content of the viability available to the internal agreed the terms of capitalisation of development statement see page audit function: and engagement and costs, the classification of 37 and the process reviewed the approved the fees to be discontinued activities, the undertaken, including an effectiveness of the paid to the external auditor carrying value of inventory, the assessment of the stress internal audit process for the audit of the 2018 assumptions used to determine testing performed, in order financial statements: through discussion the defined benefit pension to approve both it and the with the Group Finance reviewed the level and schemes liabilities and the going concern statement Director, the Head nature of non-audit amortisation and impairment of see page 53 : of Group Finance services provided by the intangible assets: received updates on and members of the external auditor: reviewed the effectiveness of compliance with the Audit Committee.
undertook an effectiveness the Groups hedging policy and Groups anti-bribery and review of the external audit its application: corruption policy: process: and reviewed the accounting monitored the effectiveness reconfirmed the non-audit and disclosures in relation to of the Groups global services policy.
the Groups defined benefit whistle-blowing and serious pension schemes: misconduct policy: and reviewed the effective tax rate review of the Groups in the Financial statements published tax strategy.
and provision for uncertain tax positions: reviewed the approach the external auditor took in respect of management override of controls: evaluated the controls in place to ensure the Groups revenue recognition policy has been correctly applied: and reviewed the work undertaken, and disclosures made, in relation to the financial impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 57 Governance Audit Committee report continued Significant issues in relation to the Approach to auditor appointment and financial statements audit quality As part of the reporting and review process, the Committee The Committee has primary responsibility for making the has regular discussions with management and the external recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and auditor relating to significant issues.
For the current year removal of the external auditor, which the Board puts to the Committee concluded that the treatment of forward shareholders for approval at the AGM.
exchange contracts for hedging purposes and the This is the second financial year that the Annual report and judgements made in relation to the Groups defined benefit accounts have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP following pension schemes liabilities were the two significant issues their appointment at the AGM in October 2016.
The contract relating to the financial statements.
for external audit will be put out to tender at least every In 2017, it was identified that certain of the Groups hedging 10 years.
instruments did not comply with IAS 39 and therefore could The Committee has monitored the audit approach not be treated as qualifying hedging instruments.
At the start undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP by way of updates of the current year, the Committee received confirmation provided at Audit Committee meetings and further routine that all new hedging instruments entered into by the Group discussions between the Committee Chair, company finance would be IAS 39 compliant.
The Committee confirmed by representatives, the Group Internal Audit Manager and the way of discussions with management that the required senior representatives of Ernst & Young LLP.
hedging documentation is in place, including prospective and retrospective effectiveness testing.
The Committee When the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the satisfied itself that the work undertaken by management was external audit process and the quality of the audit work appropriate and agreed with the conclusions reached and throughout the year it considers: accounting entries and disclosures made.
The Committee any issues arising from the prior year audit: also reviewed the ongoing use of the adjusted profit before the proposed audit plan including the identification tax alternative performance measure, which excludes the of risks specific to the Group, audit scope and profit loss arising on hedging instruments entered into in materiality thresholds: previous years that do not qualify for hedge accounting, and concluded that this alternative performance measure should the delivery of the audit in line with the plan: be retained in order to provide stakeholders with a better the communication of matters arising during the audit to measure of underlying performance: one which is consistent the Committee: with managements own assessment of performance.
meetings with the external auditor without management The Committee then reviewed the judgements made in being present: relation to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes the independence and objectivity of the auditor: and liabilities, with particular focus on the discount rate, inflation feedback from executive management.
rate and mortality assumptions along with an assessment of the appropriateness of the application of IFRIC 14.
Independence of external auditor The Committee also considered the disclosures in respect of In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the ongoing discussions between the Company, the trustees the external auditor, the Committee reviews the nature and of the UK pension scheme and The Pensions Regulator in extent of the non-audit services supplied, receiving reports relation to the 2016 recovery plan.
The Committee made on the balance of audit to non-audit fees.
enquiries of management to understand the process undertaken for determining the appropriate actuarial The non-audit services policy reflects the extended list assumptions and to understand the basis for the application of prohibited services as set out in the latest EU audit of IFRIC 14, which was underpinned by an external legal regulation.
There are also specified services which require review of the trust deed.
The Committee satisfied itself that the prior approval of the Group Finance Director and Chair the judgements reached by management were appropriate.
of the Audit Committee before the auditor may be appointed to provide such services.
In addition, there are specified The Committee discussed these issues with the external levels of authorisation to be obtained before the auditor may auditor and was satisfied that its conclusions were be permitted to tender for non-audit services.
consistent with those of the external auditor.
For 2018, the external auditor has provided 567 of nonaudit work in relation to a piece of assurance work in India required under that countrys legislation.
An analysis of fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP is included in note 5 to the Group financial statements.
58 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The processes adopted in relation to the Annual report Risk management and internal controls included the following: The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management processes, overall management of the report was the responsibility with support from Internal Audit and the executive risk of the Group Finance Director and the General Counsel committee, which allows it to maintain a good understanding & Company Secretary who instigated a comprehensive of the business performance and key areas of judgement review of the disclosures and then assigned specific and decision making within the Group.
ownership and responsibility for the individual sections: during the compilation period, regular meetings were The Internal Audit team report and follow up on control held with key contributors from Group Finance, Group and operational weaknesses, and support management in Secretariat, CSR and Corporate Communications, making improvements where required.
Further, an Annual all of whom are primary authors of the Annual report.
Declaration of compliance with internal controls and These meetings ensured that there was appropriate processes is completed by senior management from each linkage between the various sections of the report and subsidiary company.
that reporting was balanced: Internal Audit began using data analytics techniques during an extensive review was undertaken to ensure the current year and will be further increasing their use factual accuracy: from the start of the 2018 19 financial year, thus increasing a qualitative review of the entire Annual report was the work undertaken in the year and complementing the undertaken to ensure that it promotes consistency and regular subsidiary visits.
The Committee determined that balance between the component elements: the Internal Audit function is effective following the review detailed in the key issues and activities section of this report.
at the first of the Committees meetings in July 2018, the Committee reviewed an initial draft of the Annual report, Following a period of strong growth, the Committee during which it probed and tested certain disclosures: commissioned a review of the Group Internal Control at the second of the Committees meetings in July Manual last year to ensure that Renishaws policies exceed 2018, the Committee challenged the fair, balanced and best practice for an organisation of Renishaws size understandable assessment and examined whether and structure.
The review is largely complete and in the appropriate balance and equal prominence had been process of being communicated to subsidiaries.
The Audit given to favourable and unfavourable events: and Committee continue to monitor the progress of the roll out of the Group Internal Control Manual.
following review and comment by both the Committee and the Board, the Annual report was subject to final approval During the year, the Committee commissioned a review by the Board.
of the Companys procedures in relation to training and The Committee was satisfied with the process undertaken development of its employees, in particular in the areas of in preparing the Annual report.
Following discussions at its risk management and compliance, to include a review of July 2018 meetings, the Committee advised the Board that the Companys procedures to avoid bribery related to the the Annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and activities of the Group.
Following the review, a separate understandable and provides the information necessary Training and Development team has been formed, allowing for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and them to focus solely on this area.
business model of the Company.
Details of risk management and internal controls are set out The directors statement on a fair, balanced and on pages 32, 33 and 53. understandable Annual report is set out on page 53.
Fair, balanced and understandable report and accounts One of the key governance requirements is for the Annual Carol Chesney report to be fair, balanced and understandable and that Chair of the Audit Committee it provides the shareholders with sufficient information 26th July 2018 to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Ensuring that this standard is met requires continuous assessment of the financial reporting issues affecting the Group on a year-round basis in addition to a number of focused exercises that take place during the accounts production process within a strict timeframe.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 59
