72 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Corporate Governance Review Corporate governance compliance and statements Overview The 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code Corporate simplification and structure applied to the Company during the year.
The Board supports On 8 September 2018, the structure of RELX was further the principles of corporate governance set out in the UK Code.
simplified from a dual parent structure to a single parent A revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code structure by way of a merger of RELX PLC the Company and the New Code was published by the Financial Reporting RELX NV the Simplification.
Under the terms of the Council in July 2018, which applied to the Company from Simplification, RELX NV shareholders received one share in the 1 January 2019.
Company in exchange for each RELX NV share owned.
As a result The Company, which has its primary listing on the main of the Simplification, the Company is now the sole parent company market of the London Stock Exchange, has complied with of the Group, and its shares are traded through its primary the provisions of the UK Code throughout the year ended listing on the London Stock Exchange and its secondary listing 31 December 2018. on Euronext Amsterdam, with its securities also traded on the New York Stock Exchange under its American Depositary A description of how the Company has applied the main Share Programme.
principles of the UK Code is set out on pages 73 to 82.
The Board of the Company has implemented standards of A copy of the UK Code can be found on the FRC website at corporate governance and disclosure policies applicable to a UK www.
uk incorporated company, with listings in London, Amsterdam and New York.
The Company has already elected the United Kingdom The Directors of the Company are required by the UK Code to as its EU home member state, and therefore, following the make certain statements in relation to provisions contained in Simplification, most of its regulatory and corporate governancethe UK Code.
The locations of those statements are as follows: related obligations arise in the UK and in the US.
Page 2 to 63 for the Strategic Report explaining the Groups business model and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group Page 60 for confirmation that the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity Page 80 for confirmation that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy Page 82 for an explanation of how the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group, taking into account the Groups current position and its principal risks Page 80 for the statement on the status of the Group as a going concern Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Corporate Governance Review 73 responsibilities have been delegated to four principal committees.
Application of UK Corporate Governance These are set out within the Terms of Reference for each Code Principles Committee, which were updated during the year, to reflect that, from the time of completion of the Simplification, the former Dutch entity RELX NV ceased to exist, and to reflect the increased remit Leadership of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees, as prescribed by the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code.
The Role of the Board and its Committees current Terms of Reference for each Committee can be found on The Board is responsible for providing leadership and our website at www.
The membership and activities stewardship of the Group within a framework of appropriate of these Committees are described on pages 83, 85 and 106. and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed, and then There are additionally a number of approved delegated authorities managed in a manner which promotes the success of the Group.
in place from the Board to the Chief Executive Officer and other The Board is also responsible for overseeing the Groups strategy senior executives which relate principally to the day-to-day and performance, financial reporting, internal control and management of the business.
risk management framework, and corporate governance processes.
It is also ultimately accountable to shareholders for The executive leadership team supports the Chief Executive the long-term performance of the business and the delivery Officer in the performance of his duties.
Chairman and Chief Executive division of responsibilities In order to facilitate the oversight role that it provides in these There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman, who areas, and to ensure that it retains decision-making power in leads the Board, and the Chief Executive Officer, who is respect of matters which are deemed to be material to the current responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group, which or future financial performance of the Group, the Board has put in are set out in writing and included on page 74.
The table on page place a clear and robust corporate governance framework.
This 74 also illustrates the key responsibilities of the other Directors.
includes a schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the This division of responsibilities, in addition to the Schedule of Board, such as the approval of material acquisitions, major capital Matters Reserved for the Board and Terms of Reference for each expenditure, Group strategy and budgets, the Groups financial Committee, ensures that there are appropriate controls in place to statements and its dividend policy.
In order to allow the Board prevent any individual from having unfettered powers of decision.
appropriate time to focus on these key matters within the constraints of its annual programme, a number of its other Board Committees The Board has established a number of Committees, to which it has delegated certain powers, and which focus on particular matters.
The structure of these Committees and a summary of their key responsibilities are set out below.
Each Committee has its own Chairman who reports back to the Board on its activities.
Details on how these Committees have addressed these responsibilities are set out in pages 83 to 107.
All the Committees have written Terms of Reference, which are available on our website, www.
Board Committees are principally supported by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary, and the Chief Human Resources Officer, although senior managers within the Group are invited to attend meetings where appropriate.
The Boards annual programme and the agendas for the Committees are prepared by their respective Chairs with support from the Company Secretary.
The Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Corporate Governance Responsible for the oversight Responsible for approving the Responsible for keeping under Committee of financial reporting, risk remuneration of the Groups review the composition of the Responsible for reviewing management and internal Executive Directors, the Board and the Board ongoing developments and control policies, and the Chairman, and senior Committees, and the best practice in corporate effectiveness of the internal executives below Board level.
governance, assessing the and external audit processes.
The Committee comprises only The Committee comprises only performance of the Directors, The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors.
and monitoring the structure independent Non-Executive and operation of the Board Directors.
The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors.
Report of the Audit Directors Remuneration Report of the Nominations Committee page 106 Report page 85 Committee page 83 74 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Key roles of the Directors Chairman Chief Financial Officer Provides leadership of the Board, ensuring that it Day-to-day management of the Groups financial affairs functions effectively Responsible for the Groups financial planning, reporting Ensures that all Directors are sufficiently apprised of and analysis matters to make informed judgements, through the Ensures that a robust system of internal control and risk provision of accurate, timely and clear information management is in place Promotes high standards of corporate governance Maintains high-quality reporting of financial and and a Board culture of openness and debate environmental performance internally and externally Sets the agenda and chairs meetings of the Board Supports the Chief Executive Officer in developing and Chairs the Nominations and Corporate Governance implementing strategy Committees Senior Independent Director Facilitates the effective contribution of all of the Directors Leads the Boards annual assessment of the performance Ensures effective dialogue with shareholders of the Chairman Ensures the performance of the Board, its Committees Available to meet with shareholders on matters where and individual Directors is assessed annually usual channels are deemed inappropriate Ensures effective induction and development of Directors Deputises for the Chairman, as necessary Serves as a sounding board for the Chairman and acts as an Chief Executive Officer intermediary between the other Directors, when necessary Day-to-day management of the Group, within the delegated authority limits set by the Board Non-Executive Directors Develops the Groups strategy for consideration and Bring an external perspective and constructively challenge approval by the Board and provide advice to the Executive Directors Ensures that the decisions of the Board are implemented Effectively contribute to the development of strategy Informs and advises the Chairman and Nominations Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting Committee on executive succession planning agreed goals and monitor the delivery of the Groups Leads communication with shareholders strategy Promotes and conducts the affairs of the Company with the Serve as members of Board Committees and chair the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate Audit and Remuneration Committees governance Effectiveness Board composition can be found on page 75.
The Nominations Committee reviews, The membership of the Board remained unchanged throughout on an ongoing basis, the composition of the Board and its the year, and as at the date of the Annual Report was made up Committees to ensure that this balance and diversity remains of the Chairman, two Executive Directors and eight other appropriate, and has concluded that the current composition of Non-Executive Directors, who bring a wide range of skills, the Board allows it to discharge its duties to the Company and experience, industry expertise and professional knowledge to govern the Group effectively.
A summary of the balance and diversity of the skills, Currently, 36% of the Board is made up of women, compared to the gender, length of tenure and nationality of the Board of Directors, Groups target of at least 30%.
which the Nominations Committee and Board considered as important factors when reviewing the composition of the Board, Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Corporate Governance Review 75 Balance of our Board BALANCE OF EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GENDER DIVERSITY Executive: 2 Female: 4 Chairman: 1 Male: 7 Non-Executive: 8 LENGTH OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NATIONALITY OF DIRECTORS Seven to nine years: 1 Swedish: 1 German: 1 Less than three years: 3 Dutch: 2 More than nine years: 2 British: 4 American: 3 Three to six years: 3 Areas of significant skills and expertise of Percentage of the the Non-Executive Directors on the Board Non-Executive Directors Knowledge of corporate governance issues for listed companies 100% Operational experience in the Groups main geographical markets 100% Human resource management and executive remuneration 100% Corporate responsibility 100% Corporate strategy and organisation 100% Marketing and customer relations 78% Financial and organisational audit 78% Executive board experience in a large international listed company 78% Operational experience in the telecommunications and information technology sectors 67% Legal matters 67% Banking, tax and corporate finance 56% Operational experience in the Groups product markets 33% 76 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Key activities of the Board The Board met regularly through the year and, in 2018, held seven scheduled meetings.
There was also one additional meeting held in February 2018, to deal with matters solely related to the Simplification.
The Boards programme ensures that all relevant matters are considered during scheduled meetings.
Additionally, throughout the year, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors present on a regular basis.
In 2018, the Board considered the following: Business and financial Strategy, business and Risk, legal, governance Stakeholders performance functional reviews andregulatory matters Investor relations Reports from the Chief Strategy and business The Groups principal activities including Executive Officer and presentations, including risks and ongoing feedback from investors Chief Financial Officer on two full-day strategy monitoring of risk Dividend declarations the Groups actual and reviews management and and policy forecast operational and internal control Budgets and Annual Share buyback financial performance Strategy Plan 2018-2021 The Groups operating and programme Annual and interim governance principles Updates on major Approval of shareholder financial results acquisitions, investments Board succession and communications, such as Annual review of invested and disposals executive talent the Annual Report, capital management Capital structure and Notices of Meetings, and funding requirements Appointments and the Corporate re-appointments to the Simplification Group tax strategy review Board and appointments Prospectus and Circular Prospects of the Group to Board Committees Review of Corporate and Viability Statement Litigation update Responsibility Programme Reports from the Committee Chairmen on Updates on media the key activities of the relations Boards Committees Assessing customer Matters Reserved for the satisfaction Board and the Terms of Reviewing the Groups Reference for each Board Supply Chain Committee Review of the results of Corporate structure 2018 group-wide simplification employee engagement Modern Slavery Act survey Statement Gender Pay Gap Report General Data Protection Regulation readiness and compliance with data privacy legislation Cyber security Approve updated Group Ethics and Business Conduct Policy The requirements of the New Code and associated action for the Group Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Corporate Governance Review 77 Independence of the Non-Executive Directors Board appointments The Non-Executive Directors play an important role in our The Board may also appoint Directors subject to a maximum corporate governance framework, especially given their upper limit to fill a vacancy at any time, although any Director so responsibility to constructively challenge the Executive Directors appointed shall only hold office until the following Annual General and monitor the performance of management in meeting agreed Meeting of the Company, at which his or her re-election shall be goals and objectives.
In order to perform their role effectively, voted upon by shareholders.
Directors are then required to seek their independence and objectivity are vital.
Through their re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting of membership of the Board and Committees, they also have a the Company, in accordance with the UK Code.
The notice of significant role to play in ensuring the interests of the Executive meeting for the 2019 AGM will set out information on the Directors Directors are aligned with those of the Companys shareholders.
standing for election or re-election, including their biographies.
The Board and each of its Committees complies with the As a general rule, letters of appointment for Non-Executive independence requirements set out in the UK Code.
The Board Directors provide that, subject to annual re-election by reviews the independence of the Non-Executive Directors every shareholders, individuals will serve for an initial period of three year, based on the criteria as set out in the UK Code.
In accordance years, and are typically expected to be available to serve for a with the UK Code, the independence criteria are not applied in second three-year period.
If invited to do so, they may also serve respect of the Chairman after his appointment.
Sir Anthony for a third period of three years.
The Non-Executive Directors Habgood met the independence criteria contained in the UK letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment Corporate Governance Code when he was appointed Chairman required by the Company to fulfil their duties.
The notice period in 2009. applicable to the Non-Executive Directors is one month.
The The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors other than notice period applicable to the Executive Directors is 12 months.
the Chairman whose independence was not assessed to be Details of the terms of appointment and the remuneration of both independent of management and free from any business or other Executive and Non-Executive Directors are set out in the relationship which could materially interfere with their ability to Directors Remuneration Report, on pages 85 to 105. exercise independent judgement.
Although Ben van der Veer has The Company has in place a rigorous procedure for the served as a Non-Executive Director for over nine years, and will appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This involves the not be seeking re-election at the 2019 AGM, the Board does not preparation of a search specification by the Nominations believe that his independence has been compromised by the Committee and the engagement of an external search firm to length of his tenure.
identify and propose candidates based on that specification.
Following a review by the Nominations Committee, the Board Any candidates will initially be interviewed by a number of Board has also noted the changes in external appointments of the members, including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Non-Executive Directors during the year and does not perceive and additionally the Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary.
these to have any impact on their independence or responsibilities The candidates are considered in detail by the Nominations to the Company.
Committee, and a recommendation made to the Board regarding any Director appointment.
The Board then has a further The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to review opportunity to discuss and approve the recommended and authorise situations where a Director has an interest that appointment of any Director.
conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with those of the Group, and further to impose any conditions on that authorisation.
The Board Board and Committee changes has in place formal procedures for managing and authorising There were no changes in Board membership during 2018. actual or potential conflicts of interest.
The changes in the composition of Board Committee membership are set out in the table on page 78.
Succession planning The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the composition In anticipation of Ben van der Veer having served nine years on of the Board and the status of succession plans.
The Board is the Board as of September 2018, a review of the composition of updated annually on senior management succession planning, the Boards Committees was completed by the Nominations and during the year, it received a detailed presentation from Committee.
Following this, the Board accepted a recommendation the Chief Human Resources Officer on the first three tiers of from the Nominations Committee that with effect from 19 April management below the Chief Executive Officer.
Directors also 2018, Adrian Hennah succeed Ben van der Veer as the Chairman of have regular contact with succession candidates for senior the Audit Committee and also with effect from 1 September 2018: and executive management positions.
i Adrian Hennah and Marike van Lier Lels join the Nominations Committee: and ii Ben van der Veer step down from the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
78 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Board induction and development Board information and support The Chairman and the Company Secretary are responsible for All Directors have complete and timely access to the information ensuring that an effective induction programme takes place for required to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
Following appointment and as required, all They have access to the services of the Company Secretary, who Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction, which is is responsible for the accurate and timely flow of information to designed to meet their individual needs based on their knowledge the Board and advising the Board on all corporate governance and experience.
It includes meetings with members of the Groups matters, and ensuring that all Board procedures are followed Executive and Senior Management teams, and visits to the offices correctly.
The Company Secretary attends all of the Board and of the Groups main business areas in order to understand how Committee meetings.
It also includes the provision of a comprehensive briefing pack which contains information on the Groups The Directors also have access to other members of the Groups businesses, as well as other information to assist that Director management, staff and external advisers, and may take in performing their duties.
independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the Companys expense.
Each of the Directors is expected to To ensure that the Directors continually update their skills, attend all meetings of the Board and Committees of which they are knowledge and familiarity with the Group, they attend meetings a member.
in addition to scheduled Board and Committee meetings and participate in site visits.
Additionally, Non-Executive Directors The Nominations Committee assesses the external commitments also have opportunities to meet RELX Business Leaders and of each Board member to ensure that they have the time to other senior executives.
As part of the annual Board evaluation, properly fulfil the responsibilities to RELX which come with that Directors are invited to discuss with the Chairman their training position.
Where a Director is unable to attend a Board or and development needs.
Committee meeting, they are provided with the papers relating to that meeting and are able to discuss issues arising with the respective Chairman and other Board and Committee members.
They are also provided with a copy of the meeting minutes.
Attendance at meetings of the Board and Board Committees The table below shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and the Board Committees during the year.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Committee Corporate 1 Director appointments Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Governance Anthony Habgood Chairman R 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 N C Erik Engstrom 8 8 Nick Luff 8 8 Wolfhart Hauser R N C 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 2 Adrian Hennah A N C 8 8 4 4 1 1 4 4 Board Committee 3 Marike van Lier Lels A N 8 8 4 4 1 1 4 4 C membership key Robert MacLeod R 8 8 4 4 4 4 C Audit A 4 Carol Mills 7 8 4 4 4 4 A C Remuneration R Linda Sanford R C 8 8 4 4 4 4 Nominations N 5 Ben van der Veer A N C 8 8 2 3 3 3 4 4 Corporate Governance C Suzanne Wood A C 8 8 4 4 4 4 Committee Chairman 1 I n addition to the seven scheduled meetings, there was an additional meeting to discuss matters related to the Simplification.
Serving Directors also attended two full-day strategy and business review meetings.
2 Mr Hennah was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 19 April 2018, and a member of the Nominations Committee with effect from 1 September 2018.
3 Ms van Lier Lels was appointed as a member of the Nominations Committee with effect from 1 September 2018.
4 Ms Mills was unable to attend the unscheduled February meeting of the Board, held at short notice to discuss matters related to the Simplification.
She was provided with the papers in advance of the meeting for her review and comment which was provided to the Chairman, and subsequent to the meeting taking place was provided with a copy of the minutes.
5 Mr van der Veer stepped down as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 19 April 2018, and as a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees with effect from 1 September 2018.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Corporate Governance Review 79 Board evaluation Accountability The Directors consider the evaluation of the Board, its Committees Internal control and risk management and members to be an important aspect of corporate governance.
RELX has established internal controls and risk management The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own effectiveness practices that are embedded into the operations of the businesses, and performance, and that of its Committees and individual based on the Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 Directors.
In 2018, the Board undertook an internal evaluation, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the overseen by the Corporate Governance Committee and supported Treadway Commission.
Details of the principal risks facing the by the Company Secretary.
Using questionnaires completed by Group and how these are mitigated are set out on pages 60 to 63. all Directors, the Committee explored key areas including: the performance of the Board: Board composition and succession Additionally, in order to provide reasonable assurance against planning: talent management and executive leadership succession: material inaccuracies or loss, and on the effectiveness of the risk management, corporate governance and compliance: quality systems of internal control and risk management, the Group has of information provided by management: Board Committee adopted the three lines of defence assurance model shown below.
effectiveness: and Board understanding and visibility of the views of the Groups stakeholders, and incorporation of them into the Boards 1st line of defence decision-making process.
The Chairman conducted interviews with Group businesses maintain systems of internal each of the Directors.
The review of the performance of the Chairman control which are appropriate to the nature and was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman was not scale of their activities and address all significant present during the discussion among the Non-Executive Directors strategic, operational, financial and legal relating to his performance.
The conclusions of the review were compliance risks that they face presented and considered at the February 2019 meeting of the Board.
Conclusions of the 2018 Evaluation 2nd line of defence Central functions that are responsible for The evaluation confirmed that, overall, the Directors believe 1 designing policies, 2 introducing and sharing best that the Board and each of its Committees continue to function practice, 3 monitoring and evaluating compliance effectively, are well chaired and receive appropriate levels of with RELX policies and relevant legislation and administrative and advisory support.
The Board is involved in regulation and appropriate remediation key decisions.
It is also adequately engaged in the development and approval of the Groups strategic, financial and business objectives.
The evaluation further confirmed that the Board 3rd line of defence believes it is appropriately involved in assessing performance Internal audit provides independent assurance on against these objectives.
Directors believe that the Board has the effectiveness of the 1st and 2nd lines of defence the right blend of experience, skills and diversity in the context of the challenges currently facing the Group, although they noted that the evolution of the Board and the skills that The Board and Audit Committee individual Directors bring warrant continuing regular review.
The evaluation also focused on the Boards view of how the Group is positioned to address the requirements of the New Note: In addition to the Groups internal controls, the Group is also audited externally.
Code, which apply from 1 January 2019.
Directors expressed The report of the external auditor has been included from pages 113 to 120. their support for a designated Non-Executive Director to serve as the mechanism for the Boards engagement with the The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are required Groups employees, and the appointment of Marike van Lier to be brought to it for decision.
The Board is responsible for the Lels to this role, drawing on her experience fulfilling a similar system of risk management and internal control of the Group and role previously for RELX NV.
The evaluation process confirmed has implemented an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, that the Board believes it has adequate visibility of the views of monitoring and managing the principal risks faced by its its material stakeholders, such as employees, shareholders, businesses.
This process was in place throughout the year ended customers and suppliers and appropriately applies its 31 December 2018, and up to the date of the approval of the Annual understanding of these in its decision making.
An area of focus Report and Financial Statements 2018.
The Board monitors these for the Board in 2019 will be further discussion around its role systems of internal control and risk management and annually in setting and ensuring the maintenance of the Groups culture.
carries out a review of their effectiveness.
All Directors commended the Chairman on his effective RELX has an established framework of procedures and internal leadership of the Board, noting amongst other things that he control, with which the management of each business is required facilitates: i the effective contribution of each NED: and ii to comply.
The Group operates authorisation and approval the development of constructive relationships and processes throughout all of its operations.
Access controls exist communications within the Board.
where processes have been automated to ensure the security of Based on the findings of the review, the Corporate Governance data.
Management information systems have been developed to Committee concluded that the Board and its Committees identify risks and to enable assessment of the effectiveness of the function effectively and collaboratively and with an appropriate systems of internal control.
level of engagement with management.
The Committee also concluded that the performance of each Director continues to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
RELX Operating and Governance Principles System of Internal Control 80 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance against material inaccuracies or loss and have functioned RELX has a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that provides a properly during the year.
In accordance with the Code, the Board guide for achieving its business goals and requires officers and has also considered the Groups long-term viability, following employees to behave in an open, honest, ethical and principled a robust and thorough assessment of its principal risks.
The Code also outlines confidential procedures enabling The resulting Viability Statement is set out on page 82. employees to report any concerns about compliance, or about the Groups financial reporting practice.
The Code is available on our website at www.
Responsibilities in respect of financial Each business area has identified and evaluated its principal risks, the controls in place to manage those risks and the levels of statements residual risk accepted.
Risk management and control procedures The Directors are required to prepare financial statements as at are embedded into the operations of the business and include the the end of each financial period, in accordance with applicable monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to laws and regulations, which give a true and fair view of the state management and Board attention.
of affairs, and of the profit or loss, of the Company and its The principal risks facing RELX businesses are regularly reported subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
They are responsible to and assessed by the Board and Audit Committee.
With the close for maintaining proper accounting records, for safeguarding involvement of business management and central functions, the assets and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect risk management and control procedures ensure that the Group fraud and other irregularities.
is managing its business risks effectively and in a coordinated The Directors are also responsible for selecting suitable manner across the businesses with clarity on the respective accounting policies and applying them on a consistent basis, responsibilities and interdependencies.
Litigation, and other and making judgements and estimates that are prudent and legal and regulatory matters, are managed by legal directors in reasonable.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed the businesses.
and the RELX consolidated financial statements, which are the The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from both responsibility of the Directors of the Company, are prepared using internal and external auditors on internal control and risk accounting policies which comply with International Financial management matters.
In addition, each business area is required, Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting at the end of the financial year, to review the effectiveness of Standards Board and as adopted by the European Union.
Having internal controls and risk management and report its findings taken into account all of the matters considered by the Board and on a detailed basis to the management of RELX.
These reports brought to the attention of the Board, the Directors are satisfied are summarised and, as part of the annual review of effectiveness, that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a submitted to the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the Committee reports to the Board on any significant internal control information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups matters arising.
position and performance, business model and strategy.
Annual review As part of the year-end procedures, the Audit Committee and Going concern Board reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management during the 2018 financial year.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that This included consideration of risk appetite defined as the Groups adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in operational willingness to take on risk for each principal risk.
Risk appetite existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is is based on an assessment of the level of residual risk, taking appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2018 account of inherent risk and mitigation efforts.
The assessment is financial statements.
In reaching these conclusions, the Directors rated, in relation to the Groups objectives for the current level of have had due regard to the Groups financial position as at residual risk, in three broad categories: reduce, accept and willing 31 December 2018, the strong free cash flow of the Group, the to extend.
The level of residual risk which the Group is prepared Groups ability to access capital markets and the principal risks to accept will vary, with a high level of mitigation effort over facing the Group.
operational, financial and compliance risks.
The residual risk level A commentary on the Groups cash flows, financial position and for external and strategic risks may be extended if doing so is in liquidity for the year ended 31 December 2018 is set out in the Chief line with the Groups strategic objectives, values and stakeholder Financial Officers report on pages 54 to 59.
This shows that after interests and if shareholder returns could be increased.
As part taking account of available cash resources and committed bank of the annual review, the Board considered the Groups culture.
facilities that back up short-term borrowings, all of the Groups The objective of these systems of internal control and risk borrowings that mature within the next two years can be covered.
management is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of The Groups policies on liquidity, capital management and failure to achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign exchange provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material and credit exposures are set out on pages 150 to 155.
The principal mis-statement or loss.
The Board has confirmed, subject to the risks facing the Group are set out on pages 60 to 63. above, that as regards financial reporting risks, the respective risk management and control systems provide reasonable assurance Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Corporate Governance Review 81 The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the US certificates investor relations team meet institutional shareholders on a As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 regular basis and the Chairman also makes himself available to and by related rules issued by the US Securities and Exchange major institutions as appropriate.
The interim and annual results Commission the Commission, the Chief Executive Officer and announcements and presentations, together with the trading Chief Financial Officer of the Company certify in the Annual Report updates, other important announcements and corporate governance 2018 on Form 20-F to be filed with the Commission that they are documents concerning the Group, are available on our website.
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls The Board commissions periodic reports on the attitudes and and procedures and that they have: views of the Companys institutional shareholders and the results designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure are presented to the Board.
The Board also receives regular that material information relating to the Group is made known updates from the Head of Investor Relations on the views of to them shareholders through a briefing which is a standing agenda item for all meetings of the Board.
evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures Annual General Meeting based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committee All holders of RELX PLC ordinary shares may attend the and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM in April 2019.
The AGM design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and provides an opportunity for the Board to communicate with any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management individual shareholders, and for shareholders to provide their or other employees who have a significant role in the Groups views on the performance and progress of the Group.
The internal controls Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chairmen of the Board Committees, other Directors and a presented in the Annual Report 2018 on Form 20-F their representative of the external auditors are available to answer conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls questions from shareholders.
The Chief Executive also presents and procedures a review of the key business developments during the year.
The A Disclosure Committee, comprising the Company Secretary and Company offers electronic voting facilities in relation to proxy other senior managers of the Group, provides assurance to the voting at shareholder meetings.
In line with the UK Code, details of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regarding their proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are given Section 302 certifications.
at the AGM and are posted on our website following the AGM.
The notice of meeting for the 2019 AGM will set out in full the Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the resolutions for consideration by shareholders, together with Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company explanatory notes and information on the Directors standing to certify in the Annual Report 2018 on Form 20-F that they are for election or re-election.
responsible for maintaining adequate internal control structures and procedures for financial reporting and to conduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
The conclusions of the assessment of internal control structures and financial reporting procedures, which are unqualified, are presented in the Annual Report 2018 on Form 20-F.
Shareholder engagement The Board values regular dialogue with the Companys shareholders.
The Company reports to its shareholders through the publication of the interim and full-year reports, following which presentations are made by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer on the Groups business, and these are simultaneously webcast.
In addition, quarterly trading updates are provided ahead of the Annual General Meeting and towards the end of the financial year, and a conference call with investors was held following the third-quarter trading update for 2018.
In addition, a teach-in focused on developments in the Risk & Business Analytics business was held for analysts and investors in November 2018, which was also made available on our website at www.
82 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Viability statement The UK Corporate Governance Code requires Directors to Technological failure of our electronic platforms and networks assess the prospects of the Group over a period significantly Failure of our cyber security measures resulting in longer than twelve months and to state whether they have a unauthorised access to our systems and breach of data privacy reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period Detailed descriptions of all principal risks and mitigations are on of their assessment.
Assessing the Groups Prospects Assessing the Groups Viability The Group develops information-based analytics and decision The three-year strategy plan for our businesses includes tools for professional and business customers in the Scientific, managements assessment of the anticipated operational risks Technical &Medical, Risk and Business Analytics, Legal and affecting the business and assumes that current economic Exhibitions sectors.
The Group has leading positions in long-term conditions broadly persist, financing will be available on similar growth markets, deep customer understanding and has terms to those negotiated recently and interest rates will follow developed innovative solutions that often account for about 1% of market expectations.
Management then considers the viability our customers cost base but can have a significant and positive of the business should unexpected events, linked to the principal impact on the economics of the remaining 99%.
To first make the assessment, the financial impact transitioned the business from print to digital, the Group is of each principal risk on revenue and cashflow is estimated.
systematically migrating its information solutions toward higher Owing to the diversified nature of the Group, no individual risk value-add decision tools, adding broader data sets, embedding was estimated to have an impact close to the amount, broadly more sophisticated analytics and leveraging more powerful estimated at one third of total Group cashflow, necessary for technology.
We believe this evolution is improving our business a breach of the covenant in the Groups $3.0bn committed profile and positions the Group for future business success.
The Groups prospects are assessed through the annual strategy The assessment then considers various stress-test scenarios planning process.
This process includes a review of assumptions under which multiple risks occur simultaneously accompanied made and assesses each business areas longer-term plan.
The by an inability to access the debt capital markets to refinance resulting three-year strategy plan forms the basis for Group and scheduled liabilities as they become due, together with an increase divisional targets and in-year budgets.
Objectives are set with in interest rates much faster than currently expected.
The consideration given to the economic and regulatory environment, resulting analysis, which assumes share buybacks are suspended and to customer trends, as well as incorporating risks and but dividends continue uninterrupted, then considers the impact opportunities.
The most recent three-year strategy business plan on available headroom and whether any scenario results in was agreed by the Directors in September 2018. breaching the covenant in the committed bank facility.
In assessing the Groups prospects, our current position and The worst-case stress case modelled a combination of the principal risks are considered as follows: following risks: a the inability to use certain third-party data resources: b an adverse impact on revenue from a shift away Current position and business model from the paid subscription model: and c having our systems Diversified business in terms of sectors, markets, customers, disrupted by a cyber security event.
The analysis concluded that geographies and products and services so that we are not even with the simultaneous occurrence of these three risks, no dependent on any one business, customer, region or product access to the debt capital markets and a sharply rising interest High percentage of subscription and recurring revenue rate environment, the Group would still have sufficient funds to streams trade, settle its liabilities as they come due and remain compliant with the covenant in its committed bank facility, whilst still paying Leading positions in long-term global growth markets forecast dividends.
Low working capital and capital investment requirements In addition to scenario modelling, the Directors bi-annually review leading to high levels of cash generation the Groups principal risks, assess the likelihood and impact of each risk together with the effectiveness of mitigating controls, Clear strategy focused on organic growth supplemented by selective acquisitions in higher growth areas and consider emerging risks.
The Directors also receive regular updates from management on treasury, tax, acquisitions and Continued development of increasingly sophisticated divestments, and significant risk areas including information information-based analytics and decision tools security, technology and legal and regulatory matters.
Finally, separate from the annual strategy plan, the Directors periodically Expansion into higher growth adjacencies and geographies receive updates from business area management on their primarily through organic investment augmented with operations, prospects and risks.
Whilst these reviews and selective acquisitions discussions naturally focus more closely on the quantifiable risks Further details on our strategy and 2018 progress are on pages 4 facing the business within the three-year planning period, they and 5. also cover longer-term risks.
Principal risks related to our business model As a result of stress-testing the three-year strategy plan, Challenges to the intellectual property rights of content supported by regular reviews of risk during the year, the Directors embedded in our products and services confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue its operations and meet its liabilities as they fall Disruption or loss of data sources that our businesses rely on due over the next three years and are not aware of any longer-term due to regulation or other reasons operational or strategic risks that would result in a different Changes to the paid subscription model for our primary outcome from the three-year review.
research business within Scientific, Technical & Medical
