Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 83 Report of the Nominations Committee This report has been prepared by the Nominations Committee and Activities of the Committee has been approved by the Board.
During the year, the Committee met four times and its main areas of focus were: the re-appointment of Sir Anthony Habgood as Chairman at the Membership conclusion of his specified term of office The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors.
The the re-appointments of Marike van Lier Lels, Linda Sanford and members of the Committee who served during the year were: Ben van der Veer as Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion Sir Anthony Habgood Committee Chairman of their specified terms of office Wolfhart Hauser the continued independence of Ben van der Veer as a Director following his nine years of service, with reference to guidance Ben van der Veer until 1 September 2018 provided under the UK Corporate Governance Code Adrian Hennah from 1 September 2018 a review of the composition of the Audit and Nomination Marike van Lier Lels from 1 September 2018 Committees resulting in the following changes: Ben van der Veer stepped down as Chairman and member of the Audit Committee and stepped down as a member of the Nomination Committee: Adrian Hennah was appointed as the Chairman Responsibilities of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are Committee: and Marike van Lier Lels was appointed as to provide assistance to the Board by identifying individuals a member of the Nominations Committee qualified to become Directors and recommending to the Board a review of the Committees Terms of Reference to reflect the the appointment of such individuals.
The responsibilities of the corporate simplification carried out by the Group during the Committee are set out in written Terms of Reference available year, and the increased remit of the Committee proposed by at www.
com and include: the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code New Code to keep under review the size and composition of the Board succession planning for Non-Executive Directors to develop and agree the specification for the recruitment the recommendation to the Board of the suitability of Directors of new Directors external non-executive director appointments to procure the recruitment of new Directors a review of the provisions of the New Code impacting Board appointments and diversity to recommend to the Board the appointment of candidates as RELX PLC Directors to recommend Directors to serve on the Committees of the Board, having regard to the criteria for service on each Committee as set out in the Terms of Reference for such Committees and to recommend members to serve as the Chair of those Committees to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of his her specified term of office and the election or re-election of Directors at the AGM to review and make recommendations to the Board in relation to any Directors actual or potential conflicts of interest 84 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Composition and diversity of the Board The Committee also considered the continued appointment of the The Committee seeks to ensure that the Board and its Chairman, in light of the New Code provision applicable from 2019 Committees comprise an appropriate balance of skills, relating to length of tenure for that position, and noting that Sir experience, independence, knowledge of the Groups businesses, Anthony Habgood had served as a Non-Executive Director since 1 June 2009.
In its deliberations the Committee noted that the and diversity, including gender, that enable them to execute their corporate simplification involving the cross-border merger of responsibilities.
In light of Ben van der Veer stepping down as a RELX NV into RELX PLC, with the Company becoming the sole Non-Executive Director at the 2019 AGM, the Committee parent company of the Group, had completed in the third quarter of considered succession planning for the Board.
The Committee felt that continuity of Board leadership under ongoing evolution of the composition of the Board, the Committee our current experienced Chairman is important for a period of deemed that it would be desirable to appoint to the Board an time following the merger while the new single parent company additional Non-Executive Director with significant executive and governance structure is established and embedded.
Having been public company experience.
deeply involved in all aspects of the merger the Committee felt that The Committee put together a specification for candidates, and the Chairman brings a unique ability to oversee its implementation.
engaged the independent global search and leadership advisory The Committee further took into account the Chairmans strong firm, Russell Reynolds which has no other connection to RELX, leadership of the Board highlighted in recent Board evaluations, to carry out the search for a new Non-Executive Director.
and also the respect and support that he had from the Companys Following a rigorous process of assessments and interviews, the shareholders.
Committee recommended to the Board that Andrew Sukawaty be appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
The Board accepted this Given these circumstances, the Committee recommended to the recommendation and therefore he will be put forward for election Board that it would not be in the best interests of the Company or by shareholders as a Director with effect from the 2019 AGM.
its shareholders for there to be a change in Chairman at this time notwithstanding the New Code provision, provided no The policy applied by the Board in respect of its diversity replicates unforeseen circumstances arose, and that the position would be that applied across RELX.
The Board, and the Group more widely, reviewed after 2019 by the Committee.
The Board supported and are committed to a diverse workforce and an environment that approved the Committees recommendation.
respects individuals and their contributions, regardless of gender, The charts on page 75 illustrate in more detail the composition race or other characteristics, and to ensure the implementation of of the Board.
The Committee takes the policy into consideration when discussing the composition of the Board and Succession planning its Committees, and any appointments or changes to them, and In light of the New Code, the Committee recommended to the this helps the Committee ensure that there is an appropriate Board that its remit should be widened to include monitoring and balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the reviewing succession planning for senior management positions Group, and diversity including gender, background and nationality.
This was previously undertaken by the Board, The results of the application of the policy can be found within the but will now be undertaken principally by the Committee, with Balance of our Board section set out on page 75. detailed reports being provided to the Board from time to time to The Committee recognises the benefits that diversity on the Board enable it to maintain appropriate levels of oversight in this area.
can bring and will continue to monitor developments in relation to Board diversity.
Details of the Groups approach to diversity and Conflicts of interest inclusion more generally in its workforce can be found on page 47.
During the year, the Committee monitored Directors conflicts of interest in respect of their external appointments, and undertook an annual review of these.
No actual conflicts were identified.
However, situations were identified which could potentially give rise to a conflict of interest, and the Board authorised those situations and put in place appropriate procedures to manage any potential conflicts at the recommendation of the Committee.
More information on conflicts of interest can be found in the Directors Report on page 110.
Board and Committees Evaluation The Committee reviewed the results of the evaluation of the effectiveness and performance of the Board, their Committees and the individual Directors, which had been overseen by the Corporate Governance Committee.
Details of the 2018 Board evaluation can be found on page 79.
