The Board fully supports the principles of thereby ensuring that no individual or group Director Board meetings good corporate governance.
This report, dominates the decision-making process.
Nontogether with the Directors Remuneration executive directors are not eligible to participate Report on pages 92 to 107, explains how in any of the Companys share option or Colin Matthews 11 11 Chairman the Group has applied and complied fully pension schemes.
The Chairman also meets with the provisions of the UK Corporate and communicates regularly with the nonAllard Castelein 10 11 Governance Code in force for the year to 31 executive directors without the presence of the March 2018. executive directors.
Peter Dilnot 11 11 Jacques Petry 10 11 The Board Following the retirement of Eric van Amerongen The Board comprises the Chairman, a further at last years AGM, Jacques Petry was appointed Stephen Riley 3 4 five independent non-executive directors, the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Luc Sterckx 7 7 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Independent Director will be available to Officer.
shareholders should they have concerns Eric van Amerongen 4 4 which contact through the normal channels The Chairman, who is independent, has primary of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Toby Woolrych 11 11 responsibility for running the Board.
The Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or where Marina Wyatt 11 11 Executive Officer is responsible for the operations such contact is inappropriate.
of the Group and for the development of strategic Bracketed figures indicate maximum potential attendance The table on the right details the number of plans and initiatives for consideration by the of each director.
Eric van Amerongen and Stephen Riley retired from the Board on 13 July 2017.
Luc Sterckx was formal Board meetings held in the year and the Board.
The formal division of responsibilities appointed to the Board on 1 September 2017.
Jolande attendance record of each director.
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Sap was appointed to the Board from the start of the new financial year on 1 April 2018.
Officer has been agreed by the Board and The calendar of meetings of the Board and its documented, a copy of which is available on the committees for 2017 18 is shown below.
Board governance The Board is provided with appropriate The non-executive directors bring a wide range There is a formal schedule of matters reserved information in a timely manner to enable it to of experience to the Group and are considered specifically for the Boards decision.
These discharge its duties effectively.
All directors have by the Board to be independent of management include approval of financial statements, access to the Company Secretary, whose role and free from any business or other relationship strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, includes ensuring that Board procedures and which could materially interfere with the exercise capital projects over defined limits, annual regulations are followed.
In addition, directors of their independent judgement.
budgets and new borrowing facilities.
The are entitled, if necessary, to seek independent Board meets regularly, having met 11 times professional advice in connection with their The non-executive directors make a significant during the year.
duties at the Companys expense.
contribution to the functioning of the Board, THE CALENDAR OF MEETINGS OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES FOR 2017 18 April May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Shareholder AGM In addition, 16 duly authorised Board Committee meetings, comprising at least two directors, were held during the year.
These were primarily in connection with authorising the allotment of shares under employee share plans.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 83 | GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In recognition of the importance of their at different Group locations in order to review The Committee and the Board continue local operations, with a focus on health and stewardship responsibilities, the first standing to closely monitor all aspects of diversity safety during site visits.
item of business at every scheduled Board in recruitment and promotions across the meeting is the consideration of the Safety, workforce.
Diversity Health, Environment and Quality report.
Other The Committee at the current time has not regular reports include those from the Chief Statistical employment data for the Group can determined to set a specific female Board Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility member quota.
However, the Committee covering business performance, markets and Report which will be available on the Renewi recognises both the Lord Davies and Hamptoncompetition, investor and analyst updates as website from July 2018.
Further summary Alexander Reviews on female representation well as progress against strategic objectives details, in addition to those shown below at Board level, including the recommendation and capital expenditure projects.
including those on gender pay gap reporting, that 33% of FTSE350 Board positions should can also be found in the People section on be held by women by 2020.
Appointments to All directors are required to notify the Company page 64. the Board and throughout the Group continue on an ongoing basis of any other commitments to be based on the diversity of contribution and, through the Company Secretary, there Audit Committee and required competencies, irrespective of are procedures for ensuring that the Boards The Audit Committee met four times in the gender, age, nationality or any other personal powers for authorising directors conflicts of year and is formally constituted with written characteristic.
terms of reference which are available on the Groups website.
The Committee is solely The work of the Board is further supported by comprised of non-executive directors: Marina three formal Committees Audit, Remuneration Wyatt who chairs the Committee, Jacques and Nomination.
In addition, while not a Petry, Allard Castelein and, since 1 September Committee with specific powers of its own GENDER DIVERSITY 2017, by Luc Sterckx.
Eric van Amerongen and delegated by the Board, the Chief Executive Stephen Riley were also members until their Officer is assisted in the performance of his retirement from the Board on 13 July 2017.
Female Male Total duties by the Executive Committee.
This Committee meets monthly and comprises As required under the UK Corporate Board 2 25% 6 75% 8 the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Governance Code, Marina Wyatt has current Officer, the Divisional Managing Directors and and relevant financial experience.
She is a Executive 2 18% 9 82% 11 Corporate Function Directors.
In addition, there Committee chartered accountant and currently holds are three main specialist committees covering: the position of Chief Financial Officer at UBM 1,203 6,204 Group 7,407 Risk, SHEQ and CSR.
In addition, the Board consider that the 16% 84% Audit Committee as a whole has competence In reviewing Renewis overall corporate relevant to the waste-to-product sector.
governance arrangements, the Board BOARD BALANCE continues to give due consideration to The Chairman, the executive directors and balancing the interests of customers, representatives from the external auditors EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2 shareholders, employees and the wider  LLP are regularly NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 6 communities in which Renewi operates.
The Committee also has access to the external auditors Board induction and professional advice without the presence of the executive development directors.
On appointment, directors are given an introduction to the Groups operations, The Audit Committee Report on pages 86 to 89 including visits to principal sites and meetings sets out the role of the Committee and its main BOARD DIVERSITY with operational management.
FEMALE 2 Specific training requirements of directors Remuneration Committee MALE 6 are met either directly or by the Company The Remuneration Committee met three times through legal regulatory updates.
Nonin the year and is formally constituted with executive directors also have access to written terms of reference which are available  non-executive on the Groups website.
The Committee is database and course programme.
There is a solely comprised of non-executive directors: rolling programme of holding Board meetings Allard Castelein, Colin Matthews, Jacques For investors: www.
com 84 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD CONTINUE TO BE BASED ON THE DIVERSITY OF CONTRIBUTION Petry, Marina Wyatt and, since 1 September Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee Report on pages 2017 and 1 April 2018, by Luc Sterckx and The Nomination Committee met four times 90 to 91 sets out the role of the Committee in Jolande Sap respectively.
Eric van Amerongen in the year and is formally constituted with further detail and its main activities during chaired the Committee and Stephen Riley written terms of reference which are available the year.
was also a member until their retirement from on the Groups website.
The Committee is the Board on 13 July 2017.
The Committee, chaired by Colin Matthews and is comprised Other information which is chaired by Allard Castelein, formulates solely of non-executive directors: Jacques Other information, necessary to fulfil the the Companys Remuneration Policy and Petry, Marina Wyatt, Allard Castelein and since requirements of the Corporate Governance the individual remuneration packages for 1 September 2017 and 1 April 2018, by Luc Statement, relating to the Companys share executive directors.
The Committee also Sterckx and Jolande Sap respectively.
Eric capital structure and the appointment and determines the remuneration of the Groups van Amerongen and Stephen Riley were also powers of the directors, can be found in the senior management and that of the Chairman.
members until their retirement from the Board Other Disclosures section on pages 108 to 110. on 13 July 2017.
The Committee recommends the remuneration of the non-executive directors The Committee is responsible for making for determination by the Board.
In exercising recommendations to the Board on the its responsibilities, the Committee has access appointment of Directors and succession to professional advice, both internally and planning.
It also reviews organisation and externally, and may consult the Chief Executive resourcing plans for the purpose of providing Officer about its proposals.
The Directors assurance that appropriate processes are Remuneration Report on pages 92 to 107 in place to ensure a sufficient supply of contains particulars of Directors remuneration competent executive and senior management.
and their interests in the Companys shares.
MEETING ATTENDANCE Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Director Director Director Marina Wyatt Chair 4 4 Eric van Amerongen Chair 1 1 Colin Matthews Chair 4 4 Allard Castelein 3 4 Allard Castelein Chair 2 3 Allard Castelein 4 4 Jacques Petry 4 4 Jacques Petry 4 4 Colin Matthews 3 3 Stephen Riley 2 2 Jacques Petry 3 3 Stephen Riley 1 2 Luc Sterckx 2 2 Stephen Riley 1 1 Luc Sterckx 2 2 Eric van Amerongen 2 2 Luc Sterckx 2 2 Eric van Amerongen 2 2 Marina Wyatt 2 3 Marina Wyatt 4 4 Bracketed figures indicate maximum potential attendance of each director.
Eric van Amerongen and Stephen Riley retired from the Board on 13 July 2017 following which Allard Castelein succeeded Eric van Amerongen as chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Luc Sterckx was appointed to the Board and all three Committees on 1 September 2017.
Jolande Sap was appointed to the Board and the Nomination and Remuneration Committees from the start of the new financial year on 1 April 2018.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 85
