GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Audit MARINA WYATT Chair of the Committee Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 Audit Committee At their meetings in May 2017, the Committee considered corporate governance compliance, taxation and the 2017 financial statements.
The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its The November meeting was concerned corporate governance responsibilities relating to the Groups corporate reporting, primarily with the interim results, reviews of risk management systems and internal controls and any other matters referred to it life extending maintenance, non-trading and by the Board.
This covers: exceptional items policy and new accounting standards for revenues and leases.
The ` Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements including annual and half March 2018 meeting considered Group Risk yearly reports Management Strategy and Policy, preparation of the 2018 financial statements and all other ` Reviewing and challenging the consistency of and changes to significant year end accounting matters and treatments accounting policies, the methods used to account for significant or unusual and the external audit plan.
transactions and appropriate estimates and judgements During the year the Committee was again ` Keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness of internal financial responsible for reviewing the approach controls and internal control and risk management systems and framework to assist the Board in their preparation of the Viability Statement as required by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate ` Reviewing the adequacy of procedures for detecting fraud and ensuring that Governance Code.
This included reviewing appropriate arrangements are in place to allow for company employees to raise the process and the selection of principal risks concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or to be subject to stress testing and scenario other matters modelling.
The Groups Viability Statement on page 79 confirms the Boards reasonable ` Monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the expectation that the Company and the Group context of the overall risk management system will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year ` The appointment, terms of engagement, effectiveness, objectivity and period ending 31 March 2021. independence of the external auditors and the nature and scope of the audit Accounting policies and issues ` The development and implementation of policy on the engagement of the In carrying out its duties, the Committee external auditor to supply non-audit services reviewed and made recommendations in respect of the full year and interim financial Committee Chair: statements.
There was particular focus Marina Wyatt on the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices, material Committee Members: areas in which significant judgements have Allard Castelein, Jacques Petry, Luc Sterckx appointed 1 September 2017 been applied and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial Terms of Reference: and governance reporting requirements.
com audit significant accounting issues considered by the Committee during the year were: Accounting for onerous contracts in UK Municipal.
Given the long-term nature of these contracts, these provisions are judgemental.
Detailed papers setting out For investors: www.
com 86 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accounting for various tax related matters THE COMMITTEE IS SATISFIED THAT including the level of provisions.
The most significant judgements in 2017 18 related THE APPROPRIATE DISCLOSURES IN to the recognition of deferred tax assets and the impact of recently communicated RELATION TO KEY JUDGEMENTS AND corporation tax changes in Belgium and the ESTIMATES HAVE BEEN INCLUDED IN Netherlands.
The Committee received verbal and written reports from senior management THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and the external auditors and the balances recognised at March 2018 were considered appropriate.
It was agreed that the impact of the recently enacted corporation tax rates in Belgium, which reduced the carrying value of deferred tax liabilities, was of a sufficient size that it should be recorded as an exceptional expected future cash flows and assumptions reportable segments and the annual review rather than an underlying tax credit.
on a contract by contract basis have been has confirmed no impairments.
The goodwill reviewed and discussed with management.
note in the financial statements includes Acquisition accounting.
In the 12 month Following this process, the Committee has appropriate disclosures for any reasonably period following the acquisition of VGG on concluded that an appropriate level of possible changes in assumptions.
28 February 2017, the fair value of the assets provisions has been reflected in the balance and liabilities acquired has been revisited.
Revenue recognition and the impact of This included the completion of the external the new revenue standard from 1 April market appraisal for the real estate which Presentation of non-trading and 2018.
A detailed work programme for the was left at book value at the prior year end exceptional items.
The Group discloses nonassessment of the impact of IFRS 15 was along with a final reassessment across all trading and exceptional items separately due concluded during the year.
The Committee other assets and liabilities which resulted to their size or incidence to enable a better has reviewed the papers and discussed this in amendments to onerous contract understanding of performance.
This is a key with management and concluded that the provisions and tax liabilities.
The Committee judgemental area which has been subject to new standard will not have a material impact has reviewed the papers and supporting recent pronouncements on quantum and on revenue recognition in the Group.
As documentation prepared by management presentation from the Financial Reporting stated in section 1 of the financial statements and concluded that the final fair value Council.
Based on a review of the supporting the operating profit will remain unchanged and associated goodwill and acquisition papers and calculations from management, but there will be a relatively minor increase in intangibles is appropriate.
the Committee considers that these items revenue and in cost of sales.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements Landfill and other liability provisioning.
made by management are reasonable and Impairment.
A number of significant Landfill provisions due to their nature the appropriate disclosures in relation to key assumptions have to be made when are judgemental as they are subject to a judgements and estimates have been included preparing cash flow projections including number of factors including changes in legislation and uncertainty over timing of in the financial statements.
long-term growth rates, discount rates and payments.
The acquisition of VGG in the last future profitability.
The Committee has year resulted in a significant increase in the Fair, balanced and understandable reviewed the annual impairment review landfill-related provisions in the Group.
The The Committee has assisted the Board in papers and supporting documentation annual review of provisions has confirmed their consideration as to whether the Annual prepared by management and concluded that the assumptions taken including the Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and that there are no significant impairments this period of liability and discount rates were understandable, such that shareholders are year end for property, plant and equipment.
acceptable and the closing balances were provided with the necessary information to In the year the goodwill arising on the VGG appropriate.
assess the Groups performance, business acquisition has been allocated to the new For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 87 | GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED model and strategy.
Having reviewed the results of the year end internal verification and approval processes at their meeting in May 2018, the Committee was able to confirm this to be the case.
External audit  LLP PwC were appointed as the Companys external auditors by shareholders at the AGM in 1994.
Renewi plc has committed to scheduling a competitive tender process for external audit no later than 2020.
The Committee believes that such a timetable is in the best interests of the Company and its members following on from the transformational merger between Shanks Group plc and Van Gansewinkel Group, as it allows for an appropriate passage of time, post integration, for new operating models and processes to have been embedded before new auditors are then engaged.
The Committee continues to review the performance, effectiveness and independence they provided corporate finance services of the auditors on an annual basis.
PwC A RESOLUTION WILL BE as part of their appointment as reporting rotate their lead audit engagement partner accountant for the capital markets work as a minimum at least every five years, as PUT TO SHAREHOLDERS relating to the VGG merger.
The total audit required by their own rules and by regulatory fees, as disclosed in note 3.2 of the financial bodies.
Rotation ensures a fresh look without AT THE FORTHCOMING statements, amounted to 1.3m 2017: 1.2m.
The AGM PROPOSING PWCS rotation of lead audit partners, other partners A resolution will be put to shareholders at including specialist partners and senior REAPPOINTMENT AS the forthcoming AGM proposing PwCs reengagement personnel is reviewed on a appointment as Group auditors.
regular basis by the lead audit engagement GROUP AUDITORS partner in consultation with the Committee.
As part of the external audit process, the PwCs rotation rules require the lead audit Committee discusses and agrees the scope of partner and key partners involved in the the audit which is based around a structured audit to rotate every five years, and other aggregate limit of 50% of the prior years methodology to help ensure quality and rigour partners and senior staff members every audit fee.
In exceptional circumstances, this as well as regulatory compliance.
Accordingly, the Audit limit may be exceeded with the approval of audit process was based on PwCs acceptance Committee confirms that the Company is in the Board.
and independence procedures reflecting their compliance with the provisions of the Statutory understanding of the business and focusing on Audit Services for Large Companies Market In determining whether or not to engage scoped areas determined to be of highest risk.
Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive the external auditor to provide any nonTender Processes and Audit Committee audit services, consideration will be given During the year, tax and other professional Responsibilities Order 2014. to whether this would create a threat to services have also been provided to the Group their independence.
Similarly, the external by the audit firms KPMG, Deloitte and EY.
The Committees responsibility to monitor auditor will not be permitted to undertake any and review the objectivity and independence advocacy role for the Group such that their Internal audit of the external auditor is supported by a objectivity may be compromised.
The external The internal audit function is an independent non-audit services policy.
Specified services auditor may not provide services involving the and objective function which aims to may be provided by the external auditor preparation of accounting records or financial improve Renewis overall control framework subject to a competitive bid process other statements, the design, implementation and and evaluate and improve the design and than in situations where it is determined by operation of financial information systems, effectiveness of control processes.
Reviews the Committee, that the work is closely related to the audit or when a significant benefit can actuarial and internal control functions or the on financial processes and cycles are carried be obtained from work previously conducted management of internal audits.
out and investigation activities are performed by the external auditor.
While the CFO may on control failures to identify root cause and approve any new engagement up to the During the year 34,000 of non-audit services provide recommendations for resolution and value of 25,000, anything in excess requires were provided by PwC, which is significantly prevention.
The Committee annually reviews Committee approval up to an agreed annual down on the prior year spend of 3.2m when and approves the internal audit charter, For investors: www.
com 88 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Specifically, the Boards review included ` Prompt review by the Committee of any defining the role and mandate of internal consideration of changes in the risk universe fraudulent activity or whistle-blowing reports audit.
The Committee monitors and reviews and the Groups ability to respond to these with appropriate rectifying action.
the effectiveness of its work and approves its through its review of business risk registers annual plan.
controls and improvement action plans.
It Where weaknesses in the internal control also reviewed the six-monthly certification system have been identified through the Consistent with previous years, internal audit by divisional management to ensure that monitoring processes outlined above, plans for services from suitably qualified external providers appropriate internal controls are in place as strengthening them are put in place and action were also engaged during the year.
KPMG well as reports by internal audit and external plans regularly monitored until complete.
The performed a control review which covered the auditors.
Board confirms that no material weaknesses consolidation process across Renewi.
were identified during the year and therefore no The main elements of the internal control remedial action is required in relation to them.
The detailed findings from all reviews framework which contribute towards its were presented to and considered by the continuous monitoring are as follows: Financial reporting Committee.
Any necessary actions, including In addition to the general risk management and improvements from both the internal and ` A defined schedule of matters for decision internal control processes described above, external reviews, are acted upon by local by the Board: the Group has implemented internal controls divisional teams with regular follow-up at specific to the financial reporting process and monthly business review meetings.
` A Group finance manual setting out the preparation of the annual consolidated financial and accounting policies, minimum financial statements.
The main control aspects Accountability and audit internal financial control standards and the are as follows: The responsibilities of the directors and the delegation of authority matrix over items auditors in relation to the financial statements such as capital expenditure, pricing strategy ` Formal written financial policies and are set out on pages 111 to 120. and contract authorisation: procedures applicable to all business units: Risk management ` A comprehensive planning and budgeting ` A detailed reporting calendar including the The Group risk management framework, major exercise.
Performance is measured submission of detailed monthly accounts risks and the steps taken to manage these risks monthly against plan and prior year results for each business unit in addition to the year are outlined on pages 70 to 79. and explanations sought for significant end and interim reporting process: variances.
Key performance indicators are Internal control responsibility also extensively used to help management ` Detailed management review to Board level The system of internal control is based on a of the business and to provide early warning of both monthly management accounts and continuous process of identifying, evaluating of potential additional risk factors: year end and interim accounts: and managing risks including the risk management processes outlined on pages ` Monthly meetings and visits to key ` Consideration by the Board of whether 70 to 79.
The Board of directors has overall operating locations by the executive the Annual Report is fair, balanced and responsibility for the Groups system of internal directors and most senior managers to understandable: control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The discuss performance and plans: Board recognises that internal control systems ` Bi-annual certification by divisional are designed to manage rather than eliminate ` Appointment and retention of appropriately managing and finance directors and the risk of failure to achieve business objectives experienced and qualified staff to help executive directors on compliance with and can therefore only provide reasonable achieve business objectives: appropriate policies and accuracy of and not absolute assurance against material financial information: and misstatements, losses and the breach of laws ` An annual risk-based internal audit plan and regulations.
Summaries of ` The Committee receives regular reports from audit findings and the status of action plans the Group Tax Manager on the Groups tax Annual assessment of the effectiveness to remedy significant failings are discussed policy, tax management and compliance.
of the risk management and internal at Group Board and Committee meetings on control systems a regular basis: Anti-bribery and corruption In addition to the Boards ongoing internal Legacy Shanks and VGG whistle-blowing control monitoring process, it has also ` A range of quality assurance, safety and facilities continued to be in place throughout conducted an annual effectiveness review of environmental management systems are the year, providing 24 7 confidential reporting.
the Groups risk management and internal in use across the Group.
Where appropriate In the course of 2018 these will be harmonised control systems in compliance with provision these are independently certified to under the existing Integrity Management C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code internationally recognised standards and framework as part of the implementation of a and Turnbull guidance.
This covered risk management systems and all significant subject to regular independent auditing: new Renewi Code of Conduct and Reporting material controls including financial, and Investigation Protocol.
` A minimum of three scheduled Committee meetings each year, to consider all key aspects of the risk management and internal control systems: and For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 89
