106 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Report of the Audit Committee This report has been prepared by the Audit Committee of Committee meetings RELX PLC and has been approved by the Board.
It provides The Committee met four times during 2018.
The Audit Committee an overview of the membership, responsibilities and activities meetings are typically attended by the RELX Chief Executive of the Committee.
Officer, the RELX Chief Financial Officer, the RELX Financial Controller, the RELX Chief Legal Officer, the RELX Head of Audit and Risk, and audit partners from the external auditors.
Membership Financial reporting The Committee comprises at least three independent In discharging its responsibilities in respect of the 2018 interim Non-Executive Directors.
The members of the Committee and full-year financial statements, the Committee has: who served during the year were: reviewed and discussed areas of significant judgement in the Adrian Hennah Chairman of the Committee from preparation of the financial statements, including in particular: 19 April 2018 i. the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets the Ben van der Veer Chairman until 19 April 2018, member significant judgements in respect of asset carrying values until 1 September 2018 relate to the assumptions underlying the value in use Marike van Lier Lels calculations including discount rates and long-term growth Carol Mills assumptions.
The Committee received and discussed reports from the RELX Financial Controller on the Suzanne Wood methodology and the basis of the assumptions used: Of the current members of the Committee, Adrian Hennah, a ii.
capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets UK chartered accountant and Suzanne Wood, a US chartered the capitalisation of costs related to the development of new accountant are considered to have significant, recent and products and business infrastructure, together with the useful relevant financial experience.
economic lives applied to the resulting assets, requires the exercise of judgement.
The Committee received reports The Committee as a whole is deemed to have competence from the RELX Financial Controller on the amounts relevant to the sectors in which RELX operates.
capitalised and asset lives selected for major projects: Please see pages 66 and 67 for full profiles of Audit Committee iii.
uncertain tax positions assessing potential liabilities members.
across numerous jurisdictions is complex and requires judgement in making tax determinations.
The Committee received and discussed reports from the RELX Head of Taxation on the potential liabilities identified and Responsibilities judgements applied, including the exceptional tax credit: The main role and responsibility of the Committee is to assist iv.
reviewed the recognition of certain pension scheme the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities regarding: liabilities which are subject to judgement.
The Committee received and discussed reports from the RELX Financial the integrity of the interim and full-year financial Controller on the methodology and the basis of the statements and financial reporting processes: assumptions used: risk management and internal controls, and the reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance effectiveness of the internal auditors: and with applicable accounting standards, including for the the performance of the external auditors and the adoption of IFRS 9, 15 and 16, reviewed other disclosure effectiveness of the external audit process, including requirements and received regular update reports on monitoring the independence and objectivity of Ernst accounting and regulatory developments: & Young.
reviewed the disclosures made in relation to internal control, The Committee reports to the Board on its activities, risk management, the going concern statement and the viability statement.
The Committee received and discussed identifying any matters in respect of which it considers reports from the RELX Head of Audit and Risk and the RELX that action or improvement is needed and making Treasurer on the processes undertaken and assumptions used recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
in formulating these disclosures: The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed considered the calculation and presentation of alternative annually and a copy is published on the RELX website, performance measures including the exclusion of the www.
com exceptional tax credits in the Annual Report and Accounts and results announcement: and considered whether the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee also received detailed written and verbal reports from the external auditors on these matters.
The Committee was satisfied with the explanations provided and conclusions reached.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Report of the Audit Committee 107 Risk management and internal controls The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services With respect to their oversight of risk management and internal that would compromise their independence or violate any controls, the Committee has: professional requirements or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide received and discussed regular reports summarising the non-audit services which do not conflict with their independence, status of the Groups risk management activities, including and where their skills and experience make them a logical identification of emerging risks and actions to mitigate risks, supplier, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
and the findings from internal audits and the status of actions agreed with management.
Areas of focus in 2018 included: The Committee will continue to review the policy on the cyber security: data privacy including compliance with the EU provision of non-audit services in the light of ongoing General Data Protection Regulation : the operational, financial regulatory developments.
and IT control environment: regulatory compliance: business The Committee has, each quarter, reviewed and agreed the continuity and resilience: post acquisition integration: integrity non-audit services provided in 2018, together with the associated of published non-financial data: and continued compliance fees which are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley statements.
The non-audit services provided were in the areas Act relating to the documentation and testing of internal of audit-related activities, such as royalty assurance, and controls over financial reporting: compliance, due diligence and other transaction-related services.
reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2019 and The non-audit fees in 2018 were higher than previous years as monitored execution of the 2018 plan, including progress in a result of work relating to the corporate simplification and respect of recommendations made: increased transaction-related activity.
The fees remain below the reviewed the resources, terms of reference and effectiveness 70% threshold as per the most recent FRC guidance.
of the RELX risk management and internal audit functions: The external auditors have confirmed their independence and received presentations from: the RELX Chief Compliance compliance with the policy on auditor independence to the Officer on the compliance programmes, including the Audit Committee.
operation of the RELX Code of Conduct, training programmes Ernst &Young LLP were first appointed auditor of RELX PLC and whistleblowing arrangements and the RELX Chief Legal for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
The auditor Officer on legal issues and claims: is required to rotate the lead audit partners responsible received updates from the RELX Treasurer on pension for the audit engagements every five years.
The year ended arrangements and funding, treasury policies and risk 31 December 2018 was the first year for the lead engagement management and compliance with treasury policies: partner Hywel Ball.
The Audit Committee confirms that they were received presentations from the RELX Head of Taxation in compliance with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services on tax policies and related matters: for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of received regular updates from the RELX Chief Financial Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Officer on developments within the finance function: and Responsibilities Order 2014 during the financial year ended 31 December 2018. received presentations from chief financial officers of major RELX businesses: and The Committee has conducted its review of the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit process received a report on the major finance IT systems across for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The review was based on a RELX, together with an overview of the control environment.
survey of key stakeholders across RELX, consideration of public reports by regulatory authorities on key Ernst & Young member External audit effectiveness firms and the quality of the auditors reporting to and interaction The Group has a well-established policy on audit effectiveness with the Audit Committee.
Based on this review, the and independence of auditors that sets out amongst other things: Audit Committee was satisfied with the performance of the the responsibilities of the Audit Committee in the selection of auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
auditors to be proposed for appointment or re-appointment and for agreement on the terms of their engagement, scope and Audit Committee effectiveness remuneration: the auditor independence requirements and the The effectiveness of the Audit Committee was reviewed as part policy on the provision of non-audit services: the rotation of audit of the 2018 evaluation of the Board which confirmed that the partners and staff: and the conduct of meetings between the Committee continues to function effectively.
Details of the auditors and the Audit Committee.
The policy is available on evaluation are set out on page 79. the website, www.
com Adrian Hennah Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 February 2019
