Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee has an important role in leading the process for Board appointments and ensuring that the Board has the correct balance of experience, diversity and skills to support our business model and strategy.
Sir David McMurtry, Chair of the Nomination Committee Activities during the year Nomination Committee role The Committee met four times during the year with the andcomposition main issue considered and recommended to the Board The Nomination Committee, which meets on an ad being the appointment of Will Lee as Chief Executive with hoc basis as required, is responsible for reviewing the effect from 1st February 2018, after an internal appointment size, structure and composition of the Board, including process.
This followed the decision by Sir David McMurtry its balance of skills, knowledge and experience, that he wished to step down as Chief Executive, and is part succession planning for the Board and senior of the Companys long-term succession plans.
Will joined executives and nominating candidates for appointment Renishaw in 1996 and following roles as Director and to the Board and for the role of Company Secretary.
General Manager of the Laser and Calibration Products Division and Director and General Manager of the Machine The members of the Nomination Committee are Sir Tool Products Division, was appointed to the Board as David McMurtry Chair, Carol Chesney, Kath Durrant, Group Sales and Marketing Director in 2016.
The Committee Sir David Grant and John Jeans.
With the exception and the Board were unanimous in recommending him as the of Sir David McMurtry, all members of this Committee outstanding candidate for the role of Chief Executive.
Details of attendance at meetings are shown on page 54 of the During the year, the Committee also considered Directors corporate governance report and the terms independent non-executive director succession planning, of reference are published on the Companys website.
the appointment to the Executive Board of Gareth Hankins and Mark Moloney and the recruitment of Mark Noble as General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Boardroom diversity As part of the Boards succession planning, a search Our aim is for the Board to consist of individuals with diverse consultancy, Stonehaven International, was engaged skills and experience that can add value to our Board work to seek appropriate candidates for appointment as and debates.
We also recognise that diversity of gender, age, an additional independent non-executive director.
ethnicity, industry knowledge and education are important.
The Committee received a long list of potential candidates Female representation on the Board is currently at 22%.
and prioritised candidates for interview.
The shortlist for Whilst the Board continues to believe that it is not appropriate interviews was to include candidates having the required to set out any specific targets that may require positive skills and experience and, where possible, at least onediscrimination for the appointment of women to the Board, third to be female candidates with diversity of ethnicity itsupports the aspiration on gender diversity in the Hamptonand background.
The Committee recommended the Alexander review and the Committee considers gender appointment of Catherine Glickman, as an independent diversity when making appointment recommendations.
non-executive director through this process.
On 25th July, following approval by the Board, we announced Catherines New Board appointments are subject to the Companys appointment with effect from 1st August, with Kath Durrant Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy, which was adopted stepping down from 31st July.
Stonehaven International has in the period, formalising our commitment to diversity at all no other connection with the Company.
The Committees procedures require it to first evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board.
The Committee agrees a role specification for Board appointments and if the Sir David McMurtry position is not to be fulfilled internally, appoints recruitment Chair of the Nomination Committee consultants to produce a long-list of diverse candidates for 26th July 2018 the Committees consideration.
Employees, diversity and policies Following this, the Committee will consider candidates on for more information see pages 39 and 40 merit and against objective criteria, with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
Senior management diversity for more information see page 39 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 55
