GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 The Committee met four times during the THE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE IS TO: year and details of members attendance are provided in the Corporate Governance section Review the structure, size and on page 85.
The Committee was particularly composition including the skills, focused this year on the recruitment of knowledge, experience and two new non-executive directors and the diversity of the Board and make commissioning of Renewis first externally recommendations to the Board with facilitated Board evaluation process.
COLIN MATTHEWS regard to any changes Chairman of the SUCCESSION PLANNING Nomination Committee Give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other Having already appointed Allard Castelein as a senior executives and in particular for non-executive director in January 2017 and in the key roles of Chairman and Chief recognition of the planned retirement of Eric Executive Officer van Amerongen and Stephen Riley at the July 2017 AGM, the Committee continued to work Keep under review the leadership closely with independent search consultants, needs of the Company, both executive Egon Zehnder International to refresh nonand non-executive, with a view to executive director representation on the Board.
ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in Searches were undertaken for two new the marketplace non-executive directors with the requisite skills and experience to supplement those Identify and nominate for the already covered by existing Board members.
approval of the Board, candidates The process involved short listing followed by to fill Board vacancies as and when interviews by the Chairman, other Committee they arise members and the Chief Executive Officer before final recommendations were made by the Recommend the re-election by Committee to the Board.
shareholders of directors under the annual re-election provisions, having Luc Sterckxs appointment as a non-executive due regard to their performance COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN: director was announced on 3 August 2017 and contribution in the light of the Colin Matthews and took effect on 1 September 2007.
Luc has knowledge, skills and experience significant experience and knowledge relevant required and the need for progressive COMMITTEE MEMBERS: to Renewi, including his successfully leading refreshing of the Board Jacques Petry, Marina Wyatt, Allard Castelein, a range of international businesses in, and Luc Sterckx appointed 1 September 2017, adjacent to, our sector.
His direct experience of Review the results of the Jolande Sap appointed 1 April 2018 post-merger integrations in the Benelux region annual Board performance will also be particularly helpful for Renewi at this evaluation process.
TERMS OF REFERENCE: stage of the Companys evolution.
com nomco For investors: www.
com 90 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Jolande Saps appointment as a non-executive 2 Greater exposure for members of the Continuity provided by the two Executive director was announced on 13 March 2018 Executive Committee to the Board Directors who have been in post for six years and took effect on 1 April 2018.
Operating in through formal presentations and site visit a highly regulated sector and with increasing opportunities.
Engagement and skill of the Chairman in Governmental focus on recycling policy and leading the Board the Circular Economy, Jolandes experience will Action: Board agendas now regularly include provide the Renewi Board with an additional Divisional and Functional updates and Complementary experience and skills of the and valuable perspective.
presentations from Executive Committee non-executive directors members.
Five Board meetings during the Any new director appointed to the Board is year were held at operational locations which Excellent Board support from the Company subject to election by shareholders at the included site tours.
first opportunity after their appointment.
All directors are required under the Companys 3 Refreshing talent reviews and succession Having considered IALs observations and Articles of Association to stand for re-election at plans for senior executives throughout the recommendations the Board then agreed each AGM.
specific 2018 19 action plans across four main areas.
Action: The Senior Leadership Team, BOARD TENURE comprised of former Shanks and VGG 1 A refocused strategy process positioning members as well as new hires, is now in Renewi for long-term success and value 0-3 YEARS 4 place having secured necessary Benelux creation beyond the merger benefits: Works Council approvals.
Succession and 4-6 YEARS 2 development plans are now being put in 2 Supplementary corporate support bandwidth 7-9 YEARS 2 place in conjunction with a Group wide HR to support the Executive Directors: harmonisation programme.
3 A review of Board Committee structure and membership: and 2017 18 REVIEW 4 A number of added value corporate The Board agreed that the 2017 18 review governance enhancement improvement should be carried out by an external facilitator.
BACKGROUND EXPERIENCE OF A number of suppliers took part in a tender NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS process following which it was determined that As part of the annual process, the Senior Independent Audit Limited IAL be appointed Independent Director reviewed the Chairmans ENERGY CHEMICALS 2 to conduct the Board evaluation.
The review performance with the other Directors and met explored a broad range of areas including POLITICS SOCIO-ECONOMICS 1 with him to provide feedback.
The Chairman strategy, operational priorities, the Boards TELECOMS MARKETING 1 also provided feedback to each Director on role, its structure and balance, succession, risk TRANSPORT 1 their individual contributions to the Board management and governance.
The review was WATER WASTE 1 and considered their development priorities.
conducted from November 2017 to January Following the review, the Board concluded 2018.
IAL were given access to Board and that, along with its Committees, it continued to Committee papers and minutes, and individual operate effectively during the year and that each meetings were held with all Directors and the director continued to demonstrate commitment Company Secretary.
As part of the process IAL to their role and perform effectively.
The Board also attended and observed the December was therefore able to recommend the election BOARD EVALUATION 2017 Board meeting held on site in Evergem and re-election of all those directors standing at in Belgium.
IAL prepared a report which was the forthcoming AGM.
Key findings from the 2016 17 review.
discussed with the Chairman and Company Secretary and then discussed at the full Board in 1 Further strategic analysis of the market and January 2018. technology drivers of the circular economy, specifically in the Benelux markets in which Against the background of the Boards Renewi operates.
necessary focus during the year on overseeing the initial integration of Shanks Group plc and Colin Matthews Action: Progress has been made including VGG, IAL concluded that their overall impression Chairman of the Nomination Committee refinement of the high level approach was of a Board that was coping well with the to initiating the next wave of growth as significant change caused by a transformational introduced at the inaugural Renewi Capital merger.
They noted a number of strengths in the Markets Day in September 2017.
Renewi Board including: Constructive relationships and a collegiate atmosphere at the Board For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 91
