60 Executive Leadership Team GARY BOOKER PAUL VANESSA EVANS JRGEN Chief Marketing, COCHRANE Group HR Director HFLING Innovation and Managing Managing Strategy Officer Director, Asia Director, Europe Appointed: January 2018 Appointed: March 2016 Appointed: January 2016 Appointed: October 2014 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Garys career includes senior Paul joined Rentokil Initial in Vanessa has had a successful Jrgen has significant leadership roles covering 1990 as Branch Manager of career with some of the worlds experience in senior positions strategy and innovation as well as the Initial Hygiene business in best known consumer brands.
in the logistics sector and in customer marketing for several New Zealand.
He later became She brings valuable business sales and marketing, principally high-profile businesses including Managing Director of Rentokil experience and expertise in from 14 years at Deutsche Post Dixons Carphone, where he Initial New Zealand & Fiji, human resources management.
He also was Chief Marketing Officer and Managing Director of Ambius She joined Rentokil Initial from has international management oversaw its Currys and PC World in the UK, Managing Director of RSA Group plc where she was consultancy experience gained brands: Telefnica O2 : and Initial Hygiene Pacific Australia, Group HR, Communications and as Founding Partner of Theron Electronic Arts, where he gained New Zealand and Fiji and then Customer Director.
Prior to that Management Advisors, an strong experience across strategy Senior Vice President of Rentokil Vanessa was Global HR Director international management and digital marketing.
Prior to that Initial Asia before becoming at Lego and Head of UK HR consultancy.
Jrgens early Gary held senior roles at Dunlop Regional Managing Director at GAP.
She is a Fellow of the career was with Werner & Metz Slazenger, Corinthian and Unipart.
Paul has a diploma in Chartered Institute of Personnel in various sales and marketing Gary holds an MBA in Strategic Business from the University of and Development and holds roles.
He is a German national Marketing University of Hull and Auckland and a Trade Certificate a BA Hons in Geography from and fluent in English, French and a BS Hons in Business Studies, of Automotive Engineering from Bulmershe College, University German.
Jrgen holds a degree Law and Psychology University Manukau Technical Institute in of Reading.
in Integration & Marketing from of Hertfordshire.
Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
ALAIN MOFFROID JOHN MYERS PHILL WOOD Andy Ransom, Jeremy Managing Director, Managing Managing Townsend and Daragh Pacific Director, Director, Fagan are also members North UK & Rest of the Executive Leadership America of World Team.
Their biographical information can be found on pages 58 and 59.
The Chief Executive chairs the Appointed: March 2016 Appointed: October 2013 Appointed: October 2013 Executive Leadership Team.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Alain joined Rentokil Initial in 2013 John joined Rentokil Initial in 2008 Phill joined Rentokil Initial in as Managing Director, Pacific.
as President and Chief Executive 2006, holding various senior He joined from Unilever where of the Pest Control division in Pest Control roles in Europe he held a number of senior roles North America.
Previously John before his appointment to lead across multiple geographies.
held various senior management the UK businesses Pest and He has significant experience in roles at Cintas Corporation.
He became marketing, sales and business to that, he was President and Managing Director of UK & development acquired during 23 Chief Executive at Bio Quest Rest of World in 2013.
Prior to years with Unilever in Europe, Asia LLC.
John has a diverse business joining Rentokil Initial, Phill held and Pacific.
Alain is a dual national background, with extensive sales, a number of top management Belgian Australian and is fluent marketing and business strategy positions at Lex Services RAC in English, French and Dutch.
He is a graduate of plc where he served for 15 years.
holds an MSc in Business from the University of Vermont where Phill has extensive commercial the Solvay Business School, he earned a Bachelors degree and business development University of Brussels.
He is a Chartered Additionally, he earned an MBA Management Accountant from Mercer University in Atlanta.
and holds a BSc Hons in Management Science from Loughborough University.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
