Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 71 Audit Committee Report Following a number of issues with the controls environment and accounting for employment taxes in 2017, we requested that the Group Tax and HR functions oversee a joint review of payroll controls and key employment tax risks during 2018.
A review to identify grey areas in country interpretations of local tax and social security laws will now also be undertaken annually.
No other control issues were identified from the reviews.
Following the collapse of Carillion and other market events, we undertook an external risk review and considered what potential lessons JULIE SOUTHERN should be learned from them, to understand and make sure that Rentokil Chair of the Initial did not have any comparable vulnerabilities.
We also requested Audit Committee and received a review from KPMG as our external auditor on their audit quality processes in response to recent issues with the firm.
We remain satisfied that they can provide an appropriate level of service and should be recommended for re-appointment at the Companys AGM in May 2019.
Dear Shareholder The Group has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS15 I am pleased to present the report of the Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 January 2018.
Audit Committee for the financial year Throughout the year we received updates from both management and the external auditors on the planning and processes being put ended 31 December 2018, during which in place and the subsequent impact of the new reporting standards.
we have exercised the authority delegated Full details regarding these standards can be found in the notes to theFinancial Statements on pages 114 and 115. by the Board to provide assurance for We experienced some control breakdowns in compliance with our the integrity of financial reporting and fumigation governance processes in a small number of countries during to review the Groups internal controls.
2018 and as a result have imposed some temporary restrictions on the services being delivered pending resolution.
This will remain an We have continued to discuss and challenge the assumptions important area of focus for the Audit Committee in 2019. andjudgements made by management in the preparation of Following an extensive update of the Audit Committees terms of publishedfinancial information and to oversee the internal controls reference at the end of 2017, we decided to track in detail against andcompliance.
agendas and the activities of the Committee during the year to ensure This report sets out how the Audit Committee has discharged its that all necessary responsibilities were being met during the year.
dutiesin accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code This process will be continued in 2019.
2016 and its key activities and findings during the year.
Last year we Following John Pettigrews appointment to the Audit Committee identified North America operational platform consolidation, payroll tax in January 2018, there have been no changes to the Committees compliance, implications of increased business complexity and scale, composition during the year.
M&A integration and IT security and data privacy GDPR as particular areas of focus for 2018.
I am pleased to report that following increased focus, resource and changes to the management team, we have seen a stabilisation of the financial reporting environment in North America, improvement in the transparency around operational performance and the creation of a stable base for budgeting, forecasting and reporting in 2019.
JULIE SOUTHERN Chair of the Audit Committee 27 February 2019 Committee members Julie Southern Chair Sir Crispin Davis John Pettigrew Linda Yueh Highlights of 2018 North America financial control environment stabilised Payroll tax compliance review undertaken Implementation of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Areas of focus for 2019 Increased scale and complexity of the business and resulting tax arrangements Fumigation controls governance The implementation of IFRS 16 Leases Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 72 Audit Committee Report and international background.
The Audit Committee as a whole is, Role of the Audit Committee therefore, considered to have competence relevant to the sector in The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring which the Company operates.
Full biographical details of the members of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The Audit of the Audit Committee are contained on pages 58 and 59.
All Audit Committees focus is to review and challenge in these areas both with Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The management and with internal and external auditors.
Audit Committee did not find it necessary to seek external advice during The Audit Committee: the year, other than through its usual dialogue with the external auditor.
monitors the integrity of the annual and interim results, including a Meetings of the Audit Committee are attended by the Company review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the external therein the Directors statement of responsibilities for preparing auditor, the Director of Risk & Internal Audit, the Group Financial the Annual Report and Financial Statements can be found in the Controller & Treasurer, the Company Secretary and the Assistant Directors Report on page 169 : Company Secretary.
The Audit Committee meets at least once per year keeps under review the Companys internal financial controls and separately with the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, and the Director of internal control and risk management systems: Risk & Internal Audit without executive management present.
In 2018, reports to the Board on its activities and provides the Board with this meeting took place in February.
The Chair of the Audit Committee an independent assessment of the Groups accounting affairs also meets independently with the Director of Risk & Internal Audit and financial position to enable it to meet the UK Corporate outside of formal meetings.
The Chair of the Audit Committee reports Governance Code the Code requirement to present a fair, to the Board at the next Board meeting on the activity of the Audit balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys Committee and any matters of particular relevance to the Board in position and prospects: the conduct of its work.
monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: Activities of the Audit Committee in 2018 establishes and oversees the Companys relationship with the In 2018, the Audit Committee considered the following key areas: external auditor, including setting their fees, monitoring their independence and effectiveness and ensuring that the Companys Internal controls andrisk policy relating to their engagement on non-audit matters is The effectiveness of the internal control and risk management framework appropriate and observed: including an assessment by the external auditor of the Companys risk reviews correspondence from regulators in relation to the Companys management framework relative to peer group companies to ensure that best financial reporting and, if appropriate, reviews managements practices are applied where relevant.
response: and The statement to shareholders on the control environment.
The outcome of internal audit investigations and status of resolution of monitors matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing issuesraised.
Group risks and actions to enhance their measurement, monitoring and mitigation actions.
Terms of reference Review and enhancement of relevant policies and procedures including tax The Audit Committee undertook a review of its terms of reference and procurement policies and business continuity.
Group reporting processes and the central control environment, including during 2018, making only minor amendments.
These new terms of the review of Group Risk Committee minutes.
reference were approved by the Board in December and are available Output from financial controls testing carried out across the Group by the on our website.
Due to the increased length and complexity of the terms Companys auditor, KPMG LLP.
of reference following their substantial update at the end of 2017, the The conclusions and themes emerging from the internal audit reviews conducted during the year and approval of the internal audit plan for 2019 Audit Committee now reviews its activities to consider alignment with in parallel with the Boards strategic review and operating plan for the year.
the duties and responsibilities set out in the terms of reference on an The IT internal audit plan for 2018 2020. annual basis.
A report of the Disclosure Committees activities during the year and terms of reference.
Composition and attendance of the Audit Committee A review of employment taxes and payroll controls.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year and the members of the Audit Committee and their attendance during 2018 can be External audit found below.
The terms and scope of the audit engagement for the annual and interim financial statements.
The effectiveness of the external audit process.
Audit Committee members and attendance in 2018 A review of the annual financial statements, consideration of principal areas of accounting judgement or materiality, further details of which are provided below, Julie Southern Chair John Pettigrew including discussions with the auditor without executives present.
4 4 meetings attended 3 4 meetings attended The audit strategy for the 2018 audit including the key areas of focus, materiality levels, scope and coverage.
An analysis setting out the basis on which KPMG LLP continued to meet the appropriate professional standards of independence as auditor to the Company.
Sir Crispin Davis Linda Yueh The FRCs Audit Quality Review in relation to KPMG.
4 4 meetings attended 4 4 meetings attended Accounting and financial reporting The annual and interim financial statements, together with the significant John Pettigrew was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee in financial reporting judgements relating to each statement, and fair, balanced January 2018.
He was unable to attend one meeting during the year due and understandable reporting.
Reviews of material litigation and disputes.
to a pre-existing commitment which was known prior to his appointment Reviews with Regional Finance Directors including the control environment and which was not able to be changed by either party.
A review of and recommendation to the Board in relation to the going concern Julie Southern, Chair of the Audit Committee, is a Chartered Accountant analysis and the viability statement.
and is considered to have relevant and recent financial experience.
Key accounting matters including the implementation of new accounting Sir Crispin Davis and John Pettigrew have extensive commercial and standards IFRS9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and transitional work for IFRS 16 Leases.
operational experience in overseeing the financial affairs of substantial business undertakings and Linda Yueh has a strong economic Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 73 Audit Committee Report Significant accounting judgements After discussion with both management and the auditor, the Audit Committee has determined the key issues of accounting judgement affecting the financial statements and therefore providing the potential for material misstatement in the 2018 Annual Report.
The significant areas of focus considered and actions taken are set out below.
These issues have been discussed and reviewed by the Audit Committee during the year, notably at the review of the interim results and at the review and agreement of the audit plan for 2019.
Implementation of IFRS 15 Significant matter Action taken Revenue from Contracts The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Management developed a model that enabled the business with Customers Customers with effect from 1 January 2018.
Under IFRS 15 the units to calculate their opening transitional adjustments Group is required to capitalise and amortise the incremental based on a set of assumptions about costs incurred and costs of obtaining contracts contract costs.
Significant the lives of the contracts to which they relate.
The model judgement was required to estimate the transitional and the assumptions were reviewed by the external auditor adjustment for unamortised contract costs across the Group as part of the year end audit process.
and the remaining lives of the contracts to which they relate.
Valuation of Significant matter Action taken intangibleassets The Group carries material balances for intangible fixed Management reviewed all goodwill balances over 1m for assets arising on acquisitions, and due to the acquisition impairment using a centrally provided model.
The intangible programme makes material additions to these balances assets were grouped into cash-generating units CGUs for each year.
Annual impairment tests are based on value-inthe purpose of assessing recoverable amount, using cash use calculations which require significant judgements in flows based on the most recent strategic plans, as amended relation to the inputs used, including forecast growth rates for any significant changes since their preparation.
Management is required to perform flows were discounted using the internally published Group annual tests for impairment of goodwill balances over 1m, discount rates, which are adjusted to reflect local country and on other acquired intangible assets when there are risk.
The Audit Committee received a summary of the results indicators of impairment.
of the review, and although the total value of intangible assets is significant, management was able to demonstrate to the Committee that there is material headroom in the major balances based on the assumptions made.
Acquisition accounting Significant matter Action taken The Group makes a large number of acquisitions each year, At the year end, management provided the Audit many of which require the valuation of acquired intangible Committee with a summary of M&A activity in the preceding assets including brands, customer lists and goodwill.
year, including updates to provisional accounting as well as The calculations for valuing these assets on acquisition details of new acquisitions.
The Audit Committee reviewed are subject to significant judgement and estimation about the accounting treatment of certain aspects of significant the future performance of the acquired business, such as acquisitions, including determination of the consideration forecast customer termination rates, discount rates and paid, the identification and valuation of acquired intangible growth rates.
The Group utilises the allowances for provisional assets and a review of provisional opening balance sheets.
accounting within the standards where appropriate, and there is judgement required during this period as to whether the adjustments relate to the preor post-acquisition period.
Deferred tax assets Significant matter Action taken recognised on unused The Group holds substantial deferred tax assets recognised The Audit Committee reviewed the position at the half taxlosses on unused tax losses.
The amount recognised is a year and year end balance sheet dates supported by judgement and is based on estimates of future profitability papers from the Group Tax Director, and is satisfied that and judgements in determining the forecast period.
the assumptions supporting the valuations are appropriate and that the assets are reasonably stated in the financial statements.
Where judgements are material to the Group the external auditor uses its own specialists to assist in the review of the approaches taken and assumptions made by management to ensure these are appropriate and result in adequate provisions.
Tax provisions Significant matter Action taken The Group holds a number of provisions for tax contingencies The Group employed local tax experts to support judgements in relation to various claims and potential claims from tax where there is significant uncertainty and the amounts authorities, which require significant judgements and involved are material.
In respect of transfer pricing across estimates in relation to tax risks.
The complexity is increased tax jurisdictions the Group benchmarked its approach using as a result of the large number of tax jurisdictions in which international tax experts to ensure the risk of breaching local the Group operates, and the time taken for tax matters to be tax authority requirements is minimised.
As noted above, agreed with the relevant authorities.
the Audit Committee reviewed the position at the half year and year end balance sheet dates supported by papers from the Group Tax Director, and is satisfied that the assumptions supporting the valuations are appropriate and that the liabilities are reasonably stated in the financial statements.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 74 Audit Committee Report Audit-related and non-audit services Internal audit To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the auditor, the The Group has an operational internal audit team of six led by the Company has a policy on the engagement of the auditors services on Director of Risk & Internal Audit.
The Director of Risk & Internal audit-related and non-audit services.
The Audit Committee accepts that Audit reports to the Chief Financial Officer and has direct lines of certain work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the auditor.
communication with the Chair of the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive and the Company Chairman, as well as to all operational and The policy sets out the nature of services that are permitted and those functional leaders in the business.
Whilst the overall size of the team that are specifically prohibited.
In general, permitted services would be has not increased, its composition has been strengthened during 2018 limited to matters that are closely related to the annual audit process or by the appointment of a new Senior Internal Auditor.
During the year where a detailed knowledge of the Group is advantageous.
The auditor the Audit Committee also asked the Chief Financial Officer to consider is permitted to be engaged on transaction services but not to undertake internal audit resource provision in North America.
any work which would itself be subject to audit.
In 2018, internal audit continued to conduct in-depth reviews of a broad The Audit Committee regularly reviews the amount and nature of range of business processes at business locations across all regions.
non-audit work performed by the auditor to ensure that the auditors These included: independence is not compromised.
Any engagement fee on permitted key financial controls: services in excess of 10,000 requires the approval of the Chair of entertainment and expenses: the Audit Committee and any engagement fee in excess of 250,000 authority schedules: requires the approval of the Audit Committee.
A copy of our policy payroll: on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors IT general controls and IT corporate-level controls: is available on our website.
There was no significant non-audit Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI-DSS compliance: service engagement during 2018. pricing: Audit fees for the statutory audit for 2018 were 2.6m 2017: 2.5m.
customer contract management: Fees for audit-related assurance services and other non-audit services stock and warehousing: incurred during the year amounted to 0.2m 2017: 0.7m.
The ratio procurement: of non-audit fees to audit fees for the year was therefore 0.09:1 operational effectiveness: 2017: 0.25:1.
The majority of the audit-related services were in relation business continuity management: and to non-statutory accounts audits.
Further details of the fees paid for compliance with the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption policy, audit services, audit-related services and non-audit services can be andpolicies for reporting serious incidents.
found in Note A8 to the Financial Statements on page 123.
The 2018 internal audit plan approved by the Audit Committee in Disclosure of information to the auditor December 2017 was mostly completed but with some re-prioritisation The Audit Committee monitors the process leading up to the to incorporate reviews of businesses where risks have increased.
As preparation of the financial statements, including the arrangements aresult, an additional audit was completed during the year in Poland.
the Company has in place for disclosing all relevant audit information Two audits were deferred by three months to early 2019 due to to the auditor.
A formal confirmation on disclosure of information to management being involved in business due diligence.
27 audits were the auditor is provided in the Directors Report on page 169. concluded in total across all regions except the Pacific.
The common themes arising from the internal audit work during 2018 were presented Effectiveness to the Audit Committee in December 2018.
Under the Code, the Audit Committee is required to review and monitor None of the failures identified in the control environment by internal the auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of audit or any of the recommendations relating to individual audits the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional represented a systemic underlying issue.
The overall work of the and regulatory requirements.
The 2017 audit was completed and all internal audit function is supportive of the Audit Committees and the milestones reached, and there were no significant unexpected events Boards view that the financial and operational controls environment, relating to the publication of the 2017 year end results in March 2018. set out overleaf, is working adequately.
The Boards statement on the In 2018, the Audit Committee considered the findings of the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control can be found the auditors effectiveness of the 2017 audit process which had been onpage 69. conducted during the preparation of Group and local statutory accounts for the 2017 financial period.
The process drew input from the Chief External audit Financial Officer, the Director of Risk & Internal Audit and other members Audit services of the senior finance management team as well as from the majority of The auditor is appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the Finance Directors of the Groups subsidiaries.
The process made the financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared by the use of a formal evaluation using a questionnaire which was completed Directors.
KPMG LLP has acted as the auditor to the Group throughout by 38 business units as well as by the central accounts, tax and treasury the year.
The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the auditor, functions.
In order to allow direct comparability of the evaluation scores agreeing the audit strategy and related work plan as well as approving across periods, the questions were exactly the same as those used in their fees.
The questionnaire covered: The auditor attends all meetings of the Audit Committee.
During resources and expertise of the external audit team: 2018 KPMG met with the Audit Committee once without executive effectiveness of the audit process: and management present and met with the Audit Committee Chair effectiveness of the financial controls testing process.
The main engagement with the Audit Committee in 2018 has been over the audit and publication of annual The Audit Committee considered the comprehensive findings of the and periodic financial statements, including the auditors scope and review where it was noted that some concerns had been raised across priorities approach and key judgement areas, as well as advising on the the Group on the knowledge and experience of more junior members reporting requirements relating, for example, to significant acquisitions of the audit teams and a lack of continuity in staff.
None of the findings and disposals.
The Audit Committee considers that it has an effective were considered material in the overall context of the Group audit but working relationship with the external audit team.
As reported on comments received were helpful in relation to improvements in the page 75, the Audit Committee has formally reviewed the effectiveness Companys processes and those of the auditor.
Taking all responses of the auditor and is satisfied with their performance.
into account, the scoring mechanism demonstrated that the audit performance was effective and at a similar level to the previous year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 75 Audit Committee Report Tenure Some of the above responsibilities are delegated to the Audit Committee as previously described.
The Audit Committee receives As previously disclosed, the Audit Committee oversaw a formal and regular reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of competitive tender process during 2017 in relation to the Groups Risk & Internal Audit on financial controls and process improvement external auditor, which resulted in the reappointment of KPMG LLP.
These include: KPMG LLP have been our external auditor since the audit for the year ended 2009. an annual report on the overall status of the control environment in the Group including the results of testing and reports on identified KPMG LLP are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the areas of weakness in controls: Group audit every five years and, as previously communicated, the action plans on control environment improvements and updates former lead audit partner, Paul Sawdon, having served since 2013 on their implementation: rotated off our account after the 2017 year end with his last meeting updates on control weaknesses and planned actions to prevent being in February 2018.
He was replaced by Mike Maloney, who has a re-occurrence: and attended all Audit Committee meetings during 2018. periodic reports from regional and Group Finance executives, The Company confirms its compliance with the provisions of the UK and internal audit.
Competition & Markets Authority Order regarding statutory audit services Independent reassurance of the effectiveness of risk management for the financial period ended 31 December 2018. and internal controls across the Group is provided to the Chief Executive Auditor independence and objectivity and the Board by Group Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee considers annually the scope, fee, performance The Audit Committee has continued its practice of reviewing the risk and independence of the external auditor.
In concluding that KPMG and control environment in the five main regional businesses in-depth, LLP should be proposed for reappointment as auditor at the AGM in as well as the Regional Finance Directors assessment of the quality May 2019, the Board and the Audit Committee took into account the and priorities of the Finance function in that part of the business.
need to ensure that auditor independence was safeguarded.
The Audit This provides a high-level insight for the Audit Committee as well as Committee received confirmation from KPMG LLP that they remained an opportunity to challenge key managers on potential risks.
It further independent and objective within the context of applicable professional supports the discussions that take place in the Nomination Committee standards.
The Audit Committee also took into account the review on talent and succession in the Finance function.
undertaken of the effectiveness of the audit process as well as input from executive management.
The number of control issues across the Group remains relatively low, with those which do occur not resulting in a material impact on The Company considers that there are sufficient controls and processes Group performance.
Operational controls examined by Internal Audit in place to ensure that the required level of independence of the auditor generally work well but during 2018 some gaps in awareness of is maintained.
The Board does not consider that there is any material risk technical standards for certain activity were identified in some Pest of the Companys auditor withdrawing from the market.
There were a small number of instances of failure to comply fully with Group policies and standards for the conduct of Groups approach to risk management and internal control fumigation activity in several countries, in particular India, Lithuania and The Groups approach to managing risk and ensuring that an effective New Zealand.
These issues are being followed up by Group technical internal control environment is maintained is described below.
The specialists and country management with precautionary suspensions Boards statement on risk management and internal control is set out ofcertain activities pending resolution.
in the Corporate Governance Report on page 69.
There is a Group Risk Committee composed of key functional and The identification and management of risk is fully integrated into the operational senior managers which considers the risk framework and development of the Groups strategy and the day-to-day operational key and emerging risks.
It supports the Audit Committee and executive execution of the strategy by the regions and business units.
Ensuring management by: that risks are identified and managed effectively is a part of every providing oversight of the Groups framework for managing risk: managers and supervisors job through leadership of the teams for providing oversight of the processes for reviewing the effectiveness which they are responsible.
of the Group risk management framework and internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management systems: approach, which includes: assisting the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the risks review and approval of the Groups overall strategy, including overall the Group is prepared to take and monitoring emerging risks: and risk appetite.
This includes reviewing the risks that may prevent the determining internal responsibility for appropriate mitigating Group from achieving its objectives and ensuring that these risks are strategies.
mitigated or managed to an acceptable level: Copies of the minutes of the Group Risk Committee are provided to regular reviews of business performance including updates of the the Audit Committee, who have requested that management ensure risks that the business is facing, and challenging management to that items raised as significant or emerging issues by the Group Risk obtain assurance that these risks are being effectively managed: Committee are reflected in adjustments to the control environment review of managements approach to identifying and managing as appropriate.
risk including approval of the Group principal risks schedule and recommending enhancements: evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls: evaluation of the effectiveness of internal and external audit: and delegation of authority to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to make commitments on behalf of the Company.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 76 Audit Committee Report Governance and compliance The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing the Companys procedures for handling compliance with the Companys Code of Conduct, including its anti-corruption policy and confidential reporting whistleblower arrangements.
The Code of Conduct, a fundamental commitment to comply with all applicable legal requirements and with high ethical standards, can be found on our website.
The Audit Committee is informed of feedback from senior management who are required to provide an annual Letter of Assurance confirming compliance with key Group policies, including the Code of Conduct, and the dissemination of these policies to their respective country and functional teams.
There are policies and procedures in place for the reporting by colleagues of suspected wrongdoing, for these suspicions to be formally investigated, and for the results of the investigation to be reported to the whistleblower.
There were 23 control incidents reported in 2018 2017: 17.
Further details of the type of control incidences, and the processes for reporting and investigating any incidents are provided in the Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on our website.
There have been no anti-bribery or anti-corruption matters reported during the year.
The Audit Committee also periodically reviews processes which the Company has in place to ensure that in all territories there is an effective communication process through which colleagues are kept informed about the whistleblowing process.
Audit Committee effectiveness In November 2018, the Audit Committee conducted a review of its effectiveness using internal questionnaires, in parallel to the Board evaluation detailed on page 67.
The review concluded that the Audit Committee was performing effectively and had received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil itsresponsibilities.
Read our Code of Conduct at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery code-of-conduct Read the Audit Committees terms of reference at rentokil-initial.
com investors governance Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
