Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 77 Nomination Committee Report Committee members John McAdam Chair Richard Burrows Sir Crispin Davis John Pettigrew Angela Seymour-Jackson Julie Southern Linda Yueh JOHN McADAM Highlights of 2018 Chair of the Progress on executive succession plans, including an enhanced Nomination Committee and more diverse pipeline of ready now internal candidates Talent and Employer of Choice agenda, in particular development of talent pools and workshops Dear Shareholder Areas of focus for 2019 I wrote in my letter last year that one of Smooth transition of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chair roles our areas of focus for 2018 would be the Further progress on executive succession succession of our Senior Independent Director, Richard Burrows, at the end ofthe year.
John McAdam has now been our Chairman for over 10 years and whilst he continues to lead the Board with great clarity, skill However, following various conversations with me and other members and relevance, progressive refreshing of board membership of the Committee, Richard very kindly agreed to stay on as a Nonis considered a key element to achieving good corporate Executive Director and Senior Independent Director of the Company governance.
Whilst nine years has previously been seen as in order to assist with coordinating the succession planning for my a guide, in relation to the Chairman, the 2018 UK Corporate ownrole as Company Chairman and it is now intended that he will Governance Code now states that the Chairman should not remain stepdown at the AGM in May.
in post beyond nine years from the date of their first appointment to the board although this period can be extended for a limited Following the conclusion of the AGM, John Pettigrew will become time to facilitate effective succession planning and the development Senior Independent Director of the Company.
John has been of a diverse board.
In light of this change it was felt to be a Non-Executive Director of the Company since January 2018. appropriate to accelerate the succession planning in place for Furthermore, it is intended that Angela Seymour-Jackson will succeed our Chairman with a view to him stepping down at some point Richard as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Director since March 2012 and has been a member of the Remuneration Committee since she joined the Board.
As Senior Independent Director, I have led the planning and It has also been announced that I will be stepping down from the Board search for a successor for John and the steps taken by me and at the AGM in May.
As is best practice, Richard chaired the sections the other members of the Committee during 2018 and early 2019 of the Nomination Committee meetings during 2018 and early 2019 are outlined on page 78. which related to my succession and, as is only appropriate, he will I am delighted to say that Richard Solomons has agreed to join address this directly below.
the Board of Directors and to become Chairman from the conclusion of the Companys AGM in May.
The Committee In other regards, 2018 was a slightly quieter year for the Committee believes he will bring a wealth of strategic and operational following the appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors in 2017. expertise as well as experience and contribution in several We, however, continue to focus on the talent and succession planning areas that have been identified as key to the Groups continued ofsenior management and once again received a detailed update on success, such as North America and the effective use of digital this from the Group HR Director in December 2018.
More information tools in service-led global businesses.
In order to allow for about this can be found on page 79. asuitable handover period, Richard will join the Board as a I am very happy that we have maintained our 33% female representation Non-Executive Director from 1 March 2019.
He will also join at Board level during the year, meeting the recommendation of as a member of the Nomination Committee from his date of the Hampton-Alexander Review.
I am encouraged to see that the appointment.
As a Board we will all be deeply sad to see John percentage of females in senior management roles has once again step down as Chairman, but we welcome the opportunity to increased in 2018 and is now sitting at 30%.
We continue to receive workwith someone new in this pivotal role.
I will be working with updates on how diverse talent is being fostered and developed and my fellow Committee members to ensure a smooth succession.
the impact of our policies and practices that have been put in place.
RICHARD BURROWS Senior Independent Director JOHN McADAM Chair of the Nomination Committee 27 February 2019 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 78 Nomination Committee Report Role of the Nomination Committee Appointment process to the Board The Nomination Committee has delegated authority from the Board as The Nomination Committee has responsibility for managing the set out in its terms of reference.
The Nomination Committee reviewed appointment process to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent its terms of reference in December 2018, which were subsequently procedure for appointing Directors.
In order for the Board to discharge approved by the Board, and are available on our website.
its duties and responsibilities effectively, it must comprise a diverse group of individuals whose skills and experience are gained in a Membership and attendance variety of backgrounds.
Successful candidates must demonstrate All Non-Executive Directors are members of the Nomination Committee independence of mind and integrity, and must enhance the overall in order to ensure that they are able to provide input and help determine effectiveness of the Board.
Appointments are considered objectively, the future composition of the Board.
The Nomination Committee met regardless of gender, ethnicity or other personal characteristics, and formally three times during the year.
As detailed below, the members are made on merit.
Pro-forma letters of appointment and Directors of the Nomination Committee also met regularly outside of these formal service contracts are available on our website.
meetings in relation to the succession of the Companys Chairman.
The process of appointing new Directors to the Board is supported The members of the Nomination Committee that served during 2018, through the use of an external recruitment consultant.
Following the along with their attendance at Nomination Committee meetings, can refresh of the Board composition in 2017, including John Pettigrews be seen below.
appointment which commenced on 1 January 2018, no new NonExecutive Directors have been appointed to the Board in 2018.
The Nomination Committee has, however, spent much of its time this year Nomination Committee members and considering succession planning of our Chairman, as outlined below.
attendancein2018 During 2018, the Nomination Committee reviewed Angela SeymourJohn McAdam Chair Angela Seymour-Jackson Jacksons appointment as a Non-Executive Director following the 3 3 meetings attended 3 3 meetings attended completion of her second three-year term.
The Nomination Committee recommended that she be reappointed on an annual rolling basis, subject to her continued independence and shareholder approval Richard Burrows Julie Southern for re-election at our AGM.
The Board approved this recommendation.
3 3 meetings attended 3 3 meetings attended Chairman succession A key area of focus for the Nomination Committee during 2018 and Sir Crispin Davis Linda Yueh early2019 was the planned succession of John McAdam as Chairman.
3 3 meetings attended 3 3 meetings attended It was announced in February 2019 that John McAdam intended to stepdown as Chairman at the Companys AGM in May.
John has served as Chairman since his appointment to the Board in John Pettigrew May 2008 and whilst his succession was previously under review, the 3 3 meetings attended provision regarding the length of appointment of the Chair of a Company contained in the new UK Corporate Governance Code published in July 2018 meant that discussions took place to consider whether it was appropriate for plans to be accelerated.
This process was led by Richard Where any member is unable to attend a meeting, the Nomination Burrows, Senior Independent Director, on behalf of the Nomination Committee Chair will seek their views in advance and provide a briefing Committee, who agreed to extend his appointment past the end of 2018 on outcomes if appropriate.
All Nomination Committee members are in order to oversee the succession.
provided with the papers and the minutes of the meeting, whether or In anticipation, and with the Chairmans full knowledge and support, not they are able to attend.
The Chief Executive also normally attends the Nomination Committee engaged Russell Reynolds Associates to meetings, especially to assist with discussions of executive succession assist with the process.
They worked with the Nomination Committee to and talent programmes.
The Company Secretary is secretary of the devise a candidate profile, which contained a brief of the requirements Nomination Committee and the Assistant Company Secretary also and the desired skill set that any potential successor would need.
Russell Reynolds Associates has no other material connections with the Company nor any Director and is a signatory to the Enhanced Code of Activities of the Nomination Committee in 2018 Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
The key activities of the Nomination Committee in 2018 were the review of Board succession planning, in particular the succession plan for the Upon reviewing the profile the Nomination Committee agreed to Companys Chairman and Senior Independent Director: and the talent consider both internal and external candidates.
An international and succession plan for senior management.
Other items discussed external search was then undertaken with detailed reports of potential by the Nomination Committee during 2018 included: successors being provided.
This yielded a pool of candidates which was a review and selection of executive search consultants: reduced to a shortlist of several potential candidates.
These shortlisted a review of the Nomination Committees terms of reference: candidates met with members of the Nomination Committee, including a review of the Nomination Committees effectiveness, conducted the Senior Independent Director, and the Group HR Director, and internally: subsequently with the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
a review of the Boards Diversity Policy, including its effectiveness: Additional calls and meetings were held outside of the scheduled a review of the performance of individual Directors, using output Nomination Committee meetings to facilitate this.
from the Board evaluation process, and making recommendations The process culminated with the Nomination Committee meeting in to the Board over the re-election of Directors at the AGM: and February 2019 to agree a recommendation to the Board that proposed a review of potential conflicts of interest authorised by the Board and the appointment of Richard Solomons as a Non-Executive Director the processes in place to ensure that they are properly considered.
from 1 March and as Chairman following John McAdams retirement More detailed information is provided below, where appropriate.
at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 8 May 2019, which the Board fully supported.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 79 Nomination Committee Report Our Board Diversity Policy also sets out our commitment to working Succession planning and talent development only with executive search firms who have signed up to the Enhanced Both the Nomination Committee and the Board recognise that strategic, Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender thoughtful and practical succession planning is critical to the long-term diversity and best practice.
All executive search firms retained by the success of the Company.
The Nomination Committee looks to bring new Company during 2018 for Board and ELT appointments have signed energy, challenge and oversight to the Board and to reflect the business up to the enhanced code.
strategy and operational goals in appointments.
The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for Executive and Non-Executive Proportion of males and females Directors and senior management, with the Nomination Committee As at 31 December having oversight and making recommendations as required.
The Group HR Director presented an overview of the Companys talent Board strategy to the Nomination Committee during the year, which reviewed 25% 75% the current succession pipeline for key senior management roles as well as wider talent development priorities, and the creation of three 2016 talent pools.
The talent pools have been established to help identify successors for roles in our Executive Leadership Team ELT and 38% 62% Senior Leadership Forum SLF, to improve the succession pipeline for senior operational management, and to identify and accelerate the 2017 development of fast-track talent.
Identified members of the talent pools 33% 67% are offered development that focuses on individual needs and stretches people in the areas required for their next role within the Company.
Descriptions of the ELT and SLF can be found in the Corporate 2018 Governance Report on page 68.
2016: 8 members 2017: 8 members 2018: 9 members The aim of the talent strategy is to ensure that activity is focused on the key priorities of the organisation, in particular strengthening internal succession paths to key operational and leadership roles in the short Executive Leadership Team and medium term, and retaining critical talent and specialists.
By the 10% 90% end of 2018, the Group HR function had completed the most extensive talent and succession review ever undertaken, reviewing the succession 2016 plans for 224 roles across all regions and functions.
As a result of this process additional participants from the regions included in Group talent 11% 89% pools for 2019-2020 have been identified and regional pools in North America and Pacific are being set up to run alongside those already 2017 underway in Europe and Asia.
10% 90% Fostering a diverse and inclusive culture A key strategic aim of the Company is to be recognised as a world- 2018 class Employer of Choice that is able to attract, recruit and retain the 2016: 10 members 2017: 9 members 2018: 10 members best people from the widest possible pool of talent.
We are, therefore, committed to creating a diverse and inclusive working environment for all employees by, at all times, striving to be an organisation that values 1 Senior management everyones talents and abilities and where diversity is encouraged.
24% 76% We want our workforce to reflect the diverse nature of the business environment and markets in which we operate and the customers that 2016 we serve.
As a company, we strongly believe that a more diverse and inclusive workforce will boost our financial performance, enhance our 27% 73% reputation, support innovation and increase colleague engagement.
We do not believe in setting artificial targets or quotas our approach 2017 is to make sustainable and measurable improvements over time.
30% 70% Having strengthened our focus on diversity throughout 2016 and 2017, we are pleased to report that we have made continued progress on 2018 our diversity and inclusion agenda during 2018.
2016: 76 members 2017: 78 members 2018: 74 members We are also pleased to report that once again in 2018 we have no material gender pay gap in our UK-based businesses.
Full details can Females Males be found in our 2018 Gender Pay Gap Report, which is available to 1.
W e define senior management as direct reports to the Executive Leadership Team, excluding viewon our website.
colleagues in administrative and support roles.
Board and senior management gender diversity The proportion of women in senior management positions across Our Board Diversity Policy reaffirms our commitment to meeting and Rentokil Initial has increased significantly over the last two years and in maintaining the recommendations made in the final Davies Review and 2018 reached 30% for the first time.
Our progress on improving female in the Hampton-Alexander Review on improving gender balance in representation in the most senior leadership roles in the Company FTSE leadership, which set a target of 33% female Board representation saw us ranked 32nd of all FTSE 100 companies in the 2018 Hamptonby 2020.
In 2017, we achieved this ahead of schedule with females Alexander Review, up from 46th the previous year.
We were also named representing 38% of Board members at the end of 2017.
Following in 2018 as one of the leading 200 employers for gender diversity and John Pettigrews appointment in January 2018, one third of our Board equality by Equileap, an organisation aiming to accelerate progress members are now female and we maintained this level throughout 2018. towards gender equality in the workplace.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 80 Nomination Committee Report Developing and fostering diverse talent To ensure we are seen as an employer of choice for Millennials, we are putting a number of focused actions in place in order that we are able Our improvements in the gender diversity of our senior management to continue to attract, recruit and retain this growing segment of our population have been underpinned by sustainable actions to develop workforce.
In addition, we also have a number of programmes in place diverse talent across the organisation.
to support the development of our younger colleagues.
Further details In late 2018, we launched a mentoring programme for female can be found in our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report on our website.
participants of our global talent programmes to support their career development, with women in the programme being paired with Managing conflicts of interest senior mentors from within and outside Rentokil Initial.
Our focus on The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation where they have, developing our female talent has seen us achieve a 9% increase in or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or might possibly the proportion of women identified in our succession plans for senior conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Board is permitted, under management positions.
powers from shareholders contained in the Articles of Association, to authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest.
We have also continued to invest in and bolster our longer-term pipeline of female talent.
In 2018 we also increased our focus on The Company has a procedure in place to deal with the situation where attracting and recruiting more women into frontline technician roles, a Director has a conflict of interest and as part of the process the Board holding our inaugural Women in Pest Control event in Sydney, considers each potential conflict situation on its merits.
Since the Australia in 2018 to get feedback and insights from our female procedure was introduced a number of potential situational conflicts colleagues see page 54 for more details.
Similar events will be held have been authorised after review by the Chairman, with support from around the world during 2019 and further details of our efforts in 2018 the Company Secretary.
The Board maintains a register of authorisations and their results can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report granted and the scope of any approvals given, which is circulated to on our website.
Board members prior to each meeting.
Ethnic and cultural diversity Conflicts are divided into transactional conflicts arising from a specific matter and situational conflicts arising from appointments on other We continue to consider the findings of the Parker Review and the boards or through some other ongoing relationship.
All of the approvals proposals to increase the ethnic and cultural diversity of UK Boards.
given have been situational, none of which is subject to any specific The review sets out aims for each FTSE 100 Board to have at least limitation or condition.
These potential conflicts are not material either to onedirector from an ethnic minority background by 2021.
We have the Company or, the Directors believe, to the other companies that are achieved this aspiration ahead of schedule, with one of our Board the subject of the potential conflict.
The Company has not encountered members being from an ethnic minority background.
any transactional conflicts involving Directors that would require a As a global organisation we also believe it is important to have a senior Director to be excluded from any part of the Boards activities.
management team that is representative of the markets in which we operate and the customers we serve.
We can report that presently 11% The impact of each Non-Executive Directors other commitments on of our senior management roles are filled with individuals who are defined their ability to perform their role on the Board has also been carefully as ethnic minorities, which we will continue to monitor from now on.
While not strictly a conflict of interest, the implications for effective conduct of Board responsibilities of so-called overboarding Additionally, to remove bias from our recruitment processes and to are clear, and an increasing concern for some investors.
Our experience ensure we are attracting the best people from the widest possible shows that all the Companys Non-Executive Directors have been able pool of talent, in the last 12 months we have revitalised our online not only to perform their roles on the Board, but also to go beyond their recruitment channels and put in a number of tools to enable candidates formal commitments, including, for example, attendance at meetings to understand more about our culture and typical job roles.
of other Committees in addition to those of which they are members.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Governance Report Generations at work onpage 62.
Colleagues defined as Millennials those born between 1981 and 1996 now form almost as large a proportion 37% of our overall workforce as Under its terms of reference the Nomination Committee has colleagues defined as Generation X those born between 1965 and responsibility to review the current schedule of authorisations with a 1980: 38%.
Baby Boomers those born between 1946 and 1964 now view to considering whether they remain appropriate or whether they make up just 24% of our total colleagues.
We are seeing the proportion should be revoked or otherwise limited.
This review is undertaken of female colleagues increasing with each generation, meaning we annually and also considers the process for considering and authorising expect our overall ratio of female employees to increase over time.
In 2018, the process for the disclosure of any perceived conflicts upon the appointment of a new Director Proportion of males and females by generation was reviewed and it was concluded that no updates were necessary.
As at 31 December 2018 All authorisations given were considered appropriate and none were revoked or otherwise limited.
Millennials Nomination Committee effectiveness 30% 70% The Nomination Committee has conducted an independence evaluation of each Non-Executive Director seeking election or re-election and recommended to the Board that they be put forward for election or re-election on the basis that their performance, both individually and Generation X in aggregate, continues to be effective and that each demonstrates 26% 74% commitment to the role.
In addition, the Nomination Committee conducted a review of how it operates, which concluded that the Nomination Committee had operated effectively in 2018.
Read the Nomination Committee terms of reference at Baby Boomers rentokil-initial.
com investors governance 25% 75% Read our Corporate Responsibility Report at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery Read our Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy a Females Males rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery policies Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
