Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 61 Corporate Governance Report Statement of compliance Board composition and roles The principal governance framework applying to the Company is the The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, two UK Corporate Governance Code, which was published in April 2016 Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
They are advised the Code.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and supported by the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary FRC and the full text is available on its website at frc.
and their key responsibilities are set out below.
The Company has complied throughout 2018 with the requirements Chairman John McAdam of the Code.
The Corporate Governance Report, in addition to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee Reports, details how Leading and managing the Board.
the Company has applied the main principles of the Code.
Setting the agenda and managing the Boards time.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Code Principles regarding Leadership and Effectiveness Director induction, training and development.
Building a well-balanced Board, considering succession planning and its See the Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 70 and composition.
theNomination Committee Report on pages 77 to 80.
Performance evaluation of the Board and Chief Executive.
Code Principles regarding Accountability See the Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 70 and Chief Executive Andy Ransom theAudit Committee Report on pages 71 to 76.
Code Principles regarding Remuneration Recommending and executing strategies and strategic priorities.
Managing operational and financial performance, including monthly performance See the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 97. reviews with all regions and identifying and managing risks to delivery of strategy.
With the Chief Financial Officer, explaining performance to shareholders.
Code Principles regarding Relations with Shareholders Chairing the Executive Leadership Team and Investment Committee See the Corporate Governance Report on page 70. see page 68.
Executive management capability and development.
Further key areas which set out our approach to applying the Code Overall development of Group policies including safety, health & environment can be found in the Annual Report as detailed below.
SHE and communicating the Companys vision and values.
Responsibility for all corporate responsibility matters which are reviewed at See our business model, value generation and strategy in our least annually by the Board.
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 54.
See our approach to risk management and internal control on Chief Financial Officer & Chief Information Officer page 69 and in our Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 42 to 47.
Jeremy Townsend See our Directors Report on pages 167 to 169.
Supporting the Chief Executive in developing and implementing strategy.
See the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 169.
Supporting the Chief Executive in managing the operational and financial performance of the Group.
In July 2018 a revised UK Corporate Governance Code was published With the Chief Executive, explaining performance to shareholders.
Chairing the Group Risk Committee and Disclosure Committee see page 68. which applies to financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 Recommending appropriate financing, treasury and distribution arrangements.
We will begin reporting under the 2018 Code in our Executing the agreed IT strategy.
We have, however, tried to address elements of improved reporting proposed in supporting guidance published by the FRC and others in relation to the 2018 Code wherever possible.
Senior Independent Director Richard Burrows Further information on the steps we have taken since the publication of the 2018 Code to address changes to corporate governance and Leading the Non-Executive Directors appraisal of the Chairman.
corporate reporting can be found on page 57 and throughout the Working with the Chairman on Board effectiveness.
Providing an alternative channel of communication for investors, primarily on corporate governance matters.
Being a sounding board for the Chairman.
The role of the Board Chairing the Nomination Committee when it is considering succession to the The Boards role is to govern the Company within a framework of prudent role of Chairman of the Board, and leading the Chairman succession process.
and effective controls that enables risks to be assessed and managed.
It operates to ensure that we are delivering excellent operational performance and innovative services for our customers in order to create Independent Non-Executive Directors sustainable, long-term value for shareholders.
The Board reviews the Richard Burrows, Sir Crispin Davis, John Pettigrew, Companys strategic aims, based on recommendations made by the Angela Seymour-Jackson, Julie Southern, Linda Yueh Chief Executive, and ensures that sufficient resources are available for the successful execution of these aims.
The Board is kept abreast of Contributing independent challenge and rigour.
performance and of any major developments affecting the business Assisting in the development of the Companys strategy.
by reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer at each Ensuring the integrity of the financial information, controls and risk management processes.
The Board strives to operate in an ethical and transparent Monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors against agreed goals manner at all times and sets the tone for the Company from the top.
Advising and being a sounding board for Executive Directors and senior Details of the governance framework within which the Board operates to management.
discharge its responsibilities can be found on page 68.
This framework, along with clearly communicated authority guidelines, provides the Board with confidence that the appropriate decisions are being taken Company Secretary Daragh Fagan at the appropriate levels and further allows the Board to ensure that itsobligations to the Companys shareholders and other stakeholders Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees.
Assisting the Chairman and Senior Independent Director in their evaluation of the Boards effectiveness.
Advising the Board and its Committees on governance matters and managing effective corporate governance and compliance arrangements for the Board and the Group.
Facilitating Board induction and development programmes.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 62 Corporate Governance Report Full details of all Board members who served during 2018 and in 2019 Independence and tenure to the date of this report can be found on pages 58 and 59.
The independence of Directors is reviewed as part of the individual Director performance evaluation process, to ensure that all NonThe division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Board members retain the necessary independence of Executive is set out in writing.
Non-Executive Directors have regular judgement.
This continues to be reflected in constructive challenge to opportunities to meet with members of executive management and the executive team and senior management at Board and Committee also hold discussions under the leadership of the Chairman without meetings, and during informal interaction outside those meetings.
At least once a year, Non-Executive Directors meet under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director Any changes to the commitments of a Director are reported to the Board.
without the Chairman being present.
In 2018, this took place prior to Directors regularly review a conflicts register and any conflicts identified Februarys Board meeting.
A Nomination Committee comprising all the are submitted to the Board for consideration and, as appropriate, Independent Non-Executive Directors and chaired by the Chairman has authorisation in accordance with our Articles of Association and the responsibility for managing the appointment process to ensure a formal, Companies Act 2006.
No material conflicts have been declared.
Further rigorous and transparent procedure for appointing Directors.
Pro-forma details of this process can be found in the Nomination Committee Report letters of appointment and Directors service contracts are available for on page 80.
Details of the Directors share interests in the Company can public inspection on our website.
be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 91.
There were no Board changes in 2018 except for the appointment of All our Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, have John Pettigrew to the Board at the beginning of January, but a detailed been determined by the Board to be independent, having retained and rigorous process was run in the second half of the year and into their independence of character and judgement.
In making this 2019 to identify the next Chairman.
Board succession plans as a whole determination the Board has taken into account indicators of potential were reviewed periodically during the year, and formed part of the non-independence as set out in the Code.
No Director took part in the Board evaluation questionnaires.
Further information on the Chairman Boards consideration of their own independence.
succession process, as well as appointment and succession planning Richard Burrows, having served for a period of 11 years, will step down more generally, can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on as a Non-Executive Director following the conclusion of the Companys pages 77 to 80.
As detailed elsewhere, John McAdam also intends The Board considers that it and its Committees have an appropriate to step down as Chairman of the Company at the 2019 AGM.
Further composition to discharge their duties effectively and to manage information on the Chairman succession process and the planned succession issues.
The Board keeps its membership and that of its appointment, subject to shareholder approval, of a new Chairman can Committees under review to ensure that an appropriate balance is be found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 77 and 78. maintained.
All Directors may serve on a number of other boards, provided that they Directors tenure at 27 February 2019 years can demonstrate that any such appointment will not interfere with their time commitment to the Company.
Historically, the prior agreement 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 of the Chairman must be agreed before proceeding.
In order to Executive Directors comply with the 2018 Code, in December 2018 the Board revised the Andy Ransom appointed 1 May 2008 procedure and Board not just Chairman approval must now be sought in advance of any external appointments being made.
Any potential Jeremy Townsend appointed 31 August 2010 conflicts of interest are considered and addressed prior to appointment.
The major commitments of the Directors are shown in their biographical Non-Executive Directors information on pages 58 and 59.
Currently Non-Executive Directors are John McAdam appointed 14 May 2008 obliged to commit at least 20 days a year and the Chairman is obliged to commit at least two days a week to the Company.
Richard Burrows appointed 14 January 2008 The issue of Board Directors becoming overcommitted by taking on too Sir Crispin Davis appointed 20 July 2017 many potentially onerous positions, including the need to retain flexibility to deal with unforeseen events, is recognised and is monitored in line John Pettigrew appointed 1 January 2018 with published investor guidance.
The fact that several of the members Angela Seymour-Jackson appointed 5 March 2012 of the Board hold multiple non-executive positions has not presented any difficulties in their ability to manage potentially competing demands Julie Southern appointed 21 July 2014 for their time.
The Chairman typically attends all Committee meetings by invitation and Non-Executive Directors often attend too, even Linda Yueh appointed 1 November 2017 where they are not members of the relevant Committee.
All Directors have demonstrated high levels of availability and responsiveness for additional meetings and discussions where these have been required.
At present there is therefore no concern that other board commitments have affected any Directors availability or effectiveness in carrying out their Board responsibilities with us, but this will continue to be kept under review.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 63 Corporate Governance Report Meetings and attendance Board agenda and activity The Board met eight times during the year, all of which were scheduled The Board agenda is set by the Chairman, with the assistance of the meetings, and a Committee of the Board met four times in relation to the Company Secretary.
Each Board meeting starts with a review of health release of financial results and trading updates.
The membership and and safety performance and the Board receives reports from the Chairs attendance at Board meetings during 2018 is shown below.
of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees following each committee meeting.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer present a report Board members and attendance in 2018 of business performance and key business activities at each meeting.
John McAdam Chairman Angela Seymour-Jackson In addition, the Board normally receives detailed presentations 8 8 meetings attended 8 8 meetings attended from all the Regional Managing Directors of the Company and their Finance Directors over the course of the year.
These review the operations and strategy of the region, highlight specific areas of progress or challenge, review the financial and control environment, Richard Burrows Julie Southern and present the opportunity for the Board to challenge management 8 8 meetings attended 8 8 meetings attended on any area.
In 2018 the Board received presentations from each region, apart from UK & Rest of World which was deferred to 2019, and also ledan additional deep dive review on the Groups fast-growing business Sir Crispin Davis Jeremy Townsend in Central and Latin America.
8 8 meetings attended 8 8 meetings attended The Board agenda is set to include major acquisitions and other strategic initiatives, financial performance and governance matters.
Board activities are structured to enable the Board to support senior John Pettigrew Linda Yueh management on the development and delivery of the Groups strategy 7 8 meetings attended 8 8 meetings attended within a transparent governance framework.
The table below sets out an overview of the key activities undertaken by the Board during 2018.
Andy Ransom 8 8 meetings attended All Board members attended all meetings apart from one instance due to a conflicting commitment which was known prior to appointment and which was not able to be changed by either party.
As in all cases where a Director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, copies of all papers are still received in advance and the Chairman will seek the individuals views ahead of the meeting and provide a briefing on any relevant outcomes from the meeting.
Board activities in 2018 Strategy and operations Matters considered Discussion and outcome Find out more Strategic progress The Board closely monitors progress against the Companys strategy and this is communicated to the Board at each meeting in the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officers reports.
Strategy away day The Board held a strategy event over two days, addressing current challenges and future Board strategy review on opportunities.
page 65 and Our big five challenges on page 14.
Capital Markets Days The Board received an overview of the plans for the investor days ahead of the events and were Engagement with invited to attend the one in London.
Regional presentations The Board received presentations from each of the Regional Managing Directors, excluding the See above for more UK & Rest of World.
Overseas site visit The Board visited Italy in June to conduct an in-depth review of the business in Europe.
See page 65 for more information.
Annual operating plan The Board approved the 2018 operating plan in January and considered the draft 2019 operating plan in December.
The Board also considered how the Companys acquisition activities are reflected in analysts growth projections.
Contract approvals above The Board considered and approved several customer and supplier contracts during the year.
set threshold Brexit The Board received a further paper on the potential impact of Brexit on the business, updating See page 107 for more previous analysis in 2017. information.
UK Competition & Markets The Board received regular updates on ongoing CMA investigations of two UK acquisitions during See pages 34 and 37 for more Authority CMA investigations the year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 64 Corporate Governance Report Financial Matters considered Discussion and outcome Find out more 2017 financial results The Board or its appointed committee approved the 2017 Annual Report, 2018 Notice of Meeting and the preliminary results announcement.
The Board confirmed that it was appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis and approved the viability statement.
2018 Interim Results and Q1 The Board or its appointed committee approved the 2018 Interim Results, confirming that it and Q3 Trading Updates was appropriate for them to be prepared on a going concern basis, and approved the Q1 and Q3 Trading Updates.
Dividend Having regard to our progressive dividend policy the Board recommended a final dividend for 2017 Dividend on page 107. of 2.74p and approved an interim dividend for 2018 of 1.311p during the year.
Review of financial performance The Chief Financial Officer presents a summary of financial performance at each meeting.
In 2018, Financial review on pages 104 key areas of focus included financial reporting in North America.
Approval of treasury policies The Board annually reviews the Companys treasury policies and considers financing options when See Note C1 on page 140 for and funding required.
During the year the Board approved the amendment and extension to the Companys more information.
Investor relations The Chief Executive updates the Board on investor relations at each meeting, circulating a selection Engagement with of broker notes, and a more in-depth analysis being provided at least annually.
Tax strategy The Board considered and approved the Groups 2018 tax strategy.
This is available to view on our website.
Pensions The Board received several briefings on a potential pension scheme buy-in which was approved See page 125 for more and announced in December.
Mergers and acquisitions M&A Matters considered Discussion and outcome Find out more Performance acquisition Twice during the year the Board assessed the post-acquisition performance of acquisitions Our big five challenges on reviews PARs completed in the prior 12-30 months, including the delivery of integration plans.
M&A pipeline At most meetings, the Board receives an update on the status of current M&A negotiations including a pipeline report.
Major transactions above 10m The Board considered and approved six acquisitions above 10m consideration during the year.
See pages 34 and 37 for more information.
Governance and compliance Matters considered Discussion and outcome Find out more Articles of Association The Board considered and proposed new Articles of Association for adoption at the AGM in May 2018.
Our current Articles can be found on our website.
Board evaluation The Board discussed the reports from the 2017 performance review at its February meeting and Performance evaluation on agreed key actions for the year.
The 2018 performance review commenced in November.
Corporate Responsibility Report The Board approved the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report.
This report is available on our website.
Governance procedures review The Board annually reviews its governance procedures and practices.
It also reviewed and updated and oversight the Companys Share Dealing Code and procedures during the year, approved an Unclaimed Dividends and Untraced Shareholders Policy, and noted the Companys 2018 charitable donations.
Conflicts of interest The Board noted the most recent conflicts of interest register at each meeting, approving potential Managing conflicts of interest conflicts if required.
Corporate governance tracker The Board reviews a forward-looking corporate governance tracker twice a year to identify forthcoming governance developments and to ensure necessary compliance actions are taken.
2018 UK Corporate The Board received a presentation from the Company Secretary on the new Code and other Statement of compliance on Governance Code regulatory changes after its publication in July.
Workforce engagement The Board considered the new requirements on workforce engagement, reviewing current See page 70 for more practices and approving the proposed approach for 2019. information.
Company culture The Board considered the culture of the Company and agreed the approach for reporting against Workplace culture on this in 2019. pages 53 and 54.
Modern slavery The Board approved the Companys Modern Slavery Statement for 2017.
This can be found on our website.
Data privacy The Board received a detailed update on GDPR compliance during the year.
Monitoring and oversight on page 69.
Pension trustee non-compliance During the year, Rentokil Initial Pension Trustee Limited was fined by the Pensions Regulator for failing to file valuations for two years for a legacy pension scheme.
The Board considered the steps taken by management as a result.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 65 Corporate Governance Report Monitoring and oversight Matters considered Discussion and outcome Find out more Safety, health and environment The Board receives a SHE update at each meeting.
During the year it considered electrical safety Corporate responsibility on SHE following a fatality and the health and safety environment in India following the formation of the pages 48 to 52.
Review of key risks and internal The Board receives a report at the start of the year on the most significant risks facing the Group.
Risks and uncertainties on controls It also reviews and approves, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the principal risks pages 42 to 47. to be disclosed in the Annual Report.
Reports from the Committee The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees provide a verbal report to the Chairs Board after each meeting.
Review of material disputes The Board received a litigation report on a quarterly basis.
There was no material contingent liability arising from legal action during 2018.
Cyber risk The Board received a presentation on cyber security from the Global Head of IT Security.
Board site visit Board strategy review Each year one scheduled Board meeting is held as part of a larger In addition to regular scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings, site visit to one of the Companys operations.
In June 2018, the Board the Board undertakes an annual strategy away day each year.
This is travelled to Milan following the acquisition of CWS-bocos operations structured to follow a scheduled Board meeting and is spread over the in Italy in 2017 as part of the broader joint venture transaction.
The agenda for the strategy away day is agreed acquisition of CWS-boco Italia roughly doubled the size of the Groups inadvance, including specific strategic issues which have been raised Hygiene business operations in Italy.
The Board visited the brand atprevious Board meetings or have been requested by the Board.
new headquarters outside Milan, just one month after consolidation We have been putting our RIGHT WAY strategy into action at pace over of the two former head offices which brought 120 employees together the last five years and the focus of the 2018 strategy away day, through into a single site.
The Board met with Italian management and a series of presentations and discussions, centred on the significant colleagues during the office tour, and received brief presentations opportunities to deliver further value for shareholders over the next from each department, which demonstrated both the complexity of three years.
The opportunities considered included: theintegration project but also the clear enthusiasm from employees driving organic growth in Pest Control through increased deployment ofboth former organisations for the opportunity the transaction of innovation, the pursuit of less established lines of business, and presented in the Italian market.
stronger execution: While in Milan, the Board also visited the headquarters of a luxury further leveraging our global leading Pest Control business through gym chain, a key Hygiene and premium scenting customer, where M&A with a particular focus on North America: the companys Managing Director shared their vision and strategy driving growth and yield management in Hygiene with potential and the importance of the Italian market and innovative technologies.
further expansion into new lines of business such as premium scenting: The Board also received presentations from our European and the French Workwear business achieving sustainable profitable Southern Europe management teams.
growth: using technology to improve customer retention, increase sales and reduce costs as well as mitigating the potential risk of commoditisation through digital disruption : and becoming world class, both in effectiveness and efficiency, in core functional areas and in development and retention of our people through our Employer of Choice initiative.
As well as presentations from many members of our senior management team, the Board received a briefing from the Companys brokers on market perspectives.
At the end of the first day they also had the opportunity to participate in an innovation showcase provided by members of our Marketing & Innovation team.
Board dinner with Europe management team during visit to Milan in June 2018 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 66 Corporate Governance Report Board performance, training and development The Board ensures that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership for the Company through a regular performance evaluation process, training processes, Board succession planning and annual re-election by shareholders.
Director induction process Following the appointment of any new Director, the Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that a full, formal and customised induction to the Company is made available.
The induction process is summarised below.
On appointment, the Company Secretary provides information on the Groups businesses, including: Board and relevant Committee minutes and Board papers from the most recent meetings held: key policies, procedures and governance information about the Company, including the Code of Conduct, Board Governance Manual, Corporate Responsibility Report and the Group Authority Matrix: details of the Group structure: analysis of the Companys key shareholders and share capital: copies of the most recent Board and any relevant Committee evaluation reports: and guidance for Directors on their legal and regulatory responsibilities in a UK publicly listed company, including briefings, on request, from the Companys external legal advisors.
Before and after the first Board meeting the new Director will: Non-Executive Director induction attend business briefings with the Chief Executive and the Chief Visitto the Power Centre Financial Officer: attend meetings with other members of the Executive Leadership As part of their ongoing induction John Pettigrew and Team and senior management: Linda Yueh visited the Power Centre in September 2018. participate in visits to sites within the UK and or overseas, such The Power Centre is our science, innovation and training as the Power Centres research and training facilities, including academy in the UK.
Named after our former Chief opportunities to spend time shadowing frontline sales and service staff in the course of their duties: and Marketing Officer, Stewart Power, it was opened in 2017. be offered meetings with relevant external advisors such as the Dr Andy Brigham, General Technical Manager, Science external auditor, remuneration advisors, financial advisors and and Service, oversaw the tour which included the corporate brokers.
Directors being shown the facilities, including technology New directors also undertake the same online induction modules in being developed or applied, and the training academy U our online learning and development platform as new colleagues and testcentre.
More information on our Power Centre on core compliance subjects such as the Code of Conduct, anti-bribery can be found on pages 6 and 7. and corruption, competition law, insider training and information securityand privacy.
The induction process typically takes place over several months.
Following a review of the induction process a questionnaire was developed for completion by Directors after 12 to 18 months of appointment to provide an opportunity for feedback, to review the effectiveness of the induction, and to highlight areas for improvement.
Training and development Directors are provided with opportunities to participate in peer group discussion forums and seminars related to the listed company There is no substitute for getting environment and targeted at specific needs, for example executive remuneration, financial reporting or risk management.
Training this kind of first-hand experience opportunities also cover the Group, its business sectors and governance matters more generally, including individual experiences and seeing in practice what makes with frontline staff.
The session The questionnaire detailed above also provides the opportunity toreview training and development needs and identify any further was hugely helpful for me and I also areasof focus.
enjoyed hearing your thoughts and insights throughout the afternoon.
JOHN PETTIGREW Non-Executive Director Email sent to Shaun Hall, Pest Control Senior Technician, following his ride along accompanying Shaun on site visits.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 67 Corporate Governance Report Performance evaluation A comprehensive evaluation of the Board, its Committees and each of the Directors is carried out annually, a process led by the Chairman and supported by the Company Secretary.
Over the last few years this has been undertaken each year using an external independent facilitator, Lintstock.
However, following discussion of the most effective and appropriate process for ongoing performance evaluation it was agreed that the 2018 Board review should be undertaken in-house using questionnaires, with a view to a more in-depth interview evaluation process being conducted by an external facilitator in 2019.
The 2018 evaluation process involved tailored online questionnaires.
These considered the performance of the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and the strategy away day.
The evaluation is initiated after the strategy away day with responses collated and analysed by the end of the year.
There are then reviews of the results with the Chairman, Committee Chairs, Senior Independent Director and individual Directors ahead of a group discussion at the Board meeting in February.
The responses to the 2018 evaluation were strongly positive on the performance of the Board, Committees and strategy away day.
The areas that emerged as topics for renewed focus in 2019 included board succession especially for the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chair which have been addressed with the appointments announced on 28th February 2019, longer-term executive succession planning, enhancing exposure of the Board to management including attendance at senior management meetings, use of overseas visits and involvement in talent development.
The strategy away day was very highly rated, with a desire to see more regular insight into key competitors and to build on the excellent progress of the Employer of Choice agenda.
The Board considered the output from the 2018 review at its meeting in February 2019 and agreed the actions for 2019 as detailed below.
Operational Actions for 2018 Progress during 2018 Actions for 2019 business reviews Focus on North America performance and Detailed reviews of North America Focus on deep dives on key competitors.
business at strategy away day and Detailed review of execution of digital Deepen Board understanding of digital December Board meeting.
strategy, including artificial intelligence, strategy.
Detailed review of digital strategy at strategy away day.
and execution at strategy away day.
Consider organisational capacity and Continued to consider competitive executive succession.
Risk oversight Actions for 2018 Progress during 2018 Actions for 2019 Deep dive review of one key risk per Risks considered in-depth during 2018 Focus on technical standards compliance meeting throughout the year.
included growth, product development, including fumigation.
Review data privacy and GDPR financial market risks and Brexit, Maintain focus on cyber security and compliance programme.
succession, M&A and integration, and data privacy.
Undertake Board review of culture and cyber-security.
Improve understanding of the risk workforce engagement.
A detailed GDPR update was provided framework, management and mitigation Increased monitoring of effectiveness to the Board in 2018.
Ongoing updates efforts i. e. beyond identification.
of internal controls and internal audit are provided to the Audit Committee via Refine and optimise culture and resourcing.
A review of culture and workforce Enhance engagement with proxy engagement was undertaken during agencies and investor representatives.
Review of internal audit resourcing is ongoing with a report planned for early 2019.
Succession Actions for 2018 Progress during 2018 Actions for 2019 planning Continue to monitor progress in talent Talent strategy update provided by the Focus on smooth Board succession for and talent pools and executive succession Group HR Director.
Chairman, Senior Independent Director management bench strength.
The Board met with over 75% of SLF and Remuneration Committee Chair.
Increased exposure of SLF members to members during 2018.
Enhance longer-term executive the Board e. g. during June overseas visit.
Succession for the SID and Remuneration succession planning.
Board succession plans for Committee chair were considered as Increase engagement of Board with Remuneration Committee chair and part of Board succession plans by the senior management and talent pool Senior Independent Director roles.
Monitor impact of updated diversity The Nomination Committee received policies.
reports on the impact and effectiveness of the Group and Board diversity policies.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 68 Corporate Governance Report Governance framework The Board of Directors Collectively responsible for the governance of the Company, the Board ensures that it is effective at undertaking its duties through the use of clear authority and reporting governance structures.
Board Management Executive committees committees leadership Remuneration Committee Disclosure Committee Chief Executive Reviews and recommends the executive Supports the Boards responsibility Manages the overall performance of the remuneration policy to the Board and for the accuracy and timeliness of the business and, with senior management, determines the remuneration packages disclosures made by the Company and implements the Groups strategies of the Executive Directors and senior compliance with the requirements of and values.
Executive Leadership Team Find out more on pages 81 to 97.
Group Risk Committee Supports the Chief Executive in managing Monitors the internal control environment the business at Group level, overseeing Audit Committee and reviews the effectiveness of the safety, performance, operational plans Provides effective financial governance Groups internal control policies and and actions, governance and risk with oversight of the Groups financial procedures for the identification, management.
The Executive Leadership and narrative reporting, risk management assessment and reporting of risks.
Team membership is provided on and the external and internal audit page 60. process.
Investment Committee Senior Leadership Forum Reviews and approves investments Find out more on pages 71 to 76. below the threshold requiring approval by Forums where the 25 most senior Nomination Committee the Board, including M&A transactions, operational and functional colleagues property sales and investments and globally meet to share progress and Ensures the correct balance, structure environmental remediation expenditures.
discuss a range of issues that are critical and composition of the Board and its It also conducts post-acquisition reviews to the operational performance of the Committees, and reviews Board and PARs of completed M&A transactions Group as a whole.
executive succession planning and and reviews material litigation quarterly.
Category Boards Treasury Committee Find out more on pages 77 to 80.
Forums where the senior operational Reviews and approves capital structure and functional leaders of Pest Control and financing strategy as well as risk and and Hygiene meet to coordinate the cash management within set thresholds.
development agenda for innovation, growth and productivity initiatives and to oversee the sharing of best practice.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 69 Corporate Governance Report Board review of risk management and internal control Matters reserved for the Board and delegated authorities The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining sound systems To ensure a clear division of responsibilities at the top of the Company of risk management and internal control that are both fully effective between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility and ensure compliance with the Code on internal control and risk for running the Companys business, the Board has set out in writing management.
Risks are considered in the context of long-term strategic matters which are specifically reserved for its decision.
The matters and emerging threats, and shorter-term risks to the delivery of the reserved for the Board and the terms of reference of each of its annual operating plan.
The Board has also assessed the viability of the Committees, which are reviewed annually, most recently on 13 December Group over a period of three years, the potential impact of the principal 2018, are available on our website.
risks and stress testing financial forecasts for severe but plausible The Boards governance procedures delegate the day-to-day scenarios, and the anticipated effectiveness of mitigating actions.
management of the Groups businesses to the Chief Executive who in The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks turn cascades authority to the wider management population through facing the Company, including those that would impact its business a documented schedule of authorities, setting out responsibilities, model and future performance.
The principal risks identified can be decision-making and approval powers of managers at different levels found in the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 42 to 47, along in the organisation.
with the Companys viability statement.
Details of briefings on risk and control topics which were provided to the Board during 2018 can be Monitoring and oversight found on pages 63 to 65.
Policies The Company has a robust Group-wide policy and procedure The framework of risk management and internal control described framework in place to supplement local policies or legislation.
The in the Audit Committee Report on pages 75 and 76 is designed to content and appropriateness of policies are reviewed periodically by manage and mitigate risk rather than eliminate the risk of failure to the relevant functional department head and approved by the Chief achieve business objectives.
In pursuing business objectives, internal Executive.
The cornerstone of this policy framework is the Code of controls and risk management can only provide reasonable, and not Conduct.
Our key policies are set out on page 49, with full details of absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Review of its ourpolicies relating to environmental, social and governance matters effectiveness is achieved through regular and transparent management and their application being disclosed in our Corporate Responsibility reporting, the governance processes and external and internal Report.
Key policies are also published on our website.
In addition to assurance processes, and in the Audit Committee and Boards annual the policies described there, the Company has a treasury policy in place review of strategy and operational risks.
to ensure the Group has sufficient liquidity and to manage financial risk The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of as outlined in Note C1 to the Financial Statements on pages 139 and internal control for the year ended 31 December 2018 and confirms that: 140.
In 2018, the Board reviewed and approved the Companys tax the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and strategy which has been published on our website in compliance with managing the significant risks faced by the Group: the Finance Act 2016.
More details on tax governance can be found this process has been in place for the year under review and up to onpage 106. the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: Specific programmes are in place to support implementation of the the process is regularly reviewed by the Board: and Code of Conduct and underlying policies, national laws and regulations, the process operates in accordance with the Code.
and monitoring and reporting compliance with them.
In some cases Fair, balanced and understandable dedicated specialists are in place to ensure that standards are set and complied with, for example in health and safety, IT security and The Directors statement on fair, balanced and understandable can data privacy, regulatory compliance, pensions, and tax.
More broadly, be found on page 169.
The requirement under the Code to provide a fair, e-learning training, principally on our online learning and development balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position platform U, is used to ensure that expected standards of behaviour are and prospects in its external reporting is considered throughout the widely disseminated and adopted across the Group.
Clear guidelines process of producing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
are provided to all colleagues on how to seek further advice or report In order to provide the information necessary to comply with this concerns.
Compliance is monitored through an annual Letter of requirement, the Board places particular reliance on the conclusions Assurance process covering all Group senior management, and by and recommendations arising from the Audit Committees review of the monitoring control incidences reported via the Companys confidential Annual Report and Financial Statements, further details of which can be reporting process Speak Up.
The Group Risk Committee considers found on page 72.
In addition, the Board has oversight and takes into current and emerging risks, reviews current arrangements and makes account the following elements: recommendations for enhancements as appropriate.
the Chairman and Chief Executive provide input and agree on key In response to the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, elements to be included which set the tone and balance of the which came into force on 25 May 2018, we reviewed our data Strategic Report: privacy arrangements across Europe and established a multidisciplinary all contributors to the Annual Report are made aware of the project team in 2017 to achieve compliance, reporting to the Group requirement for content to be fair, balanced and understandable: General Counsel.
Significant work has since been undertaken to review regular review meetings are held with the appropriate senior existing business processes, conduct data privacy impact assessments management to ensure consistency of the whole document: and establishing systems to ensure that our handling of personal data extensive review and verification processes are undertaken by meets all the regulatory requirements, as well as appointing a Group the appropriate departments and senior managers to ensure the Data Protection Officer.
External consultants PA Consulting were accuracy of the content: and engaged to provide benchmarking and project assurance.
The Board additional independent internal reviews are undertaken to ensure received a detailed presentation on GDPR compliance at its meeting in that any perceived lack of clarity, balance or understanding in the May 2018.
During 2018 GDPR and data privacy awareness and training Annual Report is identified and addressed.
was rolled out online using our U platform and Google community to approximately 10,000 colleagues in 23 countries alongside videos and guidance documents being made available in 17 languages.
The Board also received an update on cyber security at its meeting in December 2018.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 70 Corporate Governance Report Annual General Meeting Engagement with shareholders The Board welcomes the opportunity to enter into dialogue with both As a Company we maintain effective channels of communication with private and institutional shareholders at the Annual General Meeting our debt and equity institutional investors and individual shareholders.
AGM and views it as an opportunity to engage with all our shareholders This helps us to understand their views about the Company and on the performance of the business they own.
allows us to make sure they are provided with timely and appropriate information on our strategy, performance, objectives, financing and The 2019 AGM will be held at 12 noon on 8 May 2019 in the Ascot other developments.
We do this in a number of ways.
Our shareholders Suite at the Hilton London Gatwick Airport, South Terminal Gatwick are invited to attend our twice-yearly presentations on our preliminary Airport, Gatwick, RH6 0LL.
A separate Notice of Meeting, containing and interim results.
Recognising that attending in person is not always an explanation of the items of special business, has been sent to going to be possible not least for our non-UK shareholders we have shareholders and is available on our website.
In accordance with the been providing live webcasting of our results days for over 10 years so Code, the Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders that all shareholders can be kept fully up to date of our progress and and will, therefore, be stepping down and seeking re-election at the strategic objectives going forward.
As John McAdam and Richard Burrows both plan to step down from the Board at the 2019 AGM neither will be put forward for re-election.
We believe Capital Markets Day presentations are an excellent way for As Richard Solomons has been appointed since the last AGM, in our shareholders to gain a deeper insight into our business.
We held accordance with the Code, he will be subject o election by shareholders two Capital Markets Days in May 2018, in London and New York, with at the AGM, being the first such meeting since his appointment.
a primary focus on our global Pest Control business.
These events wereboth very well attended and gave our investors the chance to Biographical information in respect of the Directors as well as meet with and engage with our wider senior management team from informationas to why the Board believes the Directors should be around the business.
electedand re-elected can be found on pages 58 and 59 and in the2019 Notice of Meeting.
We believe regular and ongoing engagement with our shareholders is paramount.
Members of our senior management and Investor Relations Engagement with colleagues and customers teams held 254 separate interactions with 181 different institutions The Company is aiming to be both a world-class service company and during 2018.
These were conducted through telephone calls and video a world-class Employer of Choice.
As an integral part of the Directors conferences, roadshows, one-to-one meetings, group meetings and duties, the Board considers the Companys relationships with its key conferences.
In 2018 we undertook investor roadshows in London and stakeholders and has this year continued to pay particular attention to participated in conferences in London, New York, Paris and Frankfurt.
achieving the strategic aims of the business and the means of monitoring Key subjects of discussion with our shareholders over the year have the value and culture which underpin such ambitions.
been the dynamics of the pest control industry, the Rentokil business model, our North America operations, pest control opportunities in Details of the ways in which we engage with our colleagues, customers Emerging markets, our use of technology and innovation to create and other key stakeholders can be found in the Corporate Responsibility value, leveraging M&A, our financial model to compound growth and section on pages 48 to 54, with further information also provided in our our focus on becoming an Employer of Choice.
2018 Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website.
We believe it is important that we receive feedback from our investors Board engagement with colleagues during 2018 and are seen to act upon it.
Our Board and the Senior Leadership During 2018, the Board met with over three quarters of the senior Team are given detailed quarterly updates of the Companys Investor management team.
In addition, as part of opportunities made available Relations activity which include feedback from investors, as well as to engage with colleagues, they: shorter commentary and updates at each Board meeting.
Specialist received regional deep dive presentations see page 63 : advisors and the Head of Investor Relations provide regular updates met with frontline staff as part of induction and ongoing development on market sentiment.
see page 66 : The Board fulfils its obligations of accountability to shareholders monitored Glassdoor see page 25 : throughclear and open reporting on current performance and met with members of the Companys graduate programme at the AGM: plans forthe future, engagement with shareholders and investor received verbal updates of the Employer of Choice agenda representative bodies, and taking into account the views expressed and other key colleague developments from the Chief Executive: and by shareholders.
Details of substantial share interests notified to the met with senior managers and frontline staff during the overseas Company are contained on page 168.
Board visit to Italy see page 65.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairs In 2018 the Board considered the new provision in the 2018 UK are available to attend meetings with investors as required, and will Corporate Governance Code in relation to workforce engagement, typically do so on a number of occasions annually.
The Chairman and which applies to reporting years starting on or after 1 January 2019. several of our Non-Executive Directors attended the Capital Markets The Board considered the suggested methods of engagement: the Day in London in May 2018, which offered the opportunity for them appointment of a Director from the workforce, the creation of a formal tomeet with existing and potential institutional investors and analysts.
workforce advisory panel, or having a designated Non-Executive TheChairman also attended the preliminary results presentation in Director.
However, having regard to the size and scale of our businesses London in March 2018.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee it was felt that none of these options could fairly represent the entire has engaged with investors in relation to our Directors Remuneration workforce.
It has, therefore, been decided to continue, at least initially, Policy as set out in the Remuneration Committee Report from page 81. touse existing engagement methods and enhance these where needed, while using a consolidated reporting framework to enable Our website rentokil-initial.
com contains information on the Companys the Board to monitor performance effectively.
The Board will receive operations and services.
The Investor section contains information on reports on these various forms of engagement during 2019 and will past results and publications, press releases and analyst presentation continue to develop methods of strengthening the employee voice material as well as dividend history.
It also contains information to in the boardroom.
These will be reported on in full in next years help shareholders manage their holdings, including providing the AnnualReport.
Examples of our current practices can be found in contact details of our Registrar, who manages all share administration theCorporate Responsibility section from page 48. on the Companys behalf.
Additional information for investors can be found on pages 170 and 171.
Read the 2019 Notice of Annual General Meeting at Read the 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
