Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises four independent non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman of the Board and is chaired by Debbie Hewitt.
It met three times during the year.
Membership and attendance is set out below: Membership Debbie Hewitt Chairman Graham Clemett Simon Cloke Mike Tye Paul May resigned 15 October 2018 Allan Leighton appointed 24 December 2018 Director Attendance Debbie Hewitt MBE Debbie Hewitt 3 3 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Simon Cloke 3 3 Mike Tye 3 3 Graham Clemett 3 3 1 Paul May 1 1 1 P aul May attended the one meeting of the Committee held before his resignation.
No meetings of the Committee were held since Allan Leightons appointment on 24 December 2018.
Biographies of all Committee members, including a summary of their experience, appear on pages 30 to 31.
Role of the Nomination Committee The principal role of the Committee is to review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees, to identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment to the Board and its committees and to keep under review the Groups broader executive leadership needs, together with Board and executive committee succession planning.
Key responsibilities The Committee discharges its responsibilities through regular meetings during the year.
The Committees key responsibilities are to: review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and make recommendations of any changes: give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and the executive leadership and executive succession needs of the Group: recommend to the Board Directors for annual re-election, and keep under review Directors being re-elected for a term exceeding six years and make recommendations for new Director appointments to the Board.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 37 Nomination Committee report continued 2018 Committee activities Chief Executive recruitment The Committee is required to hold two meetings per year as On 14 February 2019, Andy McCue, CEO, informed the Board set out in its terms of reference.
During 2018, the Committee of his decision to leave the Company due to extenuating considered the following matters: personal circumstances.
The Committee debated extensively the various options to support the CEO but understood that the potential need for a further non-executive Director: the decision for him to stand down was absolutely in the best the exit of a non-executive Director mid-term: interests of him and his family and therefore of the Company.
The Committee has agreed with Andy that he will remain in Gender Pay gap: position while his successor is being recruited.
An extensive executive succession planning and search is well underway to recruit the new CEO using an 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
external search consultant, Sam Allen Associates.
They do not have any other connection with the Company.
In addition, at the end of 2017 and beginning of 2018, the An announcement regarding the appointment will be made in due course.
Committee conducted an  effectiveness review.
Lintstock Limited was chosen to complete the Given this announcement, the Committee decided that it was exercise.
Outputs relating to the Nomination Committee included a skills audit of the current Board, a desire to sensible to postpone its search for an additional non-executive Director, until such time as the new CEO is recruited.
Simon see some external development for selected members of the Executive Committee and a conclusion to recruit a Cloke has agreed to remain on the Board as a non-executive Director for a period of up to a year, to ensure continuity whilst non-executive Director with technology and digital expertise.
The Board will then re-commence its search to recruit an additional non-executive Director with Board changes during the year In October 2018, Paul May stepped down from the role technology and digital credentials and, at that point, Simon Cloke will step down from the Board.
The Committee recognises that Simon Cloke has completed On 24 December 2018, Allan Leighton, the chairman of Mabel Topco Limited the parent company of the Wagamama 9 years as a non-executive Director and has concluded that in all other aspects other than tenure, he remains independent Group was appointed as non-executive Director on the completion of the Wagamama acquisition.
Allan brings in his approach and contribution to the Board.
It has decided however, as explained above, for Simon to relinquish his a wealth of knowledge of the restaurant and leisure sector and other consumer businesses.
He is currently Chairman responsibility as Senior Independent Director and to ask Allan Leighton to step up to this position.
of a number of consumer focused businesses including Co-operative Group Limited and Entertainment One Limited Board and senior management diversity and was previously Chief Executive Officer of ASDA Group Limited, and Chairman of Pandora A S, Pace plc and On an ongoing basis, the Committee keeps under review the tenure and qualifications of the executive and non-executive Royal Mail.
Directors to ensure the Board has an appropriate and diverse mix of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity.
After 9 years as a non-executive director of the Company, Simon Cloke will cease being the Senior Independent The Committee continues to be aware of, and embrace, the non-executive director at the 2019 AGM.
Allan Leighton will become Senior Independent Director.
Hampton-Alexander Review on Improving Gender Balance in FTSE Leadership and its targets of 33% female representation on the executive committee and in their direct reports by 2020.
Although these recommendations do not apply to the Group, as it sits outside the FTSE 100, the Board is aligned on these ambitions.
As at the date of this report, the Board reflects 14% female representation and the executive committee excluding the executive Directors reflects 50% female representation.
38 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee also embraces the Parker Review on the ethnic Succession planning diversity of boards, and its recommendations concerning the The Nomination Committee keeps under review executive representation of people of colour on boards and in the senior committee succession planning to ensure the Company has management and executive ranks of organisations.
The Board a strong leadership pipeline.
The Committee also monitors the recognises the value of, and strongly supports, the principle of skill set and tenure of non-executive Directors to ensure the diversity generally, particularly cognitive diversity and over the appropriate mix of skill and independence is maintained.
The coming years will work to ensure that the Group maximises the Board currently has one Director 14% who has Board tenure benefits that a diverse management and workforce can bring.
The Board has commenced a search to replace that Director, but as described above will delay The aim of the Boards approach to diversity is to ensure that search until the new CEO is appointed.
He will step down that the Group has in place the most appropriate Board, from being the Senior Independent Director at the 2019 AGM, management and colleagues to represent and operate the but will remain on the Board until the new CEO and NED are business effectively for the benefit of all its stakeholders.
The Committee has debated and determined the skill set of candidates to be considered, and the profile reflects Further details on the Groups policy on diversity are included technology and digital marketing skills.
in the Corporate Governance report on page 25 and the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 16.
Annual re-election of Directors As required by the Code, all Directors are subject to annual Director induction re-election and as such, details setting out why each Director On joining the Board, Directors receive an induction on the is deemed to be suitable for reappointment will be included business, its strategy, the Boards role in setting the tone of with the AGM papers circulated to shareholders.
the Groups culture, and the Directors role and accountability for management information, decision making and behaviour.
Committee Governance A series of meetings takes place with key management and Terms of reference Board colleagues.
Non-executive Directors are actively The full terms of reference are available on the Companys encouraged to meet with operational management and to website at http: www.
com investors corporatevisit the Groups restaurants to enhance their understanding governance.
of the business, its brands, employees and processes.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee Training and development The Company acknowledges the importance of developing the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist Debbie Hewitt MBE in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant Chairman of the Nomination Committee courses and seminars to acquire additional skills and experience to enhance their contribution to the business.
15 March 2019 The Board also has collective training sessions on relevant topics from time to time.
In 2018 the Board had specific training on the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, Directors Duties and the General Data Protection Regulation.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 39
