Senior Management Risk Committee The Committee held five meetings in 2018.
The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and is required to meet at least four times a year.
The minutes Membership of the meetings are tabled at the subsequent Audit Committee The Committees membership comprises the Chief Executive meeting and the Chief Financial Officer reports to the Audit Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and not less than three Committee on its proceedings.
other members of the senior management team.
It currently includes the Company Secretary, the Group Financial Risk management process Controller, the Chief Information Officer, the Group People Each business unit or functional area of the Group is responsible Director, the Purchasing Director, Head of Technical Safety for identifying and assessing its risks at least half yearly.
This and the heads of the business divisions.
In addition, process identifies the gross risk, the likelihood of occurrence, employees from across the business attend Committee impact on the Group along with the mitigating controls in place.
meetings by invitation in order to assist the Committee in The Risk Committee formally reviews the risk register to form the discharging its duties.
consolidated view of the Groups principal risks.
Given that some risks are external and not fully within the Role of the Risk Committee Groups control, the risk management processes are designed to manage risks, so far as commercially possible, which may have a material impact on the business, rather than to fully Board mitigate all risks.
Overall responsibility for risk management Risk appetite The UK Corporate Governance Code requires companies to determine their risk appetite in terms of the nature and extent The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring of the principal risks faced and those they are willing to take business risks are effectively managed.
The Board regularly assesses the risks faced by the business and consider these when setting the business model and strategic objectives for the Audit Committee Group to ensure the business operates within appropriate risk parameters.
Delegated responsibility with regular review of risk management procedures The Board has delegated regular review of the risk management procedures to the Audit Committee and collectively reviews the overall risk environment on an annual basis.
Risk Committee Responsibility, review and management of individual business risks: aggregation of Group risk register The Risk Committee is responsible for governance over the Companys risk management processes, monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of the internal financial controls and risk management systems and reporting on risk management and risk exposures.
56 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risk factors Set out below is a list of what the Directors, in conjunction with the Risk Committee, consider to be the current principal risks of the Group together with the mitigation plans and risk management strategy.
This list is not presumed to be exhaustive and is, by its very nature, subject to change.
Risk Mitigating factors Economic & political risk Regular monitoring of economic climate and appropriate action plans.
Risk of adverse economic conditions and a Headline offers, competitive pricing and increased discounting to make decline in consumer confidence discretionary restaurants more affordable.
spend in the UK impacting sales growth.
Look at alternative selling channels e. g. Delivery, Click & Collect.
External events Development of delivery channels and online only brands.
Risk of exposure to short-term trading impacts Increased balance in the portfolio with trading across Leisure, Pubs, Concessions from adverse weather, sporting events e. g. and Wagamama.
World Cup and other major events.
Advance planning for upcoming major events.
Diversification of customer offering across food and drink ranges.
Leisure brands strategy Regular review of brand key metrics net promoter score, brand awareness Risk that we fail to develop and maintain and customer ratings.
attractive, desirable brands and that the mix Monitoring of competitor activity in TRG market segments.
of brands in our estate does not meet Issuing brand guidelines to ensure consistency of delivery and maintenance customer needs.
Regular review of social media ratings and customer feedback.
Key suppliers Contingency planning established for supply chain and key suppliers.
All key Risk of major failure disaster at key suppliers products dual-sourced.
jeopardising supply and causing loss of revenue Regular monitoring of suppliers and their performance.
Risk of major health scare Key supplier business continuity plans established.
Risk of loss or failure Communication and cooperation with key suppliers regarding Brexit planning.
of key contractors service providers to the restaurants.
Brexit risk to supply chain.
Proactive contractor performance management reviews.
New 5-year supply chain agreement in place with key supplier.
Cost price inflation Rolling programme of procurement tendering to secure either shorter or longer Risk of increased prices of key raw materials term contracts to mitigate price inflation.
including foreign currency fluctuations, Operations-led review of cost lines to improve cost efficiency.
service provision and utilities leading to Property & buying teams implementing energy saving initiatives to reduce utilities reduced profitability.
Risk of increased duties consumption.
and taxes leading to further cost pressures.
Ongoing negotiation with landlords and appeals process with local councils to reduce the impact of rent and rates increases.
Brexit changes to labour market Improved efficiency and labour deployment through scheduling tools and Risk of tighter Government controls on using benchmarking across sites.
Risk that impact of Brexit Cross-training of employees and apprenticeship schemes established.
on non-UK workforce makes it more difficult New programme being developed to attract, retain and develop the team, to attract and retain our workforce.
Risk that increased government regulation National including support with consequences of Brexit on non-UK employees.
Living Wage, National Minimum Wage and pensions increases our people costs.
Cybersecurity Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS v3.2 annual Risk of cybersecurity failure or incident leading compliance certification process.
to data loss, disruption of services, fines and Security programme established across all IT processes.
Continuing ASV scans and penetration tests and remediation.
Annual external IT audit process.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 57
