Audit Committee report The Audit Committee, comprising at least three independent non-executive Directors, is appointed by the Board and is chaired by Graham Clemett.
It met four times during the year.
Membership and attendance is set out below: Membership Graham Clemett Chairman Simon Cloke Mike Tye Paul May resigned 15 October 2018 Allan Leighton appointed 24 December Director Attendance Graham Clemett 4 4 Simon Cloke 4 4 Graham Clemett Mike Tye 4 4 Chairman of the Audit Committee Paul May 3 3 Note: Paul May attended all Committee meetings before his resignation.
There were no meetings in 2018 following Allan Leightons appointment on 24 December.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code the Board considers that Graham Clemett has significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
Biographies of all Committee members, including a summary of their experience, appear on pages 30 to 31.
On an ongoing basis the Board reviews the composition of the Committee to ensure that it remains proportionate to the task and provides sufficient scrutiny of risk management and internal and external controls.
The Committee regularly invites the external audit lead partner, the Chairman of the Board, the other non-executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer to its meetings.
The Committee meets privately with the external auditor at least twice a year and liaises with Company management in considering areas for review.
Role of the Audit Committee The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Companys financial reporting in advance of its consideration by the Board, reviewing the adequacy of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems, and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditor.
Key responsibilities The Committee discharges its responsibilities through Committee meetings during the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.
From time to time, the Committee commissions reports from external advisers or Company management in relation to the Companys major risks, or in response to developing issues.
32 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committees key responsibilities are to: reviewed the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices and provide additional assurance regarding integrity, quality and reliability of financial information used by the Board and in discussed the Groups long-term viability and going concern financial statements issued to shareholders and the public: statements.
review the Companys internal procedures on control and External audit: compliance for financial reporting to satisfy itself that these Submitted to the Board two audit firms, with the preference are adequate and effective: for appointment of Ernst & Young as external auditor review the principles, policies and practices adopted in the following an audit tendering process: preparation of the Groups financial statements to ensure received the external auditor review report on the Annual they comply with statutory requirements and generally Report and Accounts and Interim Report process and accepted accounting principles: discussed the 2018 year-end audit: review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys considered the scope and cost of external audit: risk management and internal control, supported by the Senior Management Risk Committee: considered the effectiveness of the external audit process: receive reports from the Groups external auditor concerning discussed the Board representation letter: external announcements, in particular the Annual Report considered the appropriateness of the Groups accounting and Accounts and the Interim Report: policies and practices and develop and oversee the Companys policy regarding the discussed the non-audit work carried out by the external external audit process, review the external auditors auditor and its impact on safeguarding audit independence.
independence, review the provision of non-audit services they provide and review and approve their remuneration: Internal control and risk management: review the whistleblowing arrangements whereby reviewed the Groups principal risk factors see page 57 : employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about reviewed the Companys internal controls and risk possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters, management systems: to ensure there are proportionate and independent received updates on the Groups General Data Protection procedures in place and review the operational Regulation GDPR compliance project: effectiveness of the Companys policies and procedures for detecting fraud or illegal acts and received updates on the internal review of the IT function, and cybersecurity and consider any other matter that is brought to its attention by the Board or the external auditor.
received regular reports and copies of the minutes from the Chairman of the Senior Management Risk Committee.
2018 Committee activities As required by its terms of reference, four formal meetings Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud of the Committee were held during 2018 to discharge its reviewed the operational effectiveness of the Companys responsibilities.
The Committee considered the following policies and procedures for detecting fraud or illegal acts matters: and reviewed the Whistleblowing Policy and the effectiveness Financial and narrative reporting: of the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
reviewed the full year and interim results and associated announcements: Committee governance: considered whether taken as a whole the Annual Report reviewed the Committee terms of reference and and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable conducted an externally facilitated Committee effectiveness and whether they provided the necessary information review.
for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy: The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 33 Audit Committee report continued Significant financial judgements In recommending the Annual Report and Accounts to the Board for approval, the Committee reviewed in particular the accounting and disclosure of the following key judgements: Matter considered Action taken by the Committee Impairment of property, plant and The Committee reviewed the proposals prepared by management setting out their equipment approach and challenged the key judgements made relating to impairment, such as forecast performance, allocation of central costs and discount rates, as well as reviewing this topic in discussion with the external auditor.
Onerous contracts and provisions The provision requires judgement and assessment of the facts across a range of likely associated with the review of the outcomes, which inherently involves significant estimation.
The Committee considered operating estate managements approach to the calculation of the provisions, again with particular attention paid to the key assumptions such as the expected time to exit, sublet, or cover the fixed cost base and the discount rate applied.
Disclosure around prior period During the year, the Group identified four matters requiring adjustment within the adjustments financial statements.
These relate to the accounting for capital contributions, allocation of central costs within impairment testing, classification of certain lease balances, and calculation of finance lease liabilities.
The Committee considered the adjustments, and discussed them with both Company management, and the external auditor.
Acquisition accounting The acquisitions of Ribble Valley Inns, Food & Fuel, and Wagamama require valuations to be performed on both the tangible assets, and any potential intangible assets.
The Group has recognised assets relating to the brand names, franchise relationships, and below market leases.
A liability has also been recognised for above market leases.
These valuations have been performed by experienced third parties, and the Committee has reviewed them with the management team.
Other areas considered included: Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee carried out an assessment of whether the managements approach to the review of distributable Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, reserves, and the resulting rectification of prior dividends: balanced and understandable and provide the information management override of controls and consideration of bias necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, underlying key estimates or judgements and performance, business model and strategy.
This assessment included a review for consistency of the narrative reporting completeness of revenue recognition, in terms of whether all and the financial statements and forms the basis of the advice of the cash and credit card receipts received at restaurants, given by the Committee to the Board to assist them in making or from delivery partners, are recognised in the financial this statement.
The Committee also considered the use of Adjusted No issues arose from our consideration of these matters.
Performance Metrics APMs in view of guidance from the European Securities & Markets Association, the equal Rectification of prior dividends prominence of such metrics and the definitions and In December 2017, the Company became aware of a technical reconciliations of these.
matter relating to the levels of distributable reserves and the payment of interim and final dividends to its shareholders Long-term viability and going concern statements during the period from 2006 to 2017.
The Committee was fully The Committee considered, with reference to a detailed involved in resolving this matter and oversaw the thorough management paper, the Groups going concern and long-term review by management into the historical position and the viability statements.
The factors used when assessing the administrative steps taken to rectify the position.
Groups viability for the next three years, together with the statement, are set out on page 14 and the Groups going concern statement on page 55.
34 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements External audit External Audit Tender The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the Having been the Groups external auditor since 2007, it was relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor.
mutually agreed with Deloitte that following the announcement Annually the Committee undertakes a review of the objectivity of the Groups 2017 results it would be an appropriate time and effectiveness of the audit process.
to appoint a new audit firm.
Deloitte agreed that they would resign once the Group had completed its tender process and Auditor effectiveness confirmed that there were no issues relating to their resignation When considering the suitability of the external auditor, the that needed to be brought to the Audit Committees attention.
Committee takes account of: Deloitte had been reappointed as auditor in 2017 following the findings set out in the Financial Reporting Councils a tender process that involved four audit firms, including one FRCs Audit Quality Review teams public reports on from outside the Big 4.
For the 2018 tender process, two audit audit firms: firms were invited to tender for the audit, this included one firm the ability of the external auditor to add value through that had not been involved in the previous tender process.
observations from the audit process and interactions The two prospective audit firms were provided with access to with the Companys management: an online data room to enable them to understand the Groups business and key risk areas, and separately met with the Audit the arrangements for ensuring the independence and Committee Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial objectivity of the external auditor: Officer and Group Financial Controller.
The two audit firms the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: were then invited to attend a face-to-face presentation and the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their discussion with a panel comprising of the Committee Chairman, two other members of the Committee, together handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and with the Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller.
the external auditors conclusions with regard to existing Following the presentations, the panel, chaired by the management and control processes.
Committee Chairman, assessed the strengths of each audit firm.
The Committee Chairman submitted to the Board the The Committee has informally discussed the effectiveness of two firms as possible firms for appointment but with a clear the external audit for the 2018 year-end, a formal assessment justified preference to appoint Ernst & Young.
The Board will be conducted after the approval of the financial statements discussed the recommendation and appointed Ernst & Young in March 2019.
The evaluation to date focused on: robustness as the Groups auditors upon the resignation of Deloitte on of the audit process, quality of delivery, timeliness of 27 September 2018. addressing key matters, reporting and people.
Following this review, it is therefore the Committees recommendation that the appointment of Ernst & Young be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May 2019.
If appointed, Ernst & Young will hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at which accounts are laid.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 35 Audit Committee report continued Auditor independence that the existing safeguards they had against independence To ensure the external auditor remains independent the threats were in place and appropriate, and that they had Committee takes into account the following: received independent internal approval to provide the requested non-audit services.
the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of the external audit lead partner and their length of tenure: Internal controls and risk management the arrangements for day-to-day management of the Internal audit function external audit relationship: The Committee keeps under regular review the scope of the Groups internal audit activity, which is currently solely focused a report from the external auditor describing their on site level operational reviews.
Given the recent increase in arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts scale and complexity of the Group, the Committee will be of interest: and reviewing in 2019 the need for a more extensive and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the formalised internal audit function.
external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Senior management Risk Committee As set out in the Risk Committees terms of reference, the Non-audit work and pre-approval policy Committee Chairman received regular reports on its activities The Company has an audit engagement policy in place which during 2018.
For further details on the membership, roles and is regularly reviewed.
Where non-audit work is carried out responsibilities and Risk Committee activities during 2018, by the external auditor, robust processes are put in place see page 56. to prevent auditor objectivity and independence being compromised.
Pre-approved services within the policy can The Groups principal risk factors are set out on page 57. be summarised as follows: Committee Governance audit-related services, including work relating to the annual Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and Committee terms of reference In November 2017, the Committee reviewed its terms of statutory accounts: reference and concluded that no changes were necessary review of the Groups Interim Report: and to the version adopted in November 2016.
The terms were certain extraction reporting services.
The full terms of reference are available on the Companys website at http: www.
com The Company is committed to minimising non-audit fees as investors corporate-governance.
far as is possible and practicable.
To safeguard objectivity and independence the Committee also assess whether the fees Committee effectiveness review are appropriate to enable an effective, high quality audit to An externally facilitated effectiveness review was carried out be conducted and independence maintained.
Further details by way of a questionnaire in December 2017, and concluded on non-audit services can be found in note 4 on page 85. in Feb 2018, by Lintstock Limited, a Board Effectiveness and Governance advisory firm.
This covered topics such as the In 2018 Ernst and Young were engaged to provide support on composition and management of the Committee, the quality the acquisition of Wagamama, including the role as Reporting of information it receives, its effectiveness in reviewing key Accountant and work on due diligence, working capital, profit areas of its responsibility, and potential areas for improvement forecast and other assurance work directly related to the in the Committees performance.
The review, which reported transaction.
As a result, their non-audit fees for the current to the Board in February 2018, did not identify any changes year are exceptionally high at 1,295,000, resulting in a ratio of that would materially improve the working of the Committee.
In agreeing that the work could be done by Ernst & Young, the Committee On behalf of the Audit Committee was mindful of the concern that investors have over auditors performing non-audit services and the new guidance in this area.
Taking into account the importance of the transaction Graham Clemett for the Group, the nature of these assurance related services, Chairman of the Audit Committee and the need to execute the Wagamama acquisition as expeditiously as possible, the Committee considered that it 15 March 2019 was in the best interests of the Group to have the auditors carry out these services.
Ernst & Young separately confirmed 36 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018
