Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report Chairmans introduction The purpose of this report is to explain how the Group is directed and controlled by the Board and to summarise how corporate governance arrangements have been implemented throughout the year.
The principal corporate governance rules applying to the Company are contained in the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules.
The Board is responsible for agreeing our strategy, providing independent oversight of the Companys performance, approving the funding and major capital allocations of the Group including acquisitions, taking account of the needs of all stakeholders and growing shareholder value.
The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility for running the Group to the Chief Executive, and passes specific responsibilities of oversight to various Board committees.
As Chairman, my role is to promote a culture of openness, within which the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information, to ensure that we are consulted with on all relevant matters: and to maintain effective communication with all of our stakeholders.
My personal objective is to provide clear and cohesive leadership of the Board, ensuring that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience to carry out its role effectively.
With the appropriate skills and experience in place, the Board provides constructive challenge and support to the executive Directors and promotes high standards of corporate governance.
The non-executive Directors discuss and agree the strategy and the relevant priorities with the executive Directors and hold the executives accountable for its execution.
We ensure that the appropriate culture, values and ethics are applied to promote the Companys long-term success, and that we send out consistent messages on the core values of the Company and acceptable behaviours from ourselves, our people, our suppliers and partners.
We have continued our progress in moving towards best corporate governance practice and we regularly review the context, progress and maintenance of these standards, for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
Debbie Hewitt MBE Chairman The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 21 Corporate Governance report continued Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate The Board Governance Code The Chairman, Senior Independent non-executive Director The Company is required to measure itself against the and other members of the Board, Audit Committee, UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code which Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee are is available on the Financial Reporting Council website set out in this Annual Report in the biographies of Directors.
The Board was further strengthened this year by two new appointments.
In February 2018, Kirk Davis joined as Chief Throughout 2018, the Company complied with the principles Financial Officer, bringing extensive finance experience within set out in the Code with the exception that the Remuneration listed leisure and retail businesses as CFO of Greene King plc Committee has comprised two independent non-executive and, before that, as Finance Director at J D Wetherspoon plc.
directors in addition to the Company Chairman instead of He has also held senior finance roles at Tesco plc and Marks three.
Simon Cloke will join the Committee in 2019, once & Spencer plc.
he relinquishes the role of Senior Independent Director.
It is intended that a third independent non-executive Director will In December 2018, Allan Leighton, the chairman of Mabel be appointed to the Remuneration Committee during 2019.
Topco Limited the parent company of the Wagamama Group was appointed as non-executive Director on the completion In addition, the Board considered it appropriate to exercise of the Wagamama acquisition.
Allan brings a wealth of the authority conferred by shareholders at the AGM, to hold knowledge of the restaurant and leisure sector and other the general meeting on 28 November 2018 to approve certain consumer businesses.
He is currently Chairman of a number resolutions in relation to the acquisition of Wagamama on of consumer-focused businesses including Co-operative 14 days notice, instead of the requirement under the Code Group Limited and Entertainment One Limited, and was for 14 working days notice, given the need to execute the previously Chief Executive Officer of ASDA Group Limited Wagamama transaction as expeditiously as possible.
and Pandora A S, and Chairman of Pace plc and Royal Mail.
He will become Senior Independent Director in May 2019, Further explanations of how the Main Principles of the Code taking over the role from Simon Cloke, who will have have been applied are set out below and also in the Directors completed nine years as a non-executive Director and Remuneration Report and the Audit Committee Report.
Simon will remain as a nonexecutive Director until the new CEO is appointed and the subsequent appointment of a new NED.
It is anticipated that Simon will step down from the Board by the 2020 AGM.
In October 2018, Paul May stepped down from the role of non-executive Director.
On 14 February 2019, Andy McCue, CEO, informed the Board of his decision to leave the Company due to extenuating personal circumstances.
A search is being undertaken to recruit a new CEO using an external search consultant, Sam Allen Associates.
They have no other connection with the Company.
Andy will remain in position while his successor is being recruited.
22 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board sets the tone of the Companys values and ethical Leadership standards and manages the business in a manner to meet its Role of the Board obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board The Boards role is to provide strong values-based leadership is responsible for reviewing, challenging and approving the of the Company, within a framework of prudent and effective strategic direction of the Group.
controls, which enable opportunities to be identified and risks to be assessed and appropriately managed.
The Board During the year, the business made good progress on reviews the Groups business model and strategic objectives implementing our strategic priorities of re-establishing the and looks to ensure that the necessary financial and human competitiveness of our Leisure brands, serving our customers resources are in place to achieve these objectives, to sustain better and more efficiently, growing our Pubs and them over the long-term and to review management Concessions businesses and building a leaner, faster and performance in their delivery.
We acquired the Ribble Valley Inns and Food & Fuel pub chains, and in December, the Group completed the acquisition of Wagamama, a leading pan-Asian restaurant brand.
The Directors who held office during 2018 were as follows: Director Role Details Debbie Hewitt Chairman Appointed Chairman May 2016, non-executive Director from May 2015.
Andy McCue Chief Executive Officer Appointed September 2016.
Kirk Davis Chief Financial Officer Appointed February 2018.
Simon Cloke Non-executive Director and Appointed March 2010, previously Chairman Senior independent Director of Audit Committee.
Mike Tye Non-executive Director and Appointed April 2016.
Chairman of Remuneration Committee Graham Clemett Non-executive Director and Chairman Appointed June 2016. of Audit Committee Paul May Non-executive Director Appointed July 2017.
Allan Leighton Non-executive Director Appointed December 2018.
Will become Senior Independent Director from May 2019.
The Board considers each of the non-executive Directors to be independent, including the Chairman of the Board, as set out in the Code.
Each Director demonstrates the skills and experience the Board requires for the success of the Group.
Biographies of the current Directors are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 23 Corporate Governance report continued Division of responsibilities The Senior Independent non-executive Director is available to Andy McCue, Chief Executive Officer, together with the senior liaise with any shareholders who have concerns that they feel management team, is responsible for the day-to-day running have not been addressed through the normal channels of the of the Group and regularly provides reports on performance Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically Non-executive Directors maintain an ongoing dialogue with reserved for its consideration which includes items such the executive Directors, which includes constructive challenge as: the approval of the annual budget and business plan, of the Groups strategy and of day-to-day performance.
approval of the Groups interim and year-end reports, review The non-executive Directors are provided with insightful and and approval of significant capital expenditure, significant appropriate information to allow them to monitor, assess disposals of assets and acquisitions or disposals of and challenge the executive management of the Group.
Any matter not formally reserved to the Board is generally delegated to management, unless it has some unusual or significant feature which makes it appropriate for it to be considered by the Board.
Meetings and attendance A summary of the Directors attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees that they were eligible to attend during 2018 is shown below.
Unless otherwise indicated, all Directors held office throughout the year: Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee appointments Board Committee Committee Committee Debbie Hewitt Nom Rem 17 17 n a 3 3 8 8 Andy McCue n a 17 17 n a n a n a 1 Kirk Davis n a 16 16 n a n a n a Simon Cloke Audit Nom 17 17 4 4 3 3 n a 2 Graham Clemett Audit Nom Rem 17 17 4 4 3 3 7 8 3 Paul May Audit Nom 11 11 3 3 1 1 n a 4 Mike Tye Audit Nom Rem 16 17 4 4 3 3 8 8 1 Kirk Davis was appointed to the Board on 5 February and attended all Board meetings after that date.
2 G raham Clemett missed a Remuneration Committee meeting due to the short notice on which it was called.
The meeting dealt with a single item of business which had previously been discussed with all Committee members.
3 Paul May resigned on 15 October.
4 Mike Tye missed one Board meeting.
He separately gave his input to the Chairman on the business of the meeting.
Comprehensive papers are provided to the Directors prior to Board meetings and to Committee members prior to Board Committee meetings, and financial information packs are provided on a monthly basis.
The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors to examine, among other matters, targets set and performance achieved by management.
24 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent advice Effectiveness All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and in the furtherance of their duties, Board composition and diversity Directors are entitled to take independent professional advice As required by the Code, at least 50% of the Board, excluding if necessary, at the expense of the Company.
the Chairman, are independent non-executive Directors.
The Board currently comprises two executive Directors, four Conflicts of interest and independence independent non-executive Directors and the non-executive The Board reviews potential conflicts of interest and Chairman, in compliance with the Code.
The Board considers independence where necessary at each meeting.
Directors that all of the non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, have continuing obligations to update the Board on any are independent.
changes to these conflicts or matters which may impinge upon their independence.
The principle of Board diversity is strongly supported by the Board.
It is the Boards policy that appointments to the Board In December 2017, the TRG Group became aware of a will always be based solely on merit without any discrimination technical matter relating to the levels of distributable reserves relating to age, gender or any other matter that has no bearing and the payment of interim and final dividends to Shareholders on an individuals ability to fulfil the role of Director.
This is so during the period from 2006 to 2017 the Relevant that the Board has the right individuals in place, recognising Dividends.
Following investigation, at the Board meeting that diversity of thought, approach and experience is seen convened to consider what action should be taken including as an important consideration as part of the selective criteria the calling of a general meeting of the Company to approve used to assess candidates to achieve a balanced Board.
certain deeds of release, Debbie Hewitt, Simon Cloke, Graham Clemett, Mike Tye, Paul May and Andy McCue, Further details on the Boards and the Groups policy on being Directors of the Company who were also directors diversity are contained in the Nomination Committee report of the Company at the time of declaration and payment of on page 38 and the Corporate Social Responsibility report a Relevant Dividend, were considered to have a potential on page 16. conflict of interest.
As a consequence, they did not participate in the Boards deliberations and abstained from voting on The table below sets out the position of the Group on a the resolutions subsequently put to the shareholders at gender basis as at 30 December 2018: a General Meeting of the Company on 23 May 2018.
Male Female Main Board 6 86% 1 14% Directors and Officers liability D&O insurance 1 Executive Committee 4 50% 4 50% The Company maintains D&O insurance to cover the cost of Direct Reports to defending civil and criminal proceedings brought against an Executive Committee 45 69.2% 20 30.8% individual acting in their capacity as a Director or Officer of the TRG Employees at Company including those who served as Directors or Officers December 2018 11,335 51.5% 10,687 48.5% during 2018.
Details of the Directors respective experience are set out in their biographical profiles on pages 30 to 31.
The Board considers that each Director is able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 25 Corporate Governance report continued Annual re-election Board effectiveness review In accordance with the Code, Allan Leighton is subject to An  Board and Committee evaluation was election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM conducted in December 2017 and January 2018, with the final in May 20198.
All other Directors are subject to re-election report to the Board in February 2018.
Details setting out why each Director is deemed was Lintstock Limited, which has no other connection with to be suitable for re-election will be included with the AGM the Company.
The evaluation identified changes which would papers circulated to shareholders.
improve the working of the Board, including: the recruitment of a non-executive Director with digital Board committees expertise: The Board is supported by three committees: Audit, a review to understand the factors impacting employee Nomination and Remuneration.
The terms of reference of engagement with the business: these committees are available at http: www.
Full reports for each of a review of advisers and the committees are set out on pages 32 to 53. continued external input to the Board on topical issues such as cybersecurity, the General Data Protection Director induction Regulation GDPR and digital.
Allan Leighton joined the Board in December 2018 and was provided with an induction on appointment, which included The following actions were taken as a result: visits to the Groups operations, meetings with operational and executive management, and where appropriate meetings Allan Leighton was recruited as a non-executive Director, with shareholders, suppliers and company advisers.
Each fulfilling the skill set of digital and leisure sector.
The Board Directors induction is tailored to their experience and has determined that an additional non-executive Director background with the aim of enhancing their understanding appointment will be made in 2019, to add to the digital and of the Groups business, its brands, employees, shareholders, technology credentials.
suppliers, advisers and processes, and the Boards role in A deep dive was undertaken on employee engagement, setting the tone of the culture and governance standards.
and the business decided to recruit a new Group People Director who has extensive experience in the growth sector Director training and development of delivery, having previously been the HR Director of The Company acknowledges the importance of developing Just Eat.
the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist A review was undertaken of the Companys brokers, with in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant new partners being appointed to represent Numis, and courses and seminars to acquire additional skills and MHP Communications were appointed as Investor Relations experience to enhance their contribution to the ongoing PR advisers.
Presentations by external advisers are also given at Board meetings on specific regulatory and governance topics, and in 2018, presentations were given on the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, Directors Duties and the General Data Protection Regulation.
26 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Individual Director appraisal process Internal controls Individual performance evaluations of all members of the The Group has a system of internal controls which aim to Board are carried out by the following individuals: support the delivery of strategy by managing the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and the protection of assets.
Director being As such the Group can only provide reasonable and not appraised Appraiser absolute assurance.
Chairman Reviewed by the executive and nonexecutive Directors excluding the Chairman The Group insures against risks, but certain risks remain and feedback facilitated by the Senior difficult to insure, due to the breadth and cost of cover.
In some cases, external insurance is not available at all, or Chief Executive Reviewed by all of the non-executive not at an economical price.
In such cases the Group identifies Officer Directors and Chief Financial Officer and and agrees to accept such a risk.
The Group regularly reviews feedback facilitated by the Chairman.
both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys.
Chief Financial Reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer There were no meaningful changes to the policy undertaken Officer and all of the non-executive Directors and in 2018. feedback facilitated by the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman.
In relation to each of the acquisitions of Food & Fuel and Non-executive Reviewed by the executive Directors and Wagamama during 2018, the Group took out Warranty & Directors by their non-executive Director peers Indemnity insurance to cover itself in the event of potential and feedback collated and given by the breaches of representations and warranties by the Chairman.
Accountability Risk map The Board annually reviews the Groups risk map, which Risk management includes the principal risks and mitigation plans as set out The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring the on page 57. business risks are effectively managed.
The Board has delegated regular review of the risk management procedures to the Audit Committee and collectively reviews the overall risk Remuneration environment on an annual basis.
The day-to-day management For information on remuneration see the Remuneration of business risks is the responsibility of the senior management Committee report on pages 40 to 53. team together with the Senior Management Risk Committee.
For the report of the Risk Committee see pages 56 to 57.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 27 Corporate Governance report continued Board engagement with shareholders Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
Share capital structure There is a regular dialogue with institutional investors including The Companys issued share capital at 30 December 2018 presentations after the Companys year-end and interim consisted of 491,496,230 ordinary shares of 28.125 pence results announcements.
A programme of meetings takes each.
There are no special control rights, restrictions on share place throughout the year with major institutional shareholders, transfer or voting rights, or any other special rights pertaining with both executive and non-executive Directors attending, to any of the shares in issue, and the Company does not have and private shareholders have the opportunity to meet the preference shares.
During the year 290,428,830 new shares Board face-to-face and ask questions at the AGM.
were issued pursuant to the 13 for 9 rights issue to partly finance the Wagamama acquisition and to pay certain costs In addition to the Boards regular engagement with and expenses.
shareholders in 2018, the Chairman and the executive Directors held extensive discussions with major shareholders As far as is reasonably known to management, the Company prior to the General Meeting on 28 November 2018 to explain is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another the rationale for the acquisition of Wagamama.
Company or by any government.
Board shareholder updates As granted at the 2018 AGM, the Directors currently have Feedback from major institutional shareholders is provided authority to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate to the Board on a regular basis and, where appropriate, the nominal amount of 18,850,069.
This authority will lapse at Board takes steps to address their suggestions, concerns the 2019 AGM, where it is intended that a resolution granting and recommendations.
a similar authority will be put to shareholders.
Re-engaging with gone away shareholders As granted at the 2018 AGM, the Company is currently We engaged ProSearch to locate shareholders with unclaimed authorised to purchase its own shares and to cancel or dividends up until 30 April 2018, when the programme closed hold in treasury such shares provided that: a the maximum due to minimal activity.
aggregate number of shares authorised to be purchased is 20,106,740 representing 10% of the Companys then issued Substantial shareholdings share capital : b the minimum price exclusive of expenses As at 30 December 2018, the Company had been notified which may be paid for each share is 28.125p being equal to of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued share the nominal value of each share : and c the maximum price capital of the Company under the UK Disclosure and exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each share Transparency Rules: is the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average Number % of issue of shares share capital of the middle market quotations for the shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the FMR LLC 49,136,732 10.00 five business days preceding the date of purchase, and J O Hambro Capital Management 45,674,029 9.29 ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and Schroder Investment the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Management Ltd 35,353,293 7.19 Exchange Daily Official List at the time of the purchase.
Royal London Asset This authority will lapse at the 2019 AGM, where it is Management Ltd 32,412,645 6.59 intended that a resolution granting a similar authority Columbia Threadneedle will be put to shareholders.
Investments 30,480,695 6.20 Aberforth Partners LLP 29,472,995 6.00 Norges Bank Investment Management 23,268,478 4.73 Artemis Fund Managers Ltd 21,006,261 4.27 The Vanguard Group Inc 20,065,325 4.09 BlackRock 19,718,414 4.02 Wellington Management Company 17,040,158 3.47 Polaris Capital Management Inc 15,763,518 3.21 Rathbones 15,486,891 3.15 28 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Since 30 December 2018 and up to the date of this report, the Company has been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued share capital of the Company: Number % of issue of shares share capital FMR LLC 49,149,733 10.00 Norges Bank Investment Management 22,961,811 4.67 Directors shareholdings For details of Directors shareholdings, remuneration and interests in the Companys shares and options, together with information on service contracts, see pages 42 to 48 of the Directors Remuneration report.
Annual General Meeting The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain aspects of Group business and provides a useful forum for communication with private shareholders.
At the AGM, shareholders receive presentations on the Groups performance and may ask questions of the Board.
The Chairman seeks to ensure that all Directors attend and that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees answer relevant questions at the meeting.
The 2019 AGM will be held at 10.00am on Friday 17 May 2019 at the offices of MHP Communications at 6 Agar Street, London WC2N 4HN.
The notice convening this meeting has been sent to shareholders at the same time as publication of this Annual Report and Accounts and is available at www.
By order of the Board Debbie Hewitt MBE Chairman 15 March 2019 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 29
