Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance | Nomination Committee report Scott Forbes Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder During the year Lorna Tilbian was appointed as a I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report non-executive director on 1 February 2018.
Following for 2018. the2018 AGM, Lorna was appointed a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees and The role of the Nomination Committee the Committee AndrewFindlay succeeded Ashley Martin as Audit is to keep the structure, size and composition of the Board Committee Chairman.
and Committees under review with the primary objective of matching the skills, knowledge and experience of directors The Board currently consists of eight directors including six to Rightmoves business strategy and requirements.
non-executive directors, five of which are considered to be Our priority is to optimise Board performance, enabling independent.
Following the intended retirement of Peter the Group to prosper, compete and manage risk effectively Williams at the 2019 AGM and absent the appointment of a in an evolving market.
non-executive director prior to then, the Board will comprise seven directors two executive and five non-executive A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be directors.
Korn Ferry International Korn Ferry has been found on the Companys website at plc.
appointed and has commenced a search for up to two These were reviewed and updated with minor changes new non-executive directors during 2019 including during the year.
individuals with a range of skills and experience to succeed the current Chairman and to complement the potential The Committee fulfilled its terms of reference during 2018 by: successor candidates already on the Board.
The Board reviewing the Group organisation and succession plans: has established a committee to work with Korn Ferry in conducting and discussing the Board Strategy review, connection with Board recruitment for potential successors including the Board succession plan: to the Board Chairman.
recommending the appointment of a new non-executive director: and I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions conducting external Board and Committee evaluations.
about the work of the Committee.
Further details of the Board evaluation can be found on page 53.
The Committee continued its focus on orderly Board succession, comparing Rightmoves strategic objectives Scott Forbes with the profiles of its existing directors to determine future Chairman of the Nomination Committee Board requirements and shape recruitment plans.
The Board discussed its proposed succession plan with shareholders, representing a majority of the Companys shares, with a particular focus on addressing the significant minority vote against the re-election of the Chairman and Senior Independent Director at the 2018 AGM.
Following the consultation and investor feedback, the Board believes that we have developed a consensus view in support of an orderly succession plan, further details of which are set out on pages 52 to 53 of this report.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 51 Governance | Nomination Committee report continued Composition and attendance at meetings Board induction and training The Chairman and non-executive directors are members All new non-executive directors joining the Board undertake of the Committee.
Peter Brooks-Johnson, Robyn Perriss a tailored induction including meetings with key members and the Head of People & Development attended meetings of the management team.
Directors proactively arrange by invitation.
periodic meetings with executive directors and senior management in Rightmoves office outside of Board The Committee met twice during the year and attendance meeting dates and are invited to attend customer events at the meetings is shown on page 42. and briefings.
New directors receive a comprehensive induction pack of corporate information and a briefing from Membership the Company Secretary covering corporate governance, The Committee is comprised of non-executive directors, Group policies and relevant regulations.
whose biographical details can be found on pages 36 to 37.
As at 31 December 2018, all the non-executive directors Individual Board members have access to training and can five out of six members of the Committee were considered seek advice from independent professional advisers, at the by the Board to be independent.
At the request of the Groups expense, where specific expertise or training is Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer is normally invited to required in furtherance of their duties.
The Board receives attend the meeting to discuss the annual organisation and technical briefings and training on critical and new areas, succession plan.
such as cyber security and the FCA regulation of The Chairman of the Company may not chair the Rightmoves tenant passport business.
Committee for any discussion about the appointment of Board succession and independence his successor, when the Senior Independent Director will Informed by previous Board Strategy Reviews, the take the chair.
Committee has always taken a long-term view of Board Appointments are for a period of up to three years, succession, carefully considering whether non-executive extendable by no more than two additional three-year director skills, experience and interest make them potential periods, so long as Committee members continue to candidates for the role of Chairman and Senior Independent be independent.
Director, in order to provide for orderly Board succession.
The Board had determined that all directors had sufficient Principal activities of the Committee during 2018 capacity to meet their commitments to Rightmove, During the year the Committee has: including during periods when greater involvement may be reviewed the composition and diversity of the Board: required of them.
Nevertheless, the Board recognised the reviewed the membership of Board committees: value of consulting with shareholders to explain its orderly approved the plans for the organisation and succession Board succession plan following the AGM in May 2018 of the executive directors and senior management: when a significant minority of votes were received against considered the Board Strategy Review and the re-election of our Chairman, Scott Forbes and recommendations for candidate profiles for new Peter Williams, our Senior Independent Director based on non-executive directors: concerns about the number of their Board appointments.
considered the implementation of a Board succession Following the consultation, the Chairman and Board believe plan in light of the shareholder consultation following we have received support from investors for an orderly the AGM vote on directors re-election: succession plan for the Senior Independent Director and agreed the process for an external Board evaluation Chairman as outlined below: and considered actions arising: Peter Williams intends not to stand for re-election at considered potential conflicts of interest and directors the2019 AGM to allow for the development and possible proposed appointments to other boards: and recruitment of a successor to the Chairman who has the conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
potential to fill the role for an extensive period of time: Peter has served more than five years as a non-executive director and Remuneration Committee Chairman.
The Board proposes to elect Jacqueline fide Rojas as Senior Independent Director and she will chair the committee that will oversee the process for appointing and or developing a new Chairman.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Lorna Tilbian will be elected as Chair of the Remuneration Committee following the retirement of Peter Williams at the 2019 AGM, having served on the Remuneration Committee for over a year.
Scott Forbes has stated his intention not to stand for re-election at the 2020 AGM, provided that a suitable candidate has been identified and is ready to assume the Board Chair role at that time.
The Nomination Committee has engaged Korn Ferry to conduct an external search for, and will recommend the appointment of, up to two new non-executive directors with the experience and capabilities matching candidate profiles identified in Rightmoves Board strategy review.
The candidates will include individuals with the skills and experience required for Chair succession to supplement the potential successor candidates already on the Board.
In selecting new non-executive directors, the Nomination Committee will give due consideration to the conclusions of the Board Strategy Review externally facilitated by Korn Ferry in 2018, the current Board composition and the Groups strategic plan.
Board effectiveness and evaluation In 2018, the Board completed an externally facilitated evaluation of its performance, including performance of its Committees.
Independent Audit was appointed to conduct the evaluation using their online self-assessment service, Thinking Board, which all directors and the Company Secretary were invited to complete.
The Board received Independent Audits comprehensive report, which was discussed at the Board meeting in February 2019.
The report concluded that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively with an open and supportive Board dynamic focussed on Group strategic priorities resulting in effective challenge and collaboration between non-executive and executive directors.
The Board agreed initiatives to further improve Board effectiveness which include refreshing the Board programme with input from non-executive directors, reprioritising Board agenda items and optimising the format and delivery of Board presentations by the senior management team.
An internally facilitated review of the performance of the Board and its Committees will be conducted in 2019.
