Governance | Corporate governance report Introduction Statement of compliance The following sections explain how the Company applied The Code sets out the principles and provisions relating to the main provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code good governance of UK listed companies and can be found 2016 the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council on the FRCs website at frc.
uk FRC, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial We are pleased to confirm that, for the year under review, Conduct Authority FCA and meets the relevant the Company has complied fully with the principles and information provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency provisions of the Code.
The Boards role The statement of corporate governance covers: The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the the structure and role of the Board and its committees: overall direction and control of the Group and has the powers relations with the Companys shareholders and the Annual and duties set out in the Companies Act 2006 the Act and General Meeting AGM : and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board delegates the reports of the Audit Committee and Nomination certain matters to the Board committees and delegates Committee including Board effectiveness and evaluation.
the day to day operation of the business to the executive The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out directors.
separately in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages The schedule of matters requiring Board approval includes: 58 to 59.
Rightmoves business strategy: The Groups risk management and internal control the annual business plan: framework and the principal risks and uncertainties are changes to the Groups capital structure: described on pages 24 to 27.
The Directors Report on pages the capital management and dividend policies: 54 to 56 also contains information required to be included in the annual and half-year results and shareholder this statement of corporate governance.
communications: major acquisitions and disposals: appointment and removal of officers of the Company: and the system of internal control and risk management.
The key responsibilities and actions carried out by the Board during the year are set out below: Responsibility Specific actions and information received during the year Strategy and The Board held an off-site strategy Strategic initiatives The Groups 2019 Presentations were direction meeting in July.
Discussion identified at the strategy budget and threereceived in relation to included potential threats and away day were analysed year business plan innovation in the rental opportunities to the business and discussed at was approved market including updates model arising from economic, subsequent Board on the Rightmove Tenant regulatory and other market meetings Passport launched changes during the year and discussions around future opportunities for making renting easier Performance The Board receives a monthly Regular market updates The Board Senior management gave monitoring management report covering all and reports were received regularly reviewed detailed presentations on financial and operational KPIs on the competitive updates on high-level Agency, Tenant landscape including new business Services, New Homes, business models and performance in Commercial and innovation relation to analyst Overseas business consensus performance and forecasts and the progress against other business plan business initiatives 38 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibility Specific actions and information received during the year Shareholder The Chairman met with The Remuneration Investor feedback Monthly reports are engagement Rightmoves investors to explain Committee engaged was received via received on the the actions taken in light of the with investors in relation the executive shareholder demographic 2018 AGM voting results, with to the 2019 remuneration directors and analysis of significant a particular focus on Board proposals throughout the changes to the share succession planning year, particularly register: Rightmoves following the Corporate Broker, UBS results and updated the Board on the investor key market drivers of the roadshows Groups valuation Governance The Board conducts a bi-annual Reports were received from The Directors Senior management and risk review of the entire risk register, the Audit Committee on participated in a gave briefings and including principal risks, with Rightmove Assurance Board Strategy presentations covering a particular focus on new and reviews, with continued Review and range of topics including emerging risks affecting focus on Fraud and considered data protection, cyber the business Cyber risk reviews with actions in relation and information security The Board received a detailed recommendations being to Board risks, corporate presentation on managements implemented during succession governance and the view of possible Brexit implications the year 2018 insurance renewal for Rightmoves business, programme employees and cost base People and The Board considered the new The Board considered the The Board Group employee values Corporate Governance Code strengths and capability received satisfaction scores as requirements around employee required for senior presentations part of the Have your say engagement and approved various managers succession and from senior survey were monitored proposals to enhance existing the skills and experience of managers across a range of criteria employee engagement its directors in relation to throughout the the skills and capabilities year to ensure identified in the Board exposure to the Strategy Review, that are breadth and necessary to help depth of talent Rightmove achieve its supporting strategic objectives business growth Board committees There are usually seven scheduled Board meetings each The Board has established three principal committees, the year including one meeting or away day s devoted to Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the consideration of the Groups strategy.
Additional meetings Nomination Committee, to assist it in the execution of its can be arranged at short notice at the request of any duties.
The Chairman of each Committee reports on the director, if required.
In addition to scheduled Board meetings, respective Committees activities at the subsequent there is frequent communication between the directors.
Directors receive Board papers well in advance of meetings to allow sufficient time for review and consideration.
If any The Committees terms of reference are available on the director raises a concern or challenges any aspect of the Companys corporate website, plc.
co. uk or by business conducted at a Board meeting, the Company request from the Company Secretary.
Secretary will ensure their comments are appropriately Each of the Committees is authorised, at the Companys recorded in the Board minutes.
In addition to formal Board expense, to obtain legal or other professional advice to papers, directors receive monthly management and financial assist in carrying out its duties.
No person other than a reports on the operational and financial performance of Committee member is entitled to attend the meetings of the business, setting out actual and forecast financial these Committees, except by invitation of the Chairman performance against approved budgets and other key of that Committee.
The Board also receives copies of broker reports, research analyst reports and market Current membership of the Committees is shown on reviews relating to Rightmove.
The composition of these Committees is reviewed regularly, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 39 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Membership required Committee under the terms Minimum number of report on Committee Role and terms of reference of reference meetings per year pages Audit Reviews and reports to the Board on: At least three Three 44 to 50 Group financial reporting: members who the system of internal control and risk should be management: independent independence and effectiveness of the non-executive external audit process: and directors the internal audit plan, results and effectiveness of Rightmove Assurance.
Recommends the appointment of the external auditors to the Board for approval by shareholders.
Makes recommendations to the Board on: At least three Two 58 to 59 Remuneration the Remuneration Policy and strategy for members who and 71 to 84 executive directors and senior should be management: independent long-term performance arrangements: non-executive the design and determination of targets directors under any performance-related pay scheme: and any major changes in employee benefit structures.
with the objective of ensuring that directors and employees are incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Groups overall performance.
Careful consideration is given to investors views and alignment of executive directors remuneration with all employees.
Nomination Undertakes an annual review of organisation At least three Two 51 to 53 and succession planning and ensures that members, the the membership and composition of the majority of whom Board, including the balance of skills, should be remains appropriate.
independent Makes recommendations for the non-executive membership of the Board, Audit and directors Remuneration Committees.
Board composition The Board is satisfied that the directors retiring and standing The Board at the date of this report comprises two executive for re-election are qualified for re-appointment by virtue directors and six non-executive directors, including the Chairman.
of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
The two executive directors are Peter Brooks-Johnson Chief The executive directors have service contracts with the Executive Officer and Robyn Perriss Finance Director and the Company which can be terminated on 12 months notice.
non-executive directors are Scott Forbes Chairman, Peter The appointments of the non-executive directors can be Williams Senior Independent Director, Rakhi Goss-Custard, terminated on three months notice.
Jacqueline fide Rojas, Andrew Findlay and Lorna Tilbian.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the The Articles of Association of the Company require directors Company as at the date of this report, the directors total to submit themselves for re-appointment where they have remuneration for the year and details of their service been a director at each of the preceding two AGMs and were contracts and Letters of Appointment are set out in the not appointed or re-appointed by the Company at, or since, Directors Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 84.
At the either such meeting.
Following the provisions of the Code, date of this report, the executive directors were deemed to all directors who have served during the year and remain a have a non-beneficial interest in 2,248,020 ordinary shares director as at 31 December 2018 will retire and offer of 0.1 pence each held by held by The Rightmove themselves for re-election at the next AGM.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board changes Biographical details of all directors at the date of this report Ashley Martin retired from the Board on 4 May 2018, having appear on pages 36 to 37 and details of Committee served nine years as a non-executive director and latterly as membership appear on page 42.
Peter Williams Remuneration The Boards size and composition is kept under regular Committee Chairman will retire from the Board and not review by the Nomination Committee.
stand for re-election at the AGM on 10 May 2019.
More information on proposed Board changes and the work of the Nomination Committee can be found on pages 51 to 53.
Division of responsibilities The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and there are clear written guidelines to support their division of responsibilities.
The key responsibilities of the Board members are summarised below: Chairman Responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board, including: ensuring its effectiveness by creating and managing constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive directors: ensuring there is ongoing and effective communication between the Board and its key stakeholders: and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, planning the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion and effective decision making, and that directors receive sufficient, relevant, timely and clear information.
Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the day to day management of the Group, including: the operational and financial performance of the Group: developing the Groups objectives and strategy and following Board approval, the successful execution of strategy: effective and ongoing communication with stakeholders: and chairing the Executive Committee.
Non-executive directors The role of the non-executive directors is to: constructively challenge the executive directors: and monitor the delivery of the strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
The non-executive directors bring wide and varied commercial experience and independent judgment to the Board and the Committees deliberations.
The breadth of management, financial and listed company experience of the non-executive directors is described in the biographical details on pages 36 to 37 and demonstrates a range of business expertise that provides the right mix of skills and experience given the size of the Group.
Senior Independent Director The role of the Senior Independent Director is to: act in an advisory capacity to the Chairman: deputise for the Chairman if required: serve as an intermediary for other directors when necessary: be available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or other executive directors for which such contact is inappropriate: and conduct an annual review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convening a meeting of the non-executive directors.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary: advises the Board on corporate governance matters: monitors compliance with appropriate Board procedures: assists the Chairman in ensuring that all the directors have full and timely access to relevant information: and assists the Chairman by organising directors induction and training programmes.
The Company Secretary also acts as Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for Board approval.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 41 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Board diversity and experience shares in the second half of 2018.
The Board believes that a We are committed to a Board comprised of directors from consensus view has been established in favour of an orderly different backgrounds with diverse and relevant experience, succession plan for the Board Chairman, including the perspectives, skills and knowledge.
We believe that diversity, recruitment and orientation of capable and experienced including gender diversity, amongst directors contributes succession candidates.
The Company remains committed towards a high performing and effective Board and business, to good governance, but recognises the need for any so we strive to maintain the optimal balance.
We endorse transition to be smooth to preserve Group knowledge, both a meritocratic Board appointment process and culture and shareholder confidence.
balanced gender representation on the Board.
To safeguard their independence, a director is not entitled to At 31 December 2018, 50% of both executive and nonvote on any matter in which they may be conflicted or have a executive Board members were female.
Where necessary, directors are required to committed to recruiting the best people and appropriate absent themselves from a meeting of the Board while such talent for the business whilst seeking to maintain as near matters are being discussed.
In cases of doubt, the 50:50 gender balance on the Board as possible.
Chairman of the Board is responsible for determining whether a conflict of interest exists.
The range of skills and experience the Board considers necessary to deliver Rightmoves business strategy, The Chairman is also the Chairman of two other publically and which were identified in the recent Board Strategy listed companies.
The executive directors do not hold any Review, includes: other non-executive directorships or commitments Finance and governance requiring disclosure under the Code.
Voice of the customer and property market Re-election to the Board Technology and innovation Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance Voice of the consumer and retail with the Articles of Association of the Company and the Digital marketing and online media, and provisions of the Act.
All directors are subject to election at Corporate transactions the first AGM following their appointment and in accordance Board independence with the Code, all directors, except Peter Williams, will seek The Board reviews each non-executive directors re-election at the 2019 AGM.
independence on an annual basis and considers that all Board and Committee membership and attendance non-executive directors are fully independent of The membership of the Committees of the Board and management and independent in character and judgment.
attendance at Board and Committee meetings for the The review takes into account such factors as directors year under review are set out in the table below: contribution to unbiased and independent debate during meetings to determine whether they are independent in Remuneration Audit Nomination character and judgment and whether there are relationships Board Committee Committee Committee or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to Total meetings 7 5 5 2 affect, the directors judgment.
The Board approved a new Scott Forbes 7 2 Conflicts of Interest Policy in 2018 and reviews the Register of Directors Interests at least annually.
Peter Brooks-Johnson 7 Robyn Perriss 7 The Board considered that there is an appropriate balance between executive and non-executive directors.
Peter Williams 7 5 5 2 Rakhi Goss-Custard 7 5 2 The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code effective 1 from 1January 2019 has introduced a provision that the Jacqueline fide Rojas 7 2 4 2 Chairman should not remain in post for more than nine years Andrew Findlay 7 5 2 from the date of first appointment to the Board.
It also states 2 Lorna Tilbian 6 3 2 that to facilitate effective succession planning, the period 3 Ashley Martin 1 1 may be extended for a limited time.
As Scott Forbes has served as Chairman of the Board since 2005, the Board 1 Jacqueline fide Rojas was a member of the Remuneration Committee until recognises that it will not be compliant with this provision 4 May 2018 when she joined the Audit Committee.
The Nomination Committee is planning for an 2 Lorna Tilbian joined the Board on 1 February 2018, with 4 May 2018 being her first Board meeting and became a member of the Remuneration and orderly Board succession plan, following active consultation Nomination Committees on 4 May 2018. with shareholders representing a majority of the Companys 3 Ashley Martin retired from the Board on 4 May 2018.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements In addition to the above meetings, the Chairman conducts The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of meetings with the non-executive directors without the those with an interest in the Companys shares through executive directors being present as required.
Peter reports from the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Williams, the Senior Independent Director, chaired a meeting Finance Director, as well as reports from the Companys in December 2018 of the non-executive directors at which brokers, UBS and Numis.
the performance of the Chairman was also reviewed, Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Groups without the presence of the Chairman.
activities through the half year results statement and Indemnification of directors Annual Report and the investor relations section of its The Articles of Association of the Company allow for a website, at plc.
co. uk, which provides details of qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purposes all the directors, the financial calendar, latest news including of S234 of the Act between the Company and its past and financial results, investor presentations and Stock Exchange present directors and officers, which remains in force at the announcements.
The Group has also arranged directors Annual General Meeting and officers insurance cover in respect of legal action The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to vote against the directors.
Neither our indemnity nor the on aspects of the Companys business, meet the directors insurance provides cover in the event that a director is and ask them questions.
The AGM will be held on 10 May proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
2019 at the offices of UBS Limited at 5 Broadgate, London The Company has a Dealing Code setting out the process EC2M 2QS.
and timing for dealing in shares, which is compliant with the The Company will arrange for the Annual Report and related Market Abuse Regulation.
The Dealing Code applies to all papers to be available on the Companys corporate website directors, who are persons discharging managerial at plc.
co. uk or posted to shareholders where responsibility, and other insiders.
requested at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Shareholder relations The Company continues to comply with the Code with The Board is accountable to shareholders for the the separation of all resolutions put to shareholders.
The performance and activities of the Group and welcomes Company proactively encourages shareholders to vote opportunities to engage with shareholders.
at general meetings by providing electronic voting for Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the directors shareholders who wish to vote online and personalised proxy have conducted regular and open dialogue with cards to shareholders electing to receive them, ensuring shareholders through ongoing meetings with institutional that all votes are clearly identifiable.
The Company presently investors and research firms to discuss strategy and takes votes at general meetings on a poll, the results of operational and financial performance.
Contact in the UK is which are reported after each resolution and published principally with the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance on the Companys website.
The Chairman and Chief Executive or the Chairman alone, attended meetings with shareholders representing the majority of the Companys shares in the second half of 2018 regarding orderly Board succession plan consultation, corporate governance, business strategy and other business matters.
The Senior Independent Director was also available to shareholders if they wished to supplement their communication, or if contact through the normal channels was inappropriate and engaged with investors in his capacity as Remuneration Committee Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee proactively engaged with the Companys largest shareholders ahead of setting the Remuneration Policy which was approved at the 2017 AGM and again in late 2018 when setting executive director base salary levels for 2019.
