Governance | Audit Committee report Andrew Findlay Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear shareholder FCA regulated framework.
Rightmove has decided on a I am pleased to present the 2018 report of the Audit co-sourced FCA compliance function, whereby ultimate Committee the Committee.
responsibility for FCA requirements remains within the Group, with assistance from an external provider.
This allows This report provides an overview of the principal activities Rightmove to build knowledge of FCA requirements and of the Committee and details how it has discharged its best practice, whilst being supported by external expertise.
Following a competitive tender process, Deloitte LLP were The Committee is an essential part of Rightmoves appointed as the co-sourced FCA compliance provider.
governance framework to which the Board has delegated As result of the breadth of the reviews this year, the oversight of the accounting, financial reporting and internal Committee has had the benefit of exposure to the broader control processes, the outsourced internal audit function organisation, which has brought added insight to the topics and the relationship with the external auditors.
responsibilities are set out on page 40 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Following the publishing of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC 2017 2018 Audit Quality Report in June 2018, the The Committee has overseen a detailed programme of work Committee received a presentation from KPMGs Head of in 2018 in relation to its remit, including agreeing the scope Audit UK to explain how KPMG as a firm is addressing the of work delivered by the  LLP FRCs review points.
The Committee also requested that PwC outsourced internal audit function, known as KPMG provide regular updates on the progress of their Rightmove Assurance.
The role of PwC has become well Audit Quality Transformation Programme as well as the established throughout the organisation and continues internal review processes relating to the Rightmove audit.
to provide insight and value in both core financial control areas and the broader business operations.
With effect from 1 January 2018 the Group has adopted IFRS9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from The Committee continued to focus on the Groups General Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
The Data Protection Regulation compliance programme and Committee carefully considered the treatment and received regular updates since the introduction of the new disclosures in the Annual Report in relation to the new regulations in May 2018.
The Committee also reviewed the accounting standards with both IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 results of PwCs cyber maturity assessment performed having a material effect on the Groups Balance Sheet.
in late 2017 and managements planned actions, supplemented by further discussions at Board level, The Committee as part of its annual governance cycle reflecting the focus in this key risk area.
The oversight of also reviewed the Groups treasury, anti-bribery and financial controls continues to be a key area of work for the whistleblowing policies and the gifts and hospitality register.
Committee with all key financial cycles having been reviewed Looking forward to the next 12 months, the Committee will by Rightmove Assurance across the past three years continue to focus on key risk areas such as cyber security including an end to end billing review in 2018. and IT systems together with FCA compliance reviews for In November 2018 the Committee received a presentation the newly regulated part of the business providing tenant from management providing an overview of the Financial passport services.
Conduct Authority FCA principals and regulations in I have greatly enjoyed my first year as Chairman of the Audit relation to the newly authorised Group entity, Rightmove Committee and I will be available at the AGM to answer any Rent Services Limited.
The presentation also covered questions about the work of the Committee.
Rightmoves approach to risk and compliance within an 44 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee effectiveness Written terms of reference that outline the Committees The effectiveness of the operation of the Committee was authority and responsibilities are published on the investor reviewed in December 2018 as part of the independent relations section of the Groups website at plc.
Board and Committee evaluation process.
The feedback co. uk and are available in hard copy form from the on the Committee was positive and confirmed that the Company Secretary.
Committee is effective and provides appropriate challenge.
Financial reporting The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups half-year report and annual financial statements.
The Committee does this by Andrew Findlay considering, among other things, the accounting policies Chairman of the Audit Committee and practices adopted by the Group: the correct application of applicable reporting standards and compliance with Committee membership and meetings broader governance requirements: the approach taken by All the members of the Audit Committee are independent management to the key judgmental areas of reporting and non-executive directors in accordance with provision C3.1 the comments of the external auditor on managements of the Code.
The Board has determined that Andrew Findlay chosen approach.
as the Committee Chair has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code due to his executive Significant issues role as Chief Financial Officer of easyJet plc.
Both Andrew The key significant issue in the context of the 2018 Financial Findlay and Peter Williams are qualified accountants.
The Committee considers this area to be significant taking into account As a whole, the Committee possesses experience relevant the level of materiality and degree of focus given by to the business through the digital experience of Andrew management, and discussed the issue in detail to Findlay and Peter Williams, and the technology background ensure that the approach taken was appropriate.
In relation to the Company Financial Statements, the key Biographies of the members of the Committee are set significant issue is the recoverability of the investment out on pages 36 to 37. by the Company in Rightmove Group Limited, due to its The Committee met five times in 2018 and attendance materiality in the context of the total assets of the Company.
of the members is shown on page 42 of the Corporate Governance Report.
In order to maintain effective communication between all relevant parties, the Committee invited the Finance Director and Head of Finance, together with appropriate members of the management team, and the external and internal auditors, to meetings as necessary.
The Committee sets aside time periodically to seek the views of the external auditor, in the absence of management.
The external auditor has direct access to the Chairman to raise any concerns outside formal Committee meetings.
The Committee also meets separately with the internal auditor during the year, and in between meetings the Chairman keeps in touch with the Finance Director and external audit partner as well as other members of the management team.
After each meeting, the Chairman reports to the Board on the main issues discussed by the Committee and minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to the Board once approved.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 45 Governance | Audit Committee report continued Issue Committee review Revenue Revenue is a prime area of audit focus, particularly the timing of revenue As more fully described on page 19 and 98 to recognition in relation to the billing of subscription fees and additional products.
100 the majority of the Groups revenue is During the year, management performed data analytics procedures on the derived from subscriptions for core listing amounts billed to the two largest customer groups Agency and New Homes.
fees and advertising products on This included investigating anomalies such as billing gaps and single bills raised Rightmoves platforms.
The Group and reporting to the Committee in this regard.
recognises this revenue over the period KPMG further supplement the data analytics work performed by management of the contract or the point at which by using computer assisted audit techniques to match sales ledger postings to advertising products are used.
cash receipts recorded against trade receivable balances to further evidence the existence of revenue, with the results of this work reported to the Committee.
The Committee discussed any anomalies with management and with KPMG in relation to the data analytics work performed.
The Committee was satisfied with the explanations provided and conclusions reached.
The data analytics performed work above is supplemented by a detailed analytical review of margin and ARPA together with a comprehensive analysis on the treatment of discounted and free member offers.
Investment by Rightmove plc in The Committee reviewed the assumptions made by management, including the strong track record of profitable growth and cash generation by RMGL.
Rightmove Group Limited RMGL The investment by the Company in RMGL Furthermore the Rightmove plc share price has increased significantly in the 10-year period since 2008, resulting in a current market value in excess of is carried at cost, adjusted for subsequent additions to the investment.
Cost was initially 4 billion, significantly higher than the investment carrying value of 0.5 billion.
As RMGL is the main trading entity of Rightmove plc, we therefore see no evidence assessed as at 28 January 2008, being the date that Rightmove plc became the parent of impairment.
The Committee was satisfied with the assumptions made.
Share-based payment awards to RMGL employees are accounted for as a deemed capital contribution by Rightmove plc to RMGL of the value of the share-based payment charge for those awards, increasing the value of the investment.
Further details are provided in Note 15 to the financial statements.
The investment is not considered at risk of material misstatement or subject to significant judgement, however it is considered a significant risk due to its size in relation to the Company balance sheet.
The Committee also reviewed and considered the following areas in relation to the 2018 Financial Statements.
Issue Committee review Adoption of new accounting standards: The Committee carefully considered the treatment and disclosures in the Annual Report in relation to the new accounting standards with both IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 IFRS 9 Financial instruments having a material effect on the Groups Balance Sheet.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with The Committee also obtained the external auditors assessment of the implication customers of the new accounting standards and the related disclosures.
The results of this IFRS 16 Leases review were that the Committee was satisfied the new accounting standards had been appropriately adopted.
Going concern and viability statements In assessing the validity of the statements detailed on pages 28 and 97, the Committee reviewed the work undertaken by management to assess the Groups resilience to the Principal Risks under various stress test scenarios including consideration of the impact of a hard Brexit.
The Committee gained appropriate assurance that sufficient rigour was built into the process to assess going concern and viability over the designated periods.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Fair balanced and understandable by the Committee in advance of the February Board One of the key governance requirements is for the Annual meeting, highlighting any areas where the Committee Report and the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, to be believed further clarity was required.
The draft report was fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information then amended to incorporate this feedback prior to being necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position tabled at the Board meeting for final comment and approval.
and performance, business model and strategy.
When forming its opinion, the Committee reflected on the The Committee was provided with an early draft of the information it had received and its discussions throughout Annual Report in order to assess the strategic direction and the year.
In particular, the Committee considered: key messages being communicated.
Feedback was provided Is the report fair?
Is the whole story presented and has any sensitive material been omitted that should havebeen included?
Are key messages in the narrative aligned with the KPIs and are they reflected in the financial reporting?
Are the KPIs being reported consistently from year to year?
Is the reporting on the business areas in the narrative reporting consistent with the financial reporting in the financial statements?
Do you get the same messages when reading the front end and back end of the Annual Report independently?
Are threats identified and appropriately highlighted?
Are the alternative performance measures explained clearly with appropriate prominence?
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and significant issues reported in this Committee Report consistent with disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
How do these judgements compare with the risks that KPMG are planning to include intheir Auditors Report?
Is there a clear and cohesive framework for the Annual Report?
Are the important messages highlighted appropriately throughout the Annual Report?
Is the Annual Report written in easy to understand language and are the key messages clearly drawn out?
Is the Annual Report free of unnecessary clutter?
Following its review, the Committee is of the opinion that the ofthe systems of internal financial control and data which 2018 Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and are used to produce the information contained in the understandable and provides the information necessary for financial statements.
shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, The Committee is responsible for making recommendations business model and strategy.
to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external External audit auditor.
KPMG was reappointed as auditor of the Group at The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the 2018 AGM.
The current external audit engagement the relationship with, and performance of, the external partner is Anna Jones, who has held this role since the auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, who is engaged to conduct a beginning of 2018.
A timeline setting out the tenure of statutory audit and express an opinion on the financial KPMG as auditor is set out overleaf: statements.
KPMGs audit includes the review and testing Rightmove plc annual report 2018 47 Governance | Audit Committee report continued External Audit tendering timeline 2000 2006 2013 2018 2023 KPMG appointed Rightmove becomes KPMG reappointed as Mandatory Competitive tender as auditor a publicly listed entity auditors, following a appointment of new will need to take place competitive audit audit lead partner prior to this date, tender process after five years being 10 years since last audit tender.
KPMG will not be invited to re-tender as maximum period in office is 20 years, i. e. 2026 The Committee approves the terms of engagement and ensures that the Group benefits in a cost-effective manner fees of the external auditor, ensuring they have appropriate from the cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditor audit plans in place and that an appropriate relationship is whilst also ensuring that the auditor maintains the necessary maintained between the Group and the external auditor.
degree of independence and objectivity.
TheCommittee approved the audit fees of 151,000 for The level of non-audit fees as a proportion of the audit fee has the year as set out in Note 6 of the financial statements.
typically been low at Rightmove.
During the year, KPMG charged Independence and non-audit services the Group 28,000 for non-audit services, representing less The Committee has policies and procedures in place in than 17% of the 2018 audit fee.
Of this, 19,000 related to the relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external half-year review, and 5,000 to a review of the Groups first auditor and the non-audit fee policy was reviewed by the payment practices report.
Further details of these services Committee during the year.
The non-audit fee policy can be found in Note 6 to the financial statements.
Non-audit service Policy Assurance-related services directly related to the audit.
The half-year review is approved by the Committee as part For example the review of the half-year Financial Statements.
Management is given the authority to incur additional non-audit services of up to 15,000 in any financial year without prior approval of the Committee.
Thereafter all additional fees are to be referred to the Permitted non-audit services Audit Committee in advance, subject to a cap on permitted Including but not limited to: accounting advice, work related non-audit fees of 70% of the average audit fees over the to mergers, acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures or circulars three preceding financial years.
Prohibited services Prohibited, in accordance with the EU Audit Reform.
In line with the EU Audit Reform, these are services where the auditors objectivity and independence may be compromised.
Prohibited services are detailed in the FRC Revised Ethical Standard 2016 and include tax services, accounting services, internal audit services and valuation services.
External auditor effectiveness The Committee considered the quality and effectiveness of of audit personnel, business understanding, technical the external audit process, in light of the FRCs Practice Aid knowledge and the degree of rigour applied in the review for Audit Committees May 2015.
The effectiveness of the processes of the work undertaken, communication of key external audit process is dependent on a number of factors.
accounting and audit judgements, together with appropriate These include the quality, continuity, experience and training audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee reviewed the FRCs Audit Quality Report End to end billing system review to evaluate the design AQR relating to KPMG and discussed the year on year and effectiveness of controls, including review of the decline in the percentage of audits inspected that met the new automated billing system developed for the standard of good limited improvements 61% in 2017 2018 Overseas business.
The AQR highlighted that in a Reports setting out the principal findings of the Rightmove sample of audits inspected, KPMG had failed to evidence Assurance reviews and agreed management actions were and record its processes in relation to challenge of discussed by the Committee.
The Committee also management on areas of judgement.
The Committee reviewed open actions from previous reviews, together asked KPMG to comment on the actions taken by them with monitoring the progress by management in completing as afirm since the review.
KPMG acknowledged that it was not satisfied with the scores Effectiveness of the internal audit process and is committed to putting it right, having taken a number The work of Rightmove Assurance provides a key additional of actions to drive improvement through its Audit Quality source of assurance and support to management and the Transformation Programme.
Specifically, KMPG has Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal controls as mandated more standard work papers, expanded its second well as providing guidance and recommendations to further line of defence reviews, accelerated implementation of enhance the internal control environment, and provide existing technology based audit tools, increased central specialist insight into areas of change in the business.
monitoring of audits, together with more mandatory face to face training, tailored by sector.
KPMG agreed to provide During the year, the Audit Committee undertook a review the Committee with regular updates on the internal review of the effectiveness of the Rightmove Assurance function.
processes in place for the Rightmove audit.
The evaluation was led by the Committee Chairman and involved issuing tailored evaluation questionnaires which The Committee evaluated the effectiveness of the audit were completed by Rightmove management, the external process together with input from management.
Areas the auditors, KPMG, the Committee and PwC themselves.
Committee considered in this review included the quality The evaluation concluded that the function had an of audit planning and execution, engagement with the appreciation of the key issues facing the business, was Committee and management, quality of key audit reports realistic and robust with audit suggestions and added and the capability and experience of the audit team.
For the value to the business.
2018 financial year, the Committee was satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary Anti-bribery and whistleblowing areas of audit risk and concluded that the performance of The Code includes a provision requiring the Committee to KPMG remained efficient and effective.
review arrangements by which employees of the Group may in confidence raise concerns about possible improprieties Internal audit in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The The Group has an Internal Audit function, known as Committees objective is to ensure that arrangements are Rightmove Assurance which is fully outsourced to PwC.
in place for the proportionate and independent investigation The aim of Rightmove Assurance is to provide independent of such matters and for the appropriate follow up action.
and objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control, risk management and governance Rightmove is committed to the highest standards of processes.
This includes assurance that underlying financial quality, honesty, openness and accountability.
The Group controls and processes are working effectively, as well as has a whistleblowing process which enables employees specialist operational and compliance reviews that focus on of the Group to raise genuine concerns on an entirely emerging risks in new and evolving areas of the business.
The Committee receives reports on the The Rightmove Assurance plan for 2018 was approved by communication of the whistleblowing policy to the business the Audit Committee and covered a broad range of core and the use of the service including any whistleblowing financial and operational processes and controls, focusing incidents and their outcomes.
Specialist reviews were undertaken The Board believes that it is important for the Group and in the following areas: its employees to follow clear and transparent business GDPR readiness in flight review to re-perform an earlier practices and consistently apply high ethical standards in all readiness assessment performed in 2017 and to validate business dealings thereby supporting the objectives of the completed actions as part of the GDPR programme: Bribery Act 2010.
An Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Counter fraud review to identify areas of greatest fraud and procedures have been established to set out what is risk or cash leakage to the business: and expected from employees and other stakeholders who act Rightmove plc annual report 2018 49 Governance | Audit Committee report continued on behalf of the Group to ensure that they protect A comprehensive system of planning, budgeting and themselves as well as the Groups reputation and assets.
This includes monthly The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy is communicated management reporting and monitoring of performance to all new joiners as part of the induction process and is against both budgets and forecasts with explanations communicated annually to all employees at the town halls.
for all significant variances: Rightmove has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and any An organisational structure with clearly defined lines breach of the Bribery Act is regarded as serious misconduct, of responsibility and delegation of authority, and an potentially justifying immediate dismissal.
embedded culture of openness where business decisions and their associated risks and benefits are discussed All corporate gifts and hospitality offered or received valued and challenged: at more than 50 are recorded in the Groups gifts and Clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and hospitality register.
For any gifts or hospitality greater than investment exist, including appropriate authorisation 100 approval is required prior to accepting and the register levels, with larger capital projects, acquisitions and is examined by the Committee at least annually.
disposals requiring Board approval: Internal controls A treasury function which manages cash flow forecasts The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system and cash on deposit and is responsible for monitoring of internal controls and has established a framework of compliance with banking agreements, where appropriate: financial and other controls which is periodically reviewed A comprehensive disaster recovery plan and business in accordance with the FRC Internal Control: Guidance to continuity plan based upon: Directors publication formerly known as the Turnball co-hosting of the Rightmove.
co. uk website across three Guidance for its effectiveness.
separate locations, which is regularly tested and reviewed: the ability of the business to maintain business critical The Board has taken, and will continue to take, appropriate activities in the event of an incident: measures to ensure that the chances of financial the capability for employees to remote work from home irregularities occurring are reduced as far as reasonably or a third party location in the event of a loss of one of possible by improving the quality of information at all levels in our premises which is regularly tested through planned the Group, fostering an open environment and ensuring that office closures: the financial analysis is rigorously applied.
Any system of regular testing of the security of the IT systems and internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate platforms, regular backups of key data and ongoing threat the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only monitoring to protect against the risk of cyber attack: provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against A framework which provides guidelines in meeting the material misstatement or loss.
FCA regulatory requirements for our newly authorised The Groups management has established the procedures subsidiary entity, Rightmove Rent Services Limited: necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for A Group Data Protection Framework which provides identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks to the guidelines in meeting the requirements of the data Group.
These procedures have been in place for the whole of protection principles set out in the Data Protection the financial year ended 31 December 2018 and up to the Act 2018: and date of the approval of these financial statements and they Whistleblowing and Anti-Bribery Policies of which all are reviewed regularly.
employees are made aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with line management or, if appropriate, Rightmove has an internal audit function, known as confidentially outside the line management.
Rightmove Assurance, which is fully outsourced to PwC.
Through the procedures outlined above, the Board, Rightmove Assurance provides the Group with additional with advice from the Audit Committee, has considered independent assurance on the effectiveness of internal all significant aspects of internal control for the year and up controls.
tothe date of this Annual Report.
No significant failings or The key elements of the system of internal control are: weaknesses were identified during this review.
However, Major commercial, strategic, competitive, financial and hadthere been any such failings or weaknesses, the Board regulatory risks are formally identified, quantified and confirms that necessary actions would have been taken assessed, discussed with the Executive Committee, to remedy them.
after which they are considered by the Board: 50 rightmove.
