252434 RIT R&A pp024-pp039 04 03 2019 16:18 Page 29 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Audit and Risk Committee Report The Audit and Risk Committee We also consider the year-end reports from the external I am pleased to present my first Audit and Risk auditors and discuss any matters arising with the Committee Report since being appointed Chairman of the Manager.
The adequacy of the Groups accounting Committee on 26 April 2018, following the retirement of policies and financial reporting procedures are discussed John Cornish.
On behalf of the members of the with the external auditor at least annually.
Following Committee I would like to thank John for his long and these discussions and our review of the annual reports, valued service as Chairman, and personally for his we concluded that the accounting policies are appropriate support on my appointment.
Andr Perold and Jeremy for the Company and take into account, where necessary, Sillem were also appointed to this Committee at the 2018 new accounting standards.
AGM and I am very grateful for their, and Mike Powers, We held two further meetings, in May and October 2018, valuable contributions.
to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal controls, by reference to The Committee has oversight responsibilities delegated reports prepared by the Manager, its internal audit to it by the Board in three principal areas: financial function and BNP as Depositary.
reporting, risk management and the external audit.
The responsibilities are set out in more detail in the We also reviewed the Groups whistleblowing Committees terms of reference, which may be viewed procedures for staff to follow in the event that they might at www.
have any concerns about possible improprieties in Committee composition matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The The Committee currently comprises four Directors, each procedures in place were enhanced during 2018 to of whom is non-executive and independent of the provide staff with easier access to the Committee, Company.
The Board is satisfied that I have requisite, through myself as Chairman, and I can confirm that no recent and relevant financial experience to chair the issues were raised during the year.
Committee: I am a Fellow of the ICAEW, Chief Financial In addition to the activities described above, other Officer of the Virgin Group and have held various significant matters we considered during 2018 included: executive and non-executive roles for public, private and governmental organisations, many of which were audit UK Corporate Governance Code committee roles.
I have also been a member of this We reviewed the information and analysis provided by Committee since 30 April 2015. the Manager to support the disclosures required to be made to shareholders in the annual report under the UK The three other members of the Committee at the year Corporate Governance Code 2016.
We have further end also have recent and relevant financial experience.
reviewed the Managers analysis of the impact of the UK Mike Power is also a Fellow of the ICAEW and Professor Corporate Governance Code 2018 which will apply from of Accounting at the London School of Economics and the year ending 31 December 2019, and are satisfied that Political Science, Jeremy Sillem has extensive financial the Board is undertaking the appropriate action in this services experience as well as being Chairman of an regard as disclosed in the Chairmans Statement, investment trust, and Andr Perold is Chief Investment Corporate Governance Report and the Directors' Report.
Officer of an investment management firm.
Their individual biographies are shown on pages 20 and 21.
The valuation of direct private investments and other assets Committee meetings and activity during the year Direct private investments comprise approximately 11% We met twice in 2018 to review the Groups 2017 annual of net assets.
By their very nature such investments report and accounts and the June 2018 half-yearly merit individual attention when considering their fair financial report, and again in February 2019 to review the value.
The estimation of fair value requires the exercise Groups 2018 annual report and accounts.
of considerable judgement and in many instances the use of a range of valuation techniques.
This subjectivity The reviews include the assessment and assurance that means that there is a higher degree of uncertainty in such the annual reports, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced valuations compared with those of other assets.
and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups We have considered the work of the Valuation position, performance, business model and strategy.
For Committee and the results of their discussions with both both the 2017 and 2018 annual reports, we were the Manager and the external auditors.
We consider the satisfied that this was the case and advised the Board accordingly.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 29 252434 RIT R&A pp024-pp039 04 03 2019 16:18 Page 30 Audit and Risk Committee Report work to be detailed, comprehensive and that the persons reviewed twice each year by the Committee, using a preparing the reports have sufficient and appropriate comprehensive report prepared by the Manager.
The expertise through their experience and qualifications.
report outlines principal risks and their management Furthermore, we believe that the process is planned and covering all aspects of financial and operational risk.
The managed so as to devote adequate time and resource to relative importance of each principal risk is assessed by preparation and review by both the Manager and the reference to the possible impact on the Groups net asset members of the Valuation Committee.
value or share price should a loss occur, alongside the likelihood of that loss occurring taking into consideration We have also considered the work of the Valuation the current control environment.
Committee as it relates to other assets in the portfolio.
The Committee also focused on a number of other areas Here, the combination of detailed processes, rigorous as part of a rolling review process.
The Committee met analysis and, where relevant, external advice has with the Manager's investment executive responsible for provided comfort over the portfolio valuations.
Two operational due diligence for fund investments.
He members of this Committee, myself included, also sit on provided details of the structure, process involved and the Valuation Committee.
level of activity during the year including examples of Related Party Disclosures reports and how the process interacts with the Related party transactions are a common feature of investment decisions.
The Committee reviewed JRCM commerce and business.
The Group often takes reports on regulatory matters, including its advantage of opportunities offered to it, or services implementation of both MiFID II and GDPR during 2018. provided to it via many relationships built up over time including those arising from Board members.
Disclosure In addition the Committee considered the of such transactions is a legal requirement in order to appropriateness of the accounting and hedging policy for allow shareholders and other users of the financial share-based payments: the use, calculation and statements to assess the risks and opportunities facing disclosures in relation to alternative performance the Group.
Any failure to properly address this measures APMs : and the calculation and disclosure of requirement could expose the Group to legal, regulatory cost ratios.
The Committee also considered the impact of or reputational risk.
the new accounting standards adopted in the year, concluding that there was no significant impact on the We consider the work of the Conflicts Committee in Groups accounts or financial position.
reviewing cost-sharing arrangements, co-investment The Board considers that the procedures in place are transactions and any other similar arrangements with consistent with the Guidance on Risk Management, parties related to any Director, and have discussed with Internal Control and Related Financial and Business the Manager the systems and processes in place to Reporting published by the FRC in September 2014. identify, review, record and disclose such transactions.
We note the importance the Board and the Manager As part of the review of the control environment, JRCM place upon this.
We have reviewed the disclosures made undertakes an internal audit of selected areas.
This is in the financial statements regarding such transactions performed on an annual basis and follows a rolling and consider them to be the result of a process designed programme targeting key areas.
The precise scope and to ensure that not only are the transactions themselves depth of the remit is subject to ongoing review by this on appropriate terms but that the necessary disclosures Committee.
Where required improvements are identified, have been made.
timetables are agreed for implementing these and Internal Control progress is monitored against these timescales.
Clear The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups and direct reporting lines between JRCMs Compliance system of internal control although it has delegated the Officer who conducts the reviews and the Chairman of supervision of the system to the Committee.
Such the Committee have been established to maximise the systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, independence of the function from JRCMs executive the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as management.
The Committee reviews the internal audit such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute plans for the year as well as the audit reports, with a assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
focus on the implementation of specific recommendations.
The 2018 internal audits included The Board has delegated to JRCM the implementation reviews of: the policies, procedures and controls in and day-to-day management of the system of internal relation to execution of investment decisions, investor control within an established framework acceptable relations, operational business expenditure and HR.
The system of internal control is significant weaknesses were identified.
30 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp024-pp039 04 03 2019 16:18 Page 31 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Audit and Risk Committee Report JRCM also monitors the compliance of external Ensuring an efficient and effective transition to EY has managers with the terms of their investment been critical to the Committee and I have been pleased management arrangements, as well as periodically with the level of preparatory work undertaken by both EY reviewing their control procedures.
This included various meetings between JRCM and various EY specialists covering areas The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key such as valuation and governance disclosures.
I look systems of internal control in operation during the forward to building a strong relationship with EY and the financial year, and up to the date of this report, through insights they will bring as they take a fresh look at, and the Committee.
During the course of the reviews provide new challenge to, the work of this Committee.
conducted, the Committee has not identified or been apprised of any failings or weaknesses representing a I would also like to place on record our thanks to PwC for significant business risk.
their work as external auditor from the Companys listing in 1988.
We are grateful for their independence, The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key professionalism and the scrutiny they applied to our controls exercised over its financial and operating affairs.
Duties are segregated to an extent commensurate with the size of the Groups organisation and business environment.
External Auditors The external auditors are Ernst & Young LLP EY who Amy Stirling were appointed at the 2018 AGM.
EY succeeded Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee  LLP PwC who had been the auditors since the Companys inception.
PwC attended all meetings of the Committee relevant to them and provided reports on their audit approach and work undertaken, the quality and effectiveness of the Groups accounting records and their findings in connection with the Groups annual statutory audit for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Subsequent to their appointment, EY attended all meetings of the Committee and I have had regular contact with the lead audit partner during the year.
The level of non-audit services provided to the Group by the auditors is subject to pre-approval in accordance with our policy on non-audit services and is monitored, as is the auditors objectivity in providing such service, to ensure that the independence of the audit team from the Group is not compromised.
Non-audit services provided by EY in 2018 totalled 35,000 for audit-related assurance work.
Their selection for this work was based on cost efficiency and synergies with the audit process.
Further information on fees paid to the auditors is set out in note 5 to the financial statements.
The Committee considered EYs independence, objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process with the benefit of formal and informal feedback from the Manager, having adopted the same process for PwC in the prior year.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 31
