252434 RIT R&A pp024-pp039 04 03 2019 16:18 Page 24 Corporate Governance Report Introduction Committee, chaired by Lord Rothschild.
Furthermore, The Directors present the Companys Corporate pursuant to an investment management agreement, Governance Report.
This describes our principal day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to governance bodies, their composition, purpose and JRCM, where Lord Rothschild is chairman of the JRCM operation within the context of the Principles of the UK Investment Committee.
This structure of permanent Corporate Governance Code the Code of the Financial committees, together with the delegation of day-to-day Reporting Council FRC, which can be viewed at management to the Executive Committee of JRCM, are www.
The Board of Directors the Board and its considered by the Board as appropriate for a committees are mindful of the new version of the Code self-managed investment trust and its shareholders on an which was published in July 2018 and first applies to the ongoing basis.
The terms of reference of each of the Company for the financial year ending 31 December 2019. permanent committees may be viewed at A thorough review of the Codes updated provisions has www.
already been conducted and the Company has begun As Chairman of the Board, Lord Rothschild is responsible taking the actions required to address the amended for its leadership and its effectiveness in dealing with the provisions as appropriate.
matters reserved for its decision with adequate time for Leadership consideration.
This includes ensuring a culture of The Company is headed by its Board, which is collectively openness and debate and that Directors are properly responsible for setting the Companys long-term strategic briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
The aims, and its ongoing business and investment Chairman is also responsible for ensuring effective strategies.
The schedule of matters reserved for the communication with shareholders, making Directors Board may be viewed on the website, www.
aware of any concerns raised by shareholders and for The day-to-day management of the business is delegated facilitating the contribution of the non-executive to JRCM, the Companys subsidiary and Manager.
is managed by its Executive Committee, led by its The Audit and Risk Committee Chairman and CEO, Francesco Goedhuis.
The Audit and Risk Committee Report is shown on pages As at the date of this Report, the Board comprised nine 29 to 31.
Directors, the majority of which have been determined by The main features of the Companys internal controls and the Board to be independent.
The Board comprised one risk management are described in the Audit and Risk executive Director, seven independent non-executive Committee Report on pages 30 to 31 and in Principal Directors and one non-independent non-executive Risks & Viability on pages 15 to 18.
This balance is intended to limit the scope for an individual, or a small group of individuals, to dominate the The Conflicts Committee Boards decision making.
The Conflicts Committee meets at least once a year on a formal, scheduled basis and on other occasions as and Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an when required.
The Committee is chaired by The Duke of executive Director.
The Company has in place a structure Wellington and is comprised solely of independent of five permanent committees, which are designed to Directors.
The Committees principal responsibilities devolve responsibility and control of certain key areas of cover the monitoring of arrangements with parties related Board responsibility away from the Chairman.
Four of to Lord Rothschild or any other Director as described in these committees are comprised entirely of independent note 18, to ensure that potential conflicts of interest are non-executive Directors.
Independent non-executive Directors also comprised a majority of the Nominations The current members of the five permanent Board committees are as follows: Audit and Risk Committee Conflicts Committee Nominations Committee Amy Stirling Chairman The Duke of Wellington Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman Mike Power Michael Marks Michael Marks Andr Perold The Duke of Wellington Jeremy Sillem Remuneration Committee Valuation Committee The Duke of Wellington Chairman Mike Power Chairman Philippe Costeletos Philippe Costeletos Michael Marks Amy Stirling Jeremy Sillem 24 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp024-pp039 04 03 2019 16:18 Page 25 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report avoided, or managed appropriately.
Such arrangements In accordance with the Code, the Committee considered include co-investments and related party transactions.
the proposed re-elections of Michael Marks and The Duke of Wellington after rigorous reviews, as they have served as The Nominations Committee Directors for more than six years.
Reflecting the FRCs The Nominations Committee comprises three Directors, guidance in relation to the new Code, and further to the two of whom are independent, with the third being Lord Committees recommendations, the Board has agreed that, Rothschild, who chairs the Committee.
The Committee as of the Annual General Meeting AGM, Michael Marks meets at least twice each year and on additional occasions will retire from the role of Senior Independent Director and as required.
It is responsible for the process of the his membership of Board committees.
He will therefore be appointment of new Directors to the Board, and other put forward for re-election at the AGM as a nonmatters set out in its terms of reference including overall independent Director.
Philippe Costeletos will, subject to Board composition, succession planning, and the annual re-election at the AGM, replace Michael Marks as Senior performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and Independent Director.
Furthermore, the Board has the Directors.
During the year it considered and determined that the Duke of Wellington, will cease to be recommended the appointment of two independent classified as independent from 22 July 2019, the ninth Directors, Andr Perold and Jeremy Sillem, as well as anniversary of his joining the Board, and accordingly will changes in the membership of Board Committees.
Jeremy relinquish his role as chairman and member of the Conflicts Sillems independence was considered in the context of his and Remuneration Committees and membership of the role as founder and managing partner of Spencer House Nominations Committee at that time.
Philippe Costeletos Partners LLP, a corporate finance advisory business.
This will be appointed as chairman of both the Conflicts and business is independent of your Company, and while SHP Remuneration Committees.
provides advice to your Company, and rents space from The Remuneration Committee your Company, these transactions are structured on arms The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on pages length terms and are not significant to either business.
The Committee is mindful of Board balance and diversity The Valuation Committee when considering appointments to the Board.
Neither open The Valuation Committee comprises three Directors, all of advertising nor external search consultancies have been whom are independent, and with appropriate experience.
used for non-executive Director appointments, as the Board The Committee plays a key role in providing the Board and Nominations Committee typically utilise their broad with assurance that the valuation process is rigorous and range of business contacts to identify candidates on the independently challenged.
basis of their potential contribution to the Company.
Board and Committee Attendance The Board and Committee attendance of the Directors at meetings during the year is shown below.
In each case the number of meetings attended is shown first, followed by the number of meetings that the Director was eligible to attend.
Board Audit & Risk Conflicts Nominations Remuneration Valuation Number of meetings held during the year 441322 Chairman Lord Rothschild 4 4 3 3 Non-executive Directors 1 John Cornish 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 Philippe Costeletos 4 4 1 1 1 1 Michael Marks 4 4 1 1 3 3 2 2 3 Andr Perold 2 23 3 Mike Power 4 4 4 4 2 2 Hannah Rothschild 4 4 4 Jeremy Sillem 2 2 3 3 0 1 Amy Stirling 4 4 4 4 2 2 The Duke of Wellington 4 4 1 1 3 3 2 2 1 Retired as a Director on 26 April 2018.
2 Appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 26 April 2018.
3 Elected as a Director and appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee on 26 April 2018.
4 Elected as a Director and appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee on 26 April 2018.
Appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee on 29 October 2018.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 25 252434 RIT R&A pp024-pp039 04 03 2019 16:18 Page 26 Corporate Governance Report The Committee is chaired by Mike Power, who replaced allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their John Cornish when he retired as a Director on 26 April responsibilities effectively.
It meets at least twice each year and additionally as JRCM provided relevant and timely information on the may be required.
The Committees principal responsibility is to review the Companys direct private and other financial and regulatory developments during 2018 in the investments to ensure that they are presented in the papers provided for Board and Committee meetings, annual and half-yearly accounts at fair value.
As a result of including in respect of the 2018 Corporate the inherent subjectivity of the valuation of private Governance Code.
investments, these form a key area of focus for the During the year, in accordance with the Code, an external Committee.
At each meeting, the Committee reviews a detailed report from the Manager which includes: a evaluator BoardAlpha was appointed to carry out an valuation report on each of the largest above 0.20% of independent review of the Boards effectiveness and that net assets directly-held private investments, including of its Committees.
BoardAlpha held one-to-one meetings information on the companies performance and with each of the Directors and the Manager focusing on a valuation: a summary of the valuation of the smaller range of different areas relevant to Board effectiveness directly-held private investments: a valuation report from and corporate governance.
The external evaluation JLL in relation to the Companys investment property: the concluded that the Board is effective and each Directors valuation approach for the remainder of the portfolio, performance was considered to be satisfactory.
The including an analysis of the Companys investments in findings of the external evaluation were then discussed private funds: and a valuation of the Companys loan with the Chairman and SID, and considered in notes.
As part of its review and challenge, the Committee documented form at the annual meeting of non-executive considers: the consistency of the Managers approach Directors held in January 2019.
BoardAlpha has no other over time: the valuation techniques adopted: and a connection with the Company or any Director.
review of the differences between the ultimate sale price and the most recent valuation for any assets sold during The next external evaluation is scheduled for 2021. the period.
All Directors other than those who are retiring stand for Effectiveness and Evaluation re-election annually, subject of course to continued Many of the Directors have held senior positions at satisfactory performance.
Accordingly, neither the prominent investment banks or asset management Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that it companies.
In addition, there are Directors with would be in the best interests of the Company for considerable experience beyond these areas, including non-executive Directors to be appointed for specified Government and general commercial organisations.
The re-election of Directors at the forthcoming biographies of the Directors and executive management AGM is therefore recommended by the Board.
on pages 20 to 23 demonstrate a strength of experience in the areas required to oversee and implement the Accountability Companys strategic, investment and operational aims.
The Board, acting where appropriate through the Audit and Risk Committee, is responsible for determining the As described above, the process for the appointment of nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take new Directors to the Board is the responsibility of the in achieving its strategic objectives.
It is also responsible Nominations Committee, as is their induction and for maintaining sound risk management and internal ensuring on an ongoing basis that each Director is able to 26 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp024-pp039 04 03 2019 16:18 Page 27 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report control systems, for setting corporate reporting, risk view of the state of affairs, and of the profit or loss of the management and internal control principles and for Group and Parent Company for that period.
In preparing maintaining an appropriate relationship with the these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Companys auditors.
These areas are further described in select suitable accounting policies and then apply the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 29 to 31. them consistently: Relations with Shareholders state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the The Board ensures that an ongoing dialogue with European Union have been followed for both the principal shareholders and analysts is maintained, based Group and Company financial statements, subject to on a mutual understanding of the Companys objectives.
any material departures disclosed and explained in Questions from other shareholders are responded to the financial statements: promptly.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are JRCM regularly reports to the Board on its shareholder reasonable and prudent: and and analyst meetings to ensure that the members of the Board understand the views of shareholders about the prepare the financial statements on the going Company.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will continue All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and in business.
ask questions of the Directors and the Manager.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Compliance with the Code accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain It is the Boards view that the Company has complied the Group and Parent Companys transactions and with all relevant provisions of the Code during the year.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Further details as to how the Company has complied with financial position of the Group and Parent Company and the Code are set out in this Corporate Governance enable them to ensure that the financial statements and Report.
the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report statements, Article 4 of IAS Regulation.
and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the regulations.
assets of the Group and Parent Company, and hence for Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and financial statements in accordance with International integrity of the Parent Companys website.
Legislation in Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the the United Kingdom governing the preparation and European Union IFRS.
Under company law, the dissemination of financial statements may differ from Directors must not approve the financial statements legislation in other jurisdictions.
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 27 252434 RIT R&A pp024-pp039 04 03 2019 16:18 Page 28 Corporate Governance Report The Directors consider that, following advice from the By Order of the Board Audit and Risk Committee, the Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Parent Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit and Rothschild Risk Committee had reviewed the draft Report and Chairman Accounts for the purpose of this assessment.
RIT Capital Partners plc Each of the Directors, whose names and responsibilities are listed in the Corporate Governance Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Parent Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit for the Company: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report contains a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
28 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc
