Governance Audit Committee report I am pleased to report on the activities of our Audit Committee over the Membership past year.
The remit of the Committee is to assist the board in fulfilling The members of the Committee during the year and to the date of this its oversight responsibilities with regard to financial reporting and risk report were: governance, compliance and assurance.
We are also responsible for making Ann Godbehere chairman the recommendation to the board with regard to the appointment or David Constable from 5 March 2018 reappointment of the external auditors for the Group.
Moya Greene from 17 September 2018 In June 2018, we completed the audit tender process for the Groups Simon McKeon from 1 January 2019 external auditors, and recommended that the board should appoint KPMG Simon Henry as our external auditors with effect for the 2020 financial year.
The board Paul Tellier to 2 May 2018 agreed, and the formal appointment will occur subject to shareholder Simon Thompson to 5 March 2018 approval, early in 2020.
The members of the Committee are all non-executive directors.
Each was, In preparation, KPMG will shadow our incumbent auditors over the 2019 at all times, independent and free of any relationship that would affect their half-year and year-end results which will require KPMG to be independent impartiality.
You can find biographies of the current Committee members in accordance with applicable regulations and the Groups policy on the on pages 76 and 77. provision of non-audit services by the external auditor by 30 June 2019.
Weare currently transferring non-audit services away from KPMG, to As Rio Tintos securities are listed in Australia, the UK and the US, ensure they become independent in accordance with this time frame.
wefollowthe regulatory requirements and best practice governance recommendations for audit committees in each of these markets.
We continue to have a strong relationship with PwC, who will serve as ourauditors until we publish our 2019 accounts in early 2020.
They have Australian listing requirements already started planning with KPMG for an orderly transition between In Australia, the members, and the Committee as a whole, meet the thetwo firms.
independence requirements of the ASX Principles.
Specifically, the Committee members between them have the accounting and financial expertise and a Chris Lynch retired as chief financial officer in September and we would like sufficient understanding of the industry in which the company operates to to take this opportunity to thank Chris for his valued input and support to be able to discharge the Committees mandate effectively.
the Committee during his tenure as chief financial officer.
We were pleased to welcome JakobStausholm as the Groups new chief financial officer.
UK listing requirements In the UK, the members meet the requirements of the FCAs Disclosure Jakobs appointment has coincided with the implementation of the Groups Guidance and Transparency Rules and the provisions of the Code relating new operating model.
This includes the consolidation of most of Rio Tintos to audit committee composition.
Ann Godbehere, the current chairman, previously diverse risk functions into a single new specialist function and Simon Henry, the future chairman, are both considered by the board to reporting to Jakob from January 2019.
Risk have recent and relevant financial experience.
Ann has been a director of is and will always be owned by operational management, who provide the the company for nine years, while Simon and David Constable both have first line of defence.
A new Integrated Assurance Office, based in Brisbane, extensive prior experience of the natural resources sector.
The other coordinates the delivery of the range of risk assurance activities carried out members have gained experience of the mining sector by serving on the across the Group, collectively known as the second line of defence.
The board and on the Committee, and through regular site visits and ongoing entire programme is audited by the Groups internal audit function, who deep dives into aspects of the business.
The Committee as a whole has provide the third line of defence and whose head continues to report competence relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
functionally to me as chairman of the Audit Committee.
US listing requirements We said goodbye to two valued members of the Committee during the year.
In the US, the requirements for the Committees composition and role are In line with best practice, Simon Thompson stepped down when he became set out in SEC and NYSE rules.
The board has designated both Ann and chairman of the board in March 2018.
Paul Tellier retired from the board in Simon Henry as an audit committee financial expert.
My thanks go to both of them for their valuable contributions.
believes that the other members of the Committee are financially literate Iwas pleased to welcome David Constable and Moya Greene to the byvirtue of their wide business experience.
Committee during 2018, as well as Simon McKeon upon his appointment tothe board in January 2019.
They bring the combined benefits of wide Induction for new members business and financial experience to our deliberations.
Finally, this will be To meet our responsibilities, everyone on the Committee must understand my last report as the Committee chairman.
I advised the board in February their role.
Our new members all receive a full, tailored induction.
David and 2019 that, after nine years service, I will retire at the 2019 AGMs.
The Moya met the Group financial controller, the heads of Group internal audit chairmanship of the Committee will pass to Simon Henry and I wish him andEthics & Integrity, and the acting head of Risk, as well as the lead audit andthe other Committee members every success in the future.
engagement partners in the UK and Australia.
They also took part in teach-ins on new accounting standards, and in a board deep dives on the process for identifying and assessing potential impairments and reversals.
Simon McKeon is in the process of completing a similar programme.
Ann Godbehere Audit Committee chairman 27 February 2019 90 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Governance Committee remit We had six regular meetings in 2018, plus an additional meeting for the final The Committees objectives and responsibilities are set out in our terms stage of the audit tender process.
Attendance at these meetings is included ofreference see the Rio Tinto website.
These follow the relevant best in the table on page 87.
The Committee has met three times to date in 2019. practice recommendations in Australia, the UK and the US.
The chairman of the board, the chief financial officer, the Group financial Our main duties are: controller and the heads of GIA, Ethics & Integrity and Risk regularly attend Financial reporting we review the key judgments needed to apply our meetings, as do the Group General Counsel and the Group company accounting standards and to prepare the Groups financial statements.
We invite other senior executives and subject-matter experts We also review the narrative reporting that goes with these, with the asneeded.
aimof maintaining integrity in the Groups financial reporting.
Finally, wemonitor any exclusions made in deriving alternative non-GAAP The external auditors were present at all six regular Committee meetings performance measures such as underlying earnings.
The auditors review all materials on accounting or tax External audit we oversee the relationship with the external auditors matters in advance of each meeting, and their comments are included in and review all the non-audit services they provide, and the fees for the papers circulated to Committee members.
The audit partners also meet these, to safeguard the auditors independence and objectivity.
We also with our Committee chairman ahead of each meeting to discuss key issues assess the effectiveness of the external audit and, when necessary, and raise any concerns.
carryout a formal tender process to select new auditors.
Framework for internal control and risk management we monitor the The Committee meets regularly in private session.
We also hold regular effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including those over private discussions with the chief financial officer, the heads of GIA and financial reporting.
We also oversee the Groups risk management Ethics & Integrity, and the external auditors.
Management do not attend framework.
The Committee chairman also has regular contact and Group Internal Audit GIA we oversee the work of GIA, and its head, discussions with these stakeholders outside the formal meetings.
who reports functionally to our Committee chairman.
Ethics and integrity we oversee the Groups ethics and integrity Use of Committee meeting time in 2018 function, which until the start of 2019 included the Talk to Peggy whistleblowing programme.
In line with new best practice in the UK, Financial reporting 39% responsibility for oversight of the whistleblowing programme has now External audit 19% transferred to the board.
Internal control and risk management 15% Internal audit 13% These duties feed into an annual work plan that ensures we consider Ethics and integrity 10% issueson a timely basis.
The Committee has authority to investigate any Governance 4% matters within our remit.
We have the power to use any Group resources we may reasonably require, and we have direct access to the external auditors.
We can also obtain independent professional advice at the Groups expense, where we deem necessary.
The Committee chairman reports to the board after each meeting This illustration does not include the significant time spent by the onthemain items discussed, and the minutes of our meetings are Committee on the external audit tender process during the year circulatedtothe board.
Significant issues relating to the financial statements There were four significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements: Matters considered Conclusion Review of carrying value of The Committee assessed managements determination of cash-generating units, review of impairment triggers cash-generating units and and consideration of potential impairment charges and reversals over the course of the year.
For cashimpairment charges reversals generating units dependent upon major capital spend Oyu Tolgoi and those where impairment indicators were identified Rssing Uranium, ISAL, the Committee considered the key judgments made by management in relation to discount rates, forecasted commodity prices and updates to orebody estimates.
The Committee reviewed disclosures related to impairment reviews in note 6 and the impairment charges of $0.1 billion.
Application of the policy for The Committee reviewed the Groups policy for exclusion of certain items from underlying earnings and items excluded from confirmed the consistent application of this policy year on year.
The items excluded from underlying earnings underlying earnings comprised income of $5.3 billion and expenses of $0.5 billion.
A reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings is presented in note 2.
Estimate of provision for The Committee reviewed the significant changes in the estimated provision for closure, restoration and closure, restoration and environmental obligations by product group and legacy management.
At 31 December 2018, the Groups environmental obligations balance sheet included provision for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations of $10.0 billion as described in note 26.
The Groups tax exposures The Committee considered managements assessment of the Groups tax exposures, including the recoverability of deferred tax assets which are uncertain due to the timing of expiry of tax loss carry-forwards in certain jurisdictions.
The Committee received updates on the status of ongoing discussions with the Australian Tax Office relating to the transfer pricing of certain transactions with the Groups commercial centre in Singapore and considered the appropriateness of provisions for uncertain tax positions.
Audit Committee report Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 91 Governance Audit Committee report continued Other focus areas in 2018 Safeguarding independence and objectivity, and In addition to our normal workload, the Committee focused on the  following: In our relationship with PwC, we need to ensure that they retain their The tender for new external auditors, as outlined in the Committee independence and objectivity, and continue to be effective in performing chairmans introduction.
Following the decision to appoint KPMG, the statutory audit.
we then oversaw the tender to appoint a new co-sourcing provider of internal audit services.
Use of the external auditors for non-audit services Reviewing the new accounting standards in force for the 2018 financial The external auditors have significant knowledge and experience of our statements IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 as well as the new lease accounting business and of how we apply our accounting policies.
That means it is standard IFRS 16 effective 1 January 2019, and the Groups plans for sometimes cost-efficient for them to provide non-audit services.
also be confidentiality reasons that make them the preferred choice for a Reviewing an external assessment of the effectiveness of GIA.
Reviewing the terms of reference of the Ore Reserves Steering Committee and the control environment over the estimation of mineral However, safeguarding their objectivity and independence as external resources and ore reserves.
auditors is an overriding priority.
For this reason, and in line with the FRCs Monitoring the reorganisation of the existing risk functions into a new, Ethical Standard, the Committee ensures that the external auditors do not fully integrated and coordinated assurance function, and the transfer perform any functions of management, undertake any work which they may of this to the chief financial officer.
later need to audit or rely upon in the audit, or serve in an advocacy role for Monitoring the implementation of the Group operating model, as it the Group.
Reviewing the Groups preparations for the implementation of the We have a written policy governing the use of the auditors to provide General Data Protection Regulation, the new data privacy framework non-audit services.
There is an overall cap on the total fees that may be put in place across the EU.
paid to the external auditors for non-audit services in any given year, being 70% of the average of the audit fees for the preceding three years.
This is We also reviewed the quality and effectiveness of the Groups internal also in line with the FRCs Ethical Standard.
The non-audit assignments control systems.
For the first time, this was done jointly with members of tend to fall into two broad areas: the Sustainability Committee, who oversee a number of key corporate risks.
Audit, audit-related and certain other pre-approved services This review included the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over this is work of a type where we know that there is no obvious threat financial reporting, and the Groups disclosure controls and procedures in to the auditors independence and objectivity, other than through the accordance with sections 404 and 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. fees payable.
The Committee also received reports from GIA and PwC on their work in Other services these include all other non-audit services we allow our reviewing and auditing the control environment.
After a robust process, in early 2019, the Committee recommended to the We apply different approval regimes to these areas of work.
In relation to board that the draft 2018 Annual report is, taken as a whole, fair, balanced audit, audit-related and certain other pre-approved services, the approval and understandable.
is based on the fees payable: Up to $50,000 subject to prior notification to management, this work Contact with regulators can be awarded to the external auditors.
During the year, the Company received a letter from the FRCs Corporate From $50,000 $100,000 requires the chief financial officers approval.
Reporting Review team in relation to the 2017 financial statements and the Over $100,000, and with a tender process if PwC are successful in the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit.
Managements response was reviewed by tender, their appointment requires the chief financial officers approval.
the Committee chairman and discussed with the external auditors.
From $100,000 $250,000, with no tender process requires the chief Management has provided disclosure in Note 6 relating to the outcome of financial officers approval.
the review for impairment indicators for the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating Over $250,000, with no tender process requires the Committees or unit.
As noted last year, the FRCs report on their routine audit quality Committee chairmans approval.
review of the audit of our 2016 financial statements was assessed by the Committee at a meeting in February 2018.
In each case, the nature of the assignment and the fees payable are reported to the Committee.
External auditors Engagement of the external auditors For other permitted services, the chief financial officer can approve an For the current financial year, PwC remain our auditors.
The UK entity of appointment, provided the fees for the task are no more than $50,000 and PwC audits Rio Tinto plc, and the Australian entity audits Rio Tinto Limited.
the aggregate fees approved in this way do not exceed $100,000 between The UK audit engagement partner, Paul Barkus, was appointed in 2016, Committee meetings.
Once this happens, or if the fee is over $50,000, the andthe Australian partner, Debbie Smith, was appointed in 2017.
Committee or the Committee chairman must give prior approval.
This year, as usual, we agreed the scope of the auditors review of the At the half-year and year-ends, the chief financial officer and the external half-year accounts, and of their audit of the full-year accounts taking into auditors report to the Committee on non-audit services performed, and consideration the key risks and areas of material judgment for the Group.
We also approved the fees for this work and the engagement letters for theauditors.
All of the non-audit services provided by PwC in 2018 were either within the pre-approval policies or specifically approved by the Committee.
We are satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by PwC in accordance with this procedure is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors and the other requirements of the relevant Australian, UK and US regulations.
com Governance Fees for audit and non-audit services Re-appointment of the auditors The amounts payable to the external auditors, PwC, in each of the The Committee has reviewed the independence, objectivity and past two years were: effectiveness of PwC as external auditors in 2018 and in the year to date.
We have recommended to the board that PwC should be retained in this 2018 2017 $m $m role for 2019, which the board supports.
Audit fees 16.7 14.3 PwC have indicated that they are willing to continue as auditors of Rio Tinto.
Non-audit fees: A resolution to reappoint them as auditors of Rio Tinto plc will therefore be Assurance services 4.2 3.3 proposed as a joint resolution at the 2019 AGMs, together with a separate Taxation services 0.0 0.5 resolution seeking authority for the Committee to determine the external All other fees 0.2 0.7 auditors remuneration.
Total non-audit fees 4.4 4.5 Non-audit: audit fees in-year 26% 31% Subject to approval of the above resolution, PwC will continue in office as auditors of Rio Tinto Limited.
For further analysis of these fees, please see note 39.
Risk management and internal controls None of the individual non-audit assignments were significant, either in We review Rio Tintos internal control systems and the risk management terms of the work done or the fees payable.
We have reviewed the non-audit framework.
We also monitor risks falling within our remit, especially those work in aggregate.
We are satisfied that neither the work done, nor the fees relating to the integrity of financial reporting.
A summary of the businesss payable, could compromise the independence and objectivity of PwC as our internal control and risk management systems, and of the principal risks external auditors.
and uncertainties we face, is in the Strategic report on pages 64 to 72.
Independence of the external auditors Importantly, responsibility for operating and maintaining the internal PwC, as the Groups external auditors, are required to provide a declaration control environment and risk management systems sits at asset level.
to the directors in relation to their compliance with the independence Leaders of our businesses and functions are required to complete a requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and the professional representation letter each year, in which they confirm that adequate code of conduct for external auditors.
A copy of this is on page 254. internal controls are in place, that these are operating effectively and are designed to identify any failings and weaknesses that may exist, and that No person who served as an officer of Rio Tinto during 2018 was a director any required actions are taken promptly.
or partner of PwC at a time when they conducted an audit of the Group.
Two management committees, the Executive Committee and the Disclosure Effectiveness of the external auditors Committee, regularly review reports on the Groups control framework.
In February 2018, the Committee reviewed the results of the FRCs Audit The work they do satisfies the relevant requirements of the Code, Quality Review of PwCs audit of the 2016 financial statements.
The review the ASX Principles, the NYSE Standards and section 404 of the findings, which were not significant, have been accepted and addressed Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. by PwC.
GIA runs an annual testing programme on the internal control environment, We further reviewed the effectiveness of PwC as auditors at our meeting in and presents its findings to the Audit Committee, Sustainability Committee June 2018.
We considered the results of a survey containing questions on and the Executive Committee.
PwCs objectivity, quality and efficiency.
It was completed by a range of operational and corporate executives across the business, and by The Audit Committee reviews the Groups risk management framework, Committee members.
The overall rating of PwCs effectiveness was positive typically twice a year.
The most recent review was in February 2019. and respondents perceived PwC as having an ongoing commitment to improve audit quality.
Audit tender process We considered tenders from Deloitte, EY and KPMG for a standalone PwC have been our external auditors since before the formation of the appointment as external auditors, with an understanding that the chosen DLC structure in 1995.
While their reappointment in recent years has firm could be reappointed without a tender each year for up to ten years.
been subject to rigorous scrutiny by the Committee, there was no formal The Committee recommended the appointment of KPMG, and this was tender process until this year.
Their appointment for the 2020 financial year is subject to the approval of shareholders at our AGMs in 2020.
Planning is The Committee chairmans introduction to this report explains the already underway, and there will also be a shadowing period to ensure outcome of the tender which took place in the first half of 2018.
It was a asmooth handover from PwC.
short, controlled and centralised process led by the Committee, and management did not provide any recommendations.
Following KPMGs appointment, we will continue to keep the external audit arrangements under regular review.
com 93 Governance Audit Committee report continued We also regularly monitor our risk management and internal control Effectiveness of the internal audit programme systems including internal financial controls.
We aim to have appropriate The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the GIA function policies, standards and procedures in place, and ensure that they throughout the year, with updates on performance at every meeting.
In addition, this year the IIA-Australia conducted an independent quality assessment of GIA and the results were reported to the Committee.
As part of considering the risk management framework, the Committee Thefindings of the current year assessment were that GIA is operating receives regular reports from the Group financial controller, the General atahigh level, with leading practices evident.
Further, the maturity of Counsel and the Head of Group Tax on material developments in the legal, GIAagainst the IIA standards was rated within the highest category of regulatory and fiscal landscape in which the Group operates.
The assessment also provided someuseful suggestions for further improvement which are being The board, supported by the Audit Committee, has completed its formal actioned.
The last such assessment was completed in 2015. annual review of the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems.
This review included consideration of our material The Committee conducted its own annual review in February 2019 and financial, operational and compliance controls.
We concluded that the issatisfied that the quality, experience and expertise of GIA is appropriate Group has taken, or is taking, appropriate steps to address any failings for the business and that GIA was objective and performed its role orweaknesses identified by our internal control framework.
We also monitored managements response to internal audits during the year.
We are satisfied that improvements are being implemented Internal control over financial reporting promptly in response to internal audit findings, and believe that The main features of our internal control and risk management systems management supports the effective working of the internal audit function.
inrelation to financial reporting are explained on pages 140 and 141.
Ethics, integrity and the whistleblowing programme Internal audit The business has a long-established ethics programme, known as Programme structure Thewaywe work, supported by a whistleblowing programme branded GIA provides independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and as TalktoPeggy.
Both have been relaunched in the past three years.
effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
It also The whistleblowing programme enables employees, in confidence, may recommend improvements.
to raise concerns about possible improprieties.
While the head of GIA reports administratively to the chief executive, The head of Ethics & Integrity attended three of our Committee meetings appointment to, or removal from, this role requires the consent of the Audit during 2018.
His reports covered a broad range of areas, including ethics, Committee Chairman.
The head of GIA is accountable to the chairmen of regulatory and compliance issues.
Importantly, each report included a full both the Audit and Sustainability Committees, and communicates regularly review of reports provided through the whistleblowing programme, and with both, attending all regular committee meetings.
Our GIA team theactions that resulted.
therefore operates independently of management.
Their mandate is set out in a written charter, reviewed by theAudit Committee each year, with the Committee effectiveness most recent sign-off in June 2018.
GIA uses a formal internal audit A formal performance evaluation of the Committee took place during methodology, which is consistent with the Institute of Internal Auditors theyear.
Committee members used an online questionnaire tool to rate IIAs  standards.
performance and provide commentary across a variety of areas.
After considering the results of the evaluation, they decided that more time When needed, the team brings in external partners to help achieve its should be allocated to risk management issues including introducing the goals.
There is a clear policy to address any conflicts of interest, which new joint session with the Sustainability Committee as highlighted earlier complies with the IIAs standards on independence.
This policy identifies inthis report.
alist of services which need prior approval from the head of GIA.
Governance of the annual plan Each years internal audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee and the Sustainability Committee.
The plan is focused on higher-risk areas and any specific areas or processes chosen by the Committees.
It is also aligned with any risks identified by the external auditors.
Both committees are given regular updates on progress, including any material findings, and canrefine the plans as needed.
