Governance The board in action In 2018, we took a close look at The way we work as a board and identified We hope that these improvements will strengthen our strategic focus and aseries of improvements, as part of an internally facilitated board and improve both the challenge and the support that theboard provides to the committee evaluation.
Considering the right things We want to make sure the board is working in ways that add the most value to the business.
The principal responsibilities of the board are to: Environmental, social and Set the Groups purpose, values and strategy, and ensure that the Groups culture is aligned with these.
governance issues ESG has to Appoint the executive team including the executive directors, who be a vital focus of the board.
are responsible for fulfilling our purpose, upholding our values, and developing and delivering the strategy.
Monitor the Groups performance in delivering its strategy, including ensuring that the necessary resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
Analyse external trends, and assess the opportunities and risks that they may present.
Establish a framework of prudent and effective controls that enables these risks to be assessed and managed.
Engage with shareholders and other stakeholders to ensure that their views and concerns are taken into account.
Much of our work over the year has been focused on continuing to reshape the portfolio and invest in value-accretive growth, while optimising the performance of our core assets.
at the right time To ensure that we are maintaining the right balance between monitoring past performance and thinking about the future, we have developed a We have reduced the number of board detailed rolling agenda for the board and its committees.
We consider matters under four key pillars: the performance of the business: priority meetings, but increased their length items relating to the Groups strategy or risk profile: items requiring a andeffectiveness.
board decision, such as prospective investments: and governance.
We have reduced the number of board meetings, but increased their length and effectiveness.
Committee meetings now run consecutively, rather than concurrently, so that board members can attend all meetings if they wish.
We have also added two dedicated strategy meetings to the annual cycle the first to review the external environment and to identify priorities for the executive team to evaluate, and the second to make decisions.
with the right people and insights Recognising that no board can possess all the necessary skills and experience, we aim to become more effective conveners of expertise, We want to make sure that we are making arranging site visits, presentations by internal and external experts, and other education programmes ahead of critical strategic or investment thedecisions and judgments that matter, decisions.
These initiatives are underpinned by an improved with the skills and information we need.
understanding of the capabilities of the current board.
We have developed a skills and competencies matrix for the board summarised on page 89 which has helped us to identify potential gaps and informed decisions on new appointments.
Within the wider organisation, we recognise the need to augment our existing technical strengths by developing or recruiting new skills and talent, in some cases from non-traditional sources.
This in turn means that we have to adapt our culture, building on the great strengths that have served Rio Tinto so well over the past 146 years, while embracing new ideas and fresh approaches.
We describe this work on page 84.
We have also stepped up our engagement with a wide range of stakeholders to ensure that their ideas and concerns are better reflected in our operational and strategic decision-making.
Some of these activities are described on the following page.
com Governance Matters discussed in 2018 We set out below some of the matters which the board has considered We have also provided case studies of the boards work in relation to during 2018, grouped under the new headings that we use to structure strategy, culture and values, stakeholder engagement and induction our agendas.
Performance Decisions Approved: Reviewed: Disposal of the Groups remaining coal assets in Queensland, Causes of, and learnings from, major safety events, including the Australia, for a combined consideration of $4.15 billion pre tax.
circumstances around the three fatalities in 2018 at Sorel-Tracy in $3.2 billion share buy-back programme returning the post-tax Quebec, Richards Bay Minerals in South Africa, and our Paraburdoo coal disposal proceeds to shareholders, comprising approximately mine in Western Australia.
$2.1billion off-market purchases in Rio Tinto Limited shares Updates of the Groups major capital projects, including Oyu Tolgoi and $1.1 billion on-market purchases in Rio Tinto plc shares.
with a particular focus on the Power Agreement, Resolution, An additional $1 billion on-market share buy-back programme Grasberg and Richards Bay Minerals.
Financial, operational and safety performance against KPIs.
Sale of the Groups entire interest in the Grasberg mine in Indonesia Investor feedback.
Sale of the Groups interest in Rssing Uranium Limited in Namibia, Approved: expected to complete in 2019.
The Annual Plan for 2018 and endorsed the Groups five-year Bond purchase and redemption plan for up to $2.25 billion to business plan 2019-2023. reduce gross debt.
The 2017 full year results and the 2018 half year results $2.6 billion investment in the Koodaideri iron ore mine in Western announcements, including the 2017 final dividend, and declared Australia, our most technologically advanced mine.
Sale of the Groups aluminium smelter at Dunkerque, France for headline proceeds of $500 million.
Appraised the impact of investment in AutoHaul to date and approved Lease and sale of a wharf and land in Kitimat, British Columbia, additional funding to complete the project.
to LNG Canada for a consideration of $0.6 billion.
Conducted post-investment reviews of a number of completed projects with potential for broad future learnings across the Group.
Governance Approved the appointment of: Priority issues Strategic Risk Jakob Stausholm as the new chief financial officer.
Reviewed: Two new non-executive directors: Moya Greene and Simon McKeon.
And confirmed the Groups strategy at two separate strategy days in KPMG as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2020, June and September.
The Groups new sustainability framework and draft report under Approved: the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures guidelines.
Updated terms of reference for the board and board committees.
Updates with regard to global regulatory compliance with a focus As part of its annual review, the Groups tax strategy.
on data privacy, anti-trust, anti-bribery and corruption and Reviewed: regulatory policy.
A multi-year initiative to embed the culture-change programme A new country risk framework.
Material cyber security risks for the Group, and the external factors Results of the March and October 2018 employee engagement and threats driving the Groups cyber security strategy the surveys and the actions contemplated by management in response.
chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer also participated in a business resilience exercise based on a cyber attack.
Received updates from the Investigations Committee on the ongoing Endorsed the Groups principal risks and mitigation measures.
investigation and proceedings in relation to our historical issues in Guinea and Mozambique.
Teach-ins Discussed the board performance evaluation results and agreed practices and priorities for the coming year.
Received a technical teach-in on orebody knowledge.
Considered corporate governance and regulatory developments for Hosted external speakers in May and June to discuss China.
theUK, Australia and the US, including the new Code.
Carried out strategic deep dives on Copper and Iron Ore.
Received: A brief on the historical context of the Oyu Tolgoi project, and a detailed update on its current status.
A teach in on the Ranger mine closure and rehabilitation ahead of the visit by certain non-executive directors to the mine in November 2018.
A live demonstration of the Groups risk management platform, Archer.
Matters discussed in 2018 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 83 Governance 2018 highlights Meeting with the Strategy team in preparation Two-stage strategy process For the first time this year, we dedicated two complete meetings in for the September strategy sessionwith the theannual cycle of board activity to our strategy.
board helped me to gain a deep and immediate Step 1 At our first session in June, we reviewed progress over the preceding understanding ofthe strategic drivers of the six months, analysed the external context and identified strategic priorities requiring further investigation.
miningindustry and the opportunities that Step 2 At our second session, in September, we took decisions on the lieaheadfor Rio Tinto.
priorities identified in the June session.
But to really understand our business, you need to see our assets and The board agreed the following strategic priorities: people first hand.
In the four months to the end of 2018, I visited 22 Continuing the drive towards greater productivity, with an increased focus assets, offices and projects, in nine countries across four continents.
These visits allowed me time to begin to understand the operational Continuing to strengthen our partnership with China, with a stronger complexity of our assets, howthey do business locally, and how focus on industrial and environmental collaboration, including through thiscontributes to their financial performance.
the Belt and Road Initiative.
Continuing to increase the resilience of our portfolio with a focus on Tier 1 Jakob Stausholm assets and balance sheet strength.
Chief financial officer Identifying emerging supply and demand gaps in the various commodity markets, and pursuing opportunities for growth and differentiated productofferings.
Responding to changing societal expectations, including an increasing Defining our culture, values and behaviours ESG focus both internally and externally, and a renewed commitment We need to prepare Rio Tinto for sustainable success in an era that we tostakeholder engagement.
anticipate will be characterised by significant societal shifts.
To ensure Positioning Rio Tinto as part of the solution to climate change through thatRio Tinto continues to pioneer progress in mining and metals in our differentiated product portfolio, increasing the climate change the21stcentury we need to develop a culture that is more open, agile resilience of our assets and the development of a feasible pathway andcollaborative.
towards decarbonisation of the business by 2050.
To this end, we have embarked on a multi-year culture change At the meetings, the board used a framework to assess external growth programme, with the commitment and support of employees and leadership options and considered the organic growth pipeline including exploration.
including strong endorsement by both the board and Executive Committee.
Deepening board members skills and knowledge 2017 We started with work to sharpen our purpose and values as a This year, we have enhanced training and development for board company, while at the same time strengthening our code of members by introducing a programme of teach-ins and deep dives conduct, Theway wework.
to complement our schedule of site visits and to build experience and 2018 This year, the board has monitored management initiatives to understanding of the business and local operating conditions.
We have engage employees on these issues and on our future prospects also begun to tailor individual site visits so they are more relevant for and vision as a company in a rapidly changing world.
We have directors committee responsibilities and sought to integrate the timing launched brand campaigns in Australia, Canada and Mongolia, and of visits to complement upcoming board decisions.
established a Pioneer Lab concept Rio Tinto 4.0, which we hope will serve as an incubator for new ideas to help us tackle some of our biggest challenges and opportunities.
Initiatives such as those Enhancing transparency taken to eradicate domestic violence, and the development of our sustainability framework, have helped to define our values and culture.
The board recognises the need for greater transparency on issues of 2019 Two important initiatives for 2019 will be the roll-out of the concern to stakeholders.
During the year we have approved: RioTinto behaviours, which will give expression to how we The publication of the companys annual assessment of compliance wishtosee our cultureand values applied.
with the Voluntary Principles on Security and HumanRights.
A new contract and tax transparency policy.
Working with the senior management team, the board seeks to monitor A global statement recognising the importance of maintaining an culture, values and behaviours through a series of formal and informal open and vibrant space for civil society.
interactions, such as site visits, town halls and the employee AGM.
We also A report on our membership of industry associations, setting out use a range of metrics including safety performance, absenteeism, staff where their policy positions on climate change differ from ours.
retention and turnover rates, employee surveys, exit interviews, major Our first report under the TCFD recommendations.
breaches of The way we work, and calls to our whistleblowing programme, A new policy on inclusion and diversity, jointly owned by the Talk to Peggy.
This year, for example, 679 incidents were reported either boardand the Executive Committee.
through Talk to Peggy, compliance managers or team leaders.
Of these, 53% related to human resource issues: 23% to business integrity matters: and 7% to health, safety or environmental matters.
As part of our review of culture, during 2019, the Remuneration Committee will consider whether the safety, business and financial targets we use may inadvertently create unintended incentives or behaviours.
com Governance Engaging with a wide range of stakeholders Seeing the full picture: mine closures Rio Tinto has long recognised that effective management of stakeholder relations is a strategic imperative.
In the 1980s, for example, Rio Tinto Mine closures have a significant impact on the workforce, local pioneered land agreements with Traditional Owners in Australia, and in the communities, and the environment.
Managing the closure and late 1990s, we championed the Mining, Metals and Sustainable Initiative remediation of assets responsibly is therefore a key focus for the that gave rise to the International Council on Mining and Metals and helped Group, and it is essential that the board has an in-depth understanding to reset relations between the industry, local communities and civil society.
We therefore welcome the focus on stakeholder engagement in the Financial Reporting Councils revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
This year, our work to understand the closure of the Ranger uranium mine in the Northern Territory, Australia, owned by Energy Resources During the year, we developed our response to the Codes new emphasis on of Australia ERA, which is 68% owned by Rio Tinto, demonstrates our purpose, values and culture see page 84, and discussed the most effective focus on responsible closure as well as the boards approach to means of further enhancing engagement with our host communities and developing its knowledge and understanding of key issues.
governments, employees, customers and suppliers.
At our October 2018 board meeting, members took part in a Major institutional and retail investors teach-in on ERA covering the history of its operations, stakeholders, In addition to our ongoing engagement with major institutional and retail governance and regulatory environment and progress of the Ranger investors, including at our two AGMs in 2018, we held investor seminars in Closure Feasibility Study.
We also discussed Rio Tintos role in October in London and in November in Sydney that focused specifically on assisting ERA to deliver the rehabilitation of the Ranger mine so ESG issues.
it can be incorporated into the Kakadu National Park.
ESG analysts In November, members of the Sustainability Committee visited ERA At the seminars, around 50 ESG analysts from some of our largest investors to obtain a first-hand understanding of closure planning and heard updates from the chairman, chief executive and our committee chairs execution.
The lessons learnt have application to a number of on our ESG strategy and priorities.
A panel session gave analysts the upcoming mine closures.
opportunity to ask questions and raise the emerging issues and trends they considered relevant to Rio Tinto.
Civil society and investor groups Supporting new appointments The chairman also hosted two roundtable discussions in Melbourne and Washington with civil society and investor groups.
These helped to inform Induction processes for new board members and new appointments anumber of decisions that were taken during the year relating to our help to ensure the board has the right balance of skills.
This year, we environmental and social performance and disclosure, as well as our appointed two new non-executive directors, Moya Greene and Simon ongoing engagement plan with relevant stakeholders.
They also McKeon, a new chief financial officer, Jakob Stausholm, and a new provided valuable input to the process of refreshing and updating chairman but existing board member, Simon Thompson.
Simon Thompsons induction process included shareholder meetings Our employees in the UK, Australia and China, site visits to several of our key In November, we held our first employee AGM, at which more than 500 operations, participation in the senior leader conference in Beijing, colleagues joined the board and Executive Committee in Brisbane for an and meetings with other stakeholders in the UK, Australia and the US.
Employees posed questions on subjects Tailored induction programmes have also been prepared for Moya including risk, growth, productivity, climate change, sustainability, safety, Greene and Simon McKeon.
graduate recruitment, culture, and our reputation.
Afterwards, employees had the chance to meet the board informally while exploring a number of Jakobs induction was supported by a comprehensive library of key pop-up stalls showcasing some of the innovative work under way around recent internal reports, memos and presentations cutting across all the business.
The event was webcast to other Rio Tinto locations, and commercial, operational and functional areas of the Group, site visits, subsequently posted on our internal portal, where it was viewed by and meetings with senior leaders across the business and with approximately 1,000 employees.
In 2019, we plan to hold our investors and other stakeholders including in the UK and in Australia.
500 Employees attended our first employee AGM inBrisbane 2018 highlights Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
