Governance Evaluating our performance Evaluating our performance In 2019, we will hold an externally facilitated evaluation with Lintstock An effective board depends on the personal development of individual to provide fresh insights into the continuous improvement of board directors and continuous improvement in the operation of the board as a performance.
As part of that process, in addition to the usual interviews of whole.
We measure our performance each year by carrying out a formal board members, Lintstock will interview the executive management team, annual review of the board, its committees, the chairman and the auditors and the Group companysecretary.
Individual assessments In 2018, we engaged the specialist corporate advisory firm Lintstock The chairman is responsible for evaluating the performance of to conduct an evaluation.
The evaluation covered board composition: non-executive directors.
In 2018, he met each non-executive director oversight of strategy and risk: oversight of culture, values and key to reviewtheir views on and contribution to the board, as well as their stakeholders: understanding of the external environment: board dynamics: training requirements.
management of meetings, including time allocation and board support: quality of management information on performance and investment The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, are decisions: risk management: personal development and training: and responsible for the performance evaluation of the chairman.
Lintstock is a specialist corporate advisory firm with independent director met with the non-executive directors and, separately, no other connection to Rio Tinto.
the executive directors to gather feedback to provide to the chairman on hisperformance.
The board and committees have reviewed and discussed the evaluation and agreed an action plan, summarised below.
Overall, respondents agreed that the performance of the board has improved since the last board review, and observed a steady improvement in board dynamics.
Topic 2018 progress Further action Board composition The appointments of Moya Greene and Simon Update succession plans for the chief executive and chief financial officer.
McKeon bring relevant business expertise and enhance the Canadian and Australian Continue to refresh the board while increasing diversity, targeting skills and representationon the board.
experience in government relations: finance: technology and data analytics: and relevant sector expertise.
Planning was undertaken to identify successors for the roles of senior independent director and chairman of the Audit Committee.
Strategic oversight The involvement of the board in strategy, the clarity The board will continue to focus on the following strategic priorities in 2019: of the Groups strategy and the communication of Productivity strategy externally were positively rated, as was the Growth boards oversight of strategic implementation.
China Building organisational capacity and capability and driving cultural change.
The chief financial officer will also consider an enhanced framework of financial metrics against which the board can analyse and stress test strategic options, new investments and business plan scenarios.
Further work will be carried out to conduct multi-year analysis of product groups and assets as part of ongoing strategic reviews.
Board reporting Overall, the quality of board documentation received Work to be undertaken to create a template for board and committee papers to a positive rating, with papers generally viewed as well provide greater brevity, clarity and consistency for papers.
Stakeholders Greater use of external speakers.
The boards forward agenda of business includes plans for customer supplier representatives to present at board meetings and for the results of a customer Increased and more effective engagement with and supplier survey to be considered.
Additional customer supplier research employees, investors and civil society groups on findings are also to be considered.
The board and its committees will continue to utilise external speakers and The boards understanding of customers and subject-matter experts to enhance understanding of issues such as China, climate suppliers received a mixed response.
change and the energy transition.
At the strategy meeting in September, the board Further workforce engagement initiatives will seek to build understanding, across received a report from one of its financial advisers different jurisdictions, of employee attitudes to work practices and to the company onthe investor communitys perception of the board ingeneral.
and the Groups strategy, culture, principal risks andopportunities, and business and financial Further outside in views of the company, including from investor-relations advisers.
Site visits to include more opportunities for board members to meet local government officials and community leaders.
com Governance 1 Directors attendance at scheduled board and committee meetings during 2018 Committee Annual general appointments Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Sustainability Chairmans meetings Chairman and Executive directors Jan du Plessis retired 5 March 2018 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 Simon Thompson appointed chairman on 5 March 2018 9 9 2 2 8 8 5 5 8 8 2 2 Jean-Sbastien Jacques 9 9 9 11 2 2 Chris Lynch retired 3 September 2018 6 6 9 9 2 2 Jakob Stausholm appointed 3 September 2018 3 3 2 2 Non-executive directors Megan Clark 9 9 8 8 5 5 5 5 2 2 David Constable 9 9 5 5 8 8 2 2 2 2 Moya Greene appointed 17 September 2018 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 Ann Godbehere 9 9 7 7 8 8 5 5 2 2 2 Simon Henry 9 9 7 7 7 8 2 2 2 2 Sam Laidlaw 9 9 8 8 2 2 5 5 2 2 Michael LEstrange 9 9 8 8 5 5 2 2 Paul Tellier retired 2 May 2018 3 4 2 2 3 4 3 4 1 2 1 Outside of the scheduled meetings of the board and committees for 2018, certain ad hoc meetings took place to consider more urgent matters.
2 Simon Henry was unable to attend a Nominations Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
Our plans and priorities for 2019 The board identified the following focus areas for 2019: Focusing on strategy and growth options Culture, capacity and capability continue to consider the Groups 3- to 5-year strategy againsta continue to enhance the boards oversight of culture and behaviours.
number of different external scenarios and a maturing financial ensure that the Group has the organisational capacity and capabilities framework.
to deliver its strategic objectives.
seek to identify appropriate growth options for the business, while review the executive and senior management talent pipeline and maintaining our disciplined approach to capital allocation.
Operational efficiency and closure Stakeholder engagement monitor the Groups productivity performance.
improve the boards understanding of key customers and suppliers.
ensure we capture the experience and understanding gained from continue to formalise mechanisms to hear the views of the Groups closure and rehabilitation work at ERA as well as Argyle and Diavik workforce, and to shape decision-making accordingly.
to inform future planning for the closure of our more matureassets.
Training and development Supporting management continue to enhance the boards knowledge of Asia, and China support the continued on-boarding of the newly appointed inparticular.
conduct deep dives into the Groups commercial marketing, logistics continue to enhance relations between executive and non-executive and procurement activities and our aluminium members of the board, creating an informal, challenging but product group.
provide support and advice on Group initiatives and emerging issues, including community engagement models, strategic scenario planning, digitalisation and the Groups technology strategy.
Evaluating our performance Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
