Governance Nominations Committee report The Nominations Committee seeks to ensure that the board has Building an inclusive culture theright mixture of skills, experience and background to enable Rio Tinto is committed to promoting behaviours that support an inclusive itto identify and respond appropriately to current and future and diverse workplace and that reflect our values of safety, teamwork, opportunities and challenges.
Itreviews the composition of the respect, integrity and excellence.
This commitment is set out in our global board and makes recommendations to the board as part of the code of conduct, The way we work.
succession planning for both non-executive and executive directors.
It also approves proposals for appointments to the The board aims to lead by example and recognises that it has an important Executive Committee and monitors the succession plans and role to play in creating an environment in which all contributions are valued, talentpipeline for Executive Committee members and their different perspectives are embraced, and biases are acknowledged and directreports.
The board shares ownership with the Executive Committee ofthe Groups inclusion and diversity policy, which can be found on the Groups website at riotinto.
Membership of the Committee All non-executive directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
The chief executive and the Human Resources Group executive are invited to attend all or part of most meetings.
Simon Thompson Nominations Committee chairman Appointments to the board our approach 27 February 2019 We base our appointments to the board on merit, and on objective selection criteria, with the aim of bringing a range of skills, knowledge, and experience to Rio Tinto.
This involves a formal and rigorous process to source strong candidates from diverse backgrounds and conducting appropriate background and reference checks on the shortlisted candidates.
We aim to appoint people who will help us to address the operational and strategic challenges and opportunities facing the company now and in the future, and to ensure that our board is diverse in terms of gender, nationality, social background and cognitive style.
We believe that an effective board provides a range of perspectives, combining the experience of directors who have developed a deep understanding of our business over several years with the fresh insights of newer appointees.
Our board composition should also reflect the global nature of Rio Tintos business: currently four different nationalities are represented, including significant representation from our major countries of operation.
The key skills and experience we consider most relevant to the board are set out on page 89.
Increasing female representation The Group has set measurable gender diversity objectives for the composition of senior management and graduate intake.
In 2018, gender balance increased slightly from 22.4% to 22.6% within senior management against a target of 24.4% and the graduate intake was 36% against a target of 50%.
The number of women in operations roles increased from 5% to 15%.
For the total employee population, gender balance decreased slightly from 18% to 17.7%.
As a Committee, we have reviewed and endorsed the gender diversity objectives for 2019, and we will monitor progress on the programmes and initiatives designed to achieve them.
Further information with regard to the performance against the targets setfor 2018 and on our 2019 objectives can be found on page 54.
Currently, 27% of our board members are women.
We only engage executive search firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on diversity best practice, and we require that all long lists should include suitably-qualified female candidates.
We will increase female representation on the board as vacancies arise, with a longer-term ambition for one-third of our board members to be women.
We apply a similar approach to our Executive Committee, which is currently one quarter female, and includes eight different nationalities.
The board endorses the recommendations set out in the Hampton Alexander review, an independent review body focused on increasing the number of women on FTSE350 boards.
The board supports management action to strengthen the pipeline of senior female executives within the business and to ensure that there are no obstacles to women succeeding at the highest levels within Rio Tinto.
com Governance Year in review Executive Committee succession planning Succession planning During 2018, the Committee received regular presentations from the chief The Committee, on behalf of the board, regularly assesses the balance of executive on the composition and performance of the Executive Committee.
executive and non-executive directors, and the composition of the board These updates included detailed consideration of the performance and in terms of skills, experience, diversity and capacity.
development requirements of individual members of the Committee, and areview of their direct reports and other high-potential individuals The Committee assisted in the appointment of our new executive director who could become members of the Executive Committee in due course.
and chief financial officer, following Chris Lynchs retirement in September The discussions included a review of the diversity of the senior 2018.
We engaged MWM Consulting to carry out an external search and to management pipeline.
benchmark internal candidates for the role.
MWM Consulting has no other connection to Rio Tinto.
From a shortlist of five candidates, members of the Changes to our committees Committee interviewed two, and recommended the appointment of Jakob Following the appointment of Simon Thompson as chairman in March 2018, Stausholm, former chief financial, strategy & transformation officer at the Committee agreed a number of changes in the chairs and membership A. P. Moller Maersk.
Jakob is an experienced and authoritative finance leader of the boards committees: who combines nearly ten years experience gained as chief financial officer Simon Thompson assumed the chairmanship of the Nominations of two substantial global public companies in his native Denmark, with Committee and stood down as chairman of the Remuneration 19years working in numerous finance positions around the world for Committee and as a member of the Audit Committee.
Sam Laidlaw became chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
David Constable stood down as a member of the Sustainability In anticipation of Paul Telliers retirement as a non-executive director in Committee and became a member of the Audit Committee.
May, the Committee sought to strengthen the Canadian representation Simon Henry became a member of the Sustainability Committee.
onthe board and was pleased to appoint Moya Greene, who brings senior public and private sector experience in both Canada and the UK.
Her Board re-election and board composition background and experience is set out on page 76.
Moya has joined the Directors are accountable to shareholders.
Each director is subject to Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Egon Zehnder election by shareholders at the first AGMs after their appointment International advised on this appointment.
Other than work undertaken and then is required to seek re-election at each years AGMs.
toasses the performance of senior leaders, Egon Zehnder has no other connection toRio Tinto.
In planning the composition of the non-executive part of the board, a balance must be struck between retaining a collective understanding We were also keen to strengthen the Australian representation on the of the company and its business with a progressive refresh of the boards board, following Chriss retirement, and were pleased to announce Simon composition.
The tenure of the current non-executive directors including McKeons appointment, with effect from 1 January 2019.
Simon brings the chairman is shown in the chart below: significant legal, financial and regulatory experience see page 77 and joins Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Russell Reynolds Non-executive director tenure advised on this appointment.
The firm has no other connection to Rio Tinto.
Number of directors 0-3 years 5 Ann Godbehere will retire from the board in May 2019, after nine years of service.
Sam Laidlaw will succeed Ann as senior independent director, 3-6 years 3 while Simon Henry will bring his considerable recent and relevant financial 6-9 years 1 experience to the chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
Subjectmatter Key Significant Skills and experience of the chairman and non-executive directors expert strength experience Total Business leadership Sustainable success in business at a senior executive level.
3 4 7 Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects involving large-scale long-cycle capital outlays.
1 2 3 6 Financial Proficiency in financial accounting and reporting, corporate finance and internal controls, 2 4 6 corporate funding, and associated risks.
Mergers & acquisitions Experience in corporate transactions and actions and joint ventures.
4 4 Global experience Experience in multiple global locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and 7 1 8 business environments.
Corporate governance Experience with a major organisation that demonstrates rigorous governance standards.
4 4 8 Government and Interaction with government and regulators and involvement in public policy decisions.
1 1 1 3 International relations HSSE ESG Familiarity with issues associated with workplace health and safety, asset integrity, 4 1 5 environment and social responsibility, and communities.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing, and the development of product and or customer 2 2 management strategies.
Mining Senior executive experience in a large, global mining organisation involved in the discovery, 2 1 3 acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
HR Remuneration Understanding the link between strategy, performance and remuneration outcomes.
1 5 6 Technology Digital A strong understanding of technology and innovation, and the development and 1 1 2 implementation of initiatives to enhance production.
Nominations Committee report Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
