Report of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee Letter from Howard Davies Board and Committee membership is based on the principles of fairness, respect Chairman of the Group Nominations and Both Spencer Stuart and Hay Korn Ferry have and inclusion, that all nominations and Governance Committee been engaged during the year to support the appointments are made on the basis of Dear Shareholder, search for new executive and non-executive individual competence, skills and expertise As Chairman of the Board and Chairman of directors.
Spencer Stuart and Hay Korn Ferry measured against identified objective criteria the Group Nominations and Governance are also members of the retained executive and that searches for Board candidates are Committee I am pleased to present our report search panel of suppliers managed by RBS conducted with due regard to the benefits of on the Committee's activity during 2018.
Executive Search and provide leadership diversity and inclusion.
advisory and senior executive search and Role and responsibilities The Boardroom Inclusion Policy contains a assessment services to the Human The Committee is responsible for reviewing number of measurable objectives, targets and Resources function within RBS.
During 2018, the structure, size and composition of the ambitions reflecting the ongoing commitment the Committee considered a number of Board, and membership and chairmanship of of the Board to inclusion progress.
In June 2018, Patrick Board Committees and recommends aims to meet the highest industry standards Flynn was appointed to the Board as a nonappointments to the Board.
In addition, the and recommendations wherever possible.
executive director and at the same time was Committee monitors the Groups governance That includes, but is not limited to, aspiring to appointed to the Boards Risk, Audit and arrangements to ensure that best corporate meet the targets set by the HamptonTechnology and Innovation Committees.
The governance standards and practices are Alexander Report: FTSE100 Women Leaders Committee also oversaw the search for a upheld and considers developments relating 33% female representation on the boards successor to Ewen Stevenson who stepped to banking reform and analogous issues and the Parker Report: Beyond 1 by 21 at down from the Board on 30 September 2018. affecting the Group.
The Committee makes least one director from an ethnic minority On 1 January 2019, Katie Murray joined the recommendations to the Board in respect of background on the boards by 2020 2021.
Board as executive director and Chief any consequential amendments to the The policy supports our bank-wide ambition to Financial Officer.
aim for a 50 50 gender balance across all Tenure of non-executive directors levels of the organisation by 2030.
The terms of reference of the Committee are The tenure of non-executive directors as at 31 reviewed annually, approved by the Board Monitoring and reporting December 2018 is set out below.
The Boards performance against these Principal activity during 2018 0 3 years 42% targets varied throughout 2018 as the Group As highlighted in the Boards 2017 3 6 years 33% made a number of changes to its board effectiveness review, the Committee 6 years 25% governance structure in order to comply with acknowledges the tenure of a number of 100% ring-fencing legislation.
These changes current Board directors and therefore made included a number of appointments to the Performance evaluation succession planning a priority in 2018.
Ringboard of NatWest Holdings Limited, the The 2018 review of the effectiveness of the fencing also gave rise to a requirement to holding company of the ring-fenced subBoard and its senior Committees was recruit additional non-executive directors to group.
The boards of RBSG and NatWest facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation, a the boards of our material regulated Holdings Limited meet consecutively and specialist board evaluation consultancy.
The subsidiaries, which the Committee has share a largely common membership.
When Committee has considered and discussed the overseen.
considered together, the director population outcomes of the evaluation and accepts the across both boards currently meets the Parker findings.
Overall the review concluded that the In addition to recruitment, the Committee has target and exceeds the Hampton-Alexander Committee operated effectively with no overseen the process to reach agreement target with a female representation of 39%.
material recommendations being identified for with the PRA in respect of a governance action.
The Committee will continue to ensure model that is compatible with ring-fencing Notwithstanding the largely common that the full Board is appropriately sighted on legislation.
The Committee has also spent membership between the two boards, RBS the work of the Committee time considering the Groups arrangements in remains committed to ensuring that the RBSG respect of legal entity governance.
This has The outcomes of the evaluation have been board meets the targets on a standalone included overseeing work aimed at continuing reported to the Board and the Committee will basis.
Following Katie Murrays appointment to enhance the Groups subsidiary track progress during the year.
on 1 January 2019, the RBSG board governance framework.
As part of this work, composition currently includes 31% female Boardroom Inclusion Policy the Group has proposed the appointment of representation, rising from 25% at 31 The Board operates a Boardroom Inclusion individuals to act as its representative on the December 2018.
The RBSG board also Policy which reflects the most recent industry boards of a number of material regulated remains committed to meeting the Parker targets and is aligned to the RBS Inclusion subsidiaries.
The aim of these appointments Target by 2020 2021.
Policy and Principles applying to the wider is to strengthen oversight and enhance bank.
This policy provides a framework to Inclusion and diversity progress, including communication between the subsidiary ensure that the Board attracts, motivates and information about the appointment process, boards and the Group.
retains the best talent and avoids limiting will continue to be reported in the Group Membership and meetings potential caused by bias, prejudice or Nominations and Governance Committees Penny Hughes stepped down from the discrimination.
The policy currently applies to report in the RBS Annual Report.
The balance Committee with effect from 30 May 2018, the most senior RBS boards: The Royal Bank of skills, experience, independence, meaning that for most of 2018 the Committee of Scotland Group plc RBSG, NatWest knowledge and diversity on the Board, and comprised the Chairman of the Board and Holdings Limited, The Royal Bank of Scotland how the Board operates together as a unit is four independent non-executive directors.
plc, National Westminster Bank Plc and Ulster reviewed annually as part of the Board Graham Beale also attends meetings of the Bank Limited.
A copy of the Boardroom evaluation.
Where appropriate, findings from Committee in an observer capacity, following Inclusion Policy is available on rbs.
com about the evaluation will be considered in the his appointment as Senior Independent us.
search, nomination and appointment process.
Director of NatWest Holdings Limited.
Objectives and targets Further details on RBSs approach to diversity The Committee holds at least four scheduled The Boardroom Inclusion Policys objectives can be found on pages 16 and 86. meetings per year and also meets on an ad ensure that the Board, and any Committee to hoc basis as required.
In 2018, there were ten which it delegates nominations meetings.
Individual attendance by directors responsibilities, follows an inclusive process Howard Davies at these meetings is shown in the table on when making nomination decisions.
That Chairman of the Group Nominations and page 50. includes ensuring that the nomination process Governance Committee 14 February 2019 53
