NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT During the year, the Nomination Committee was responsible for: Leading the process for Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board.
Ensuring succession planning is in place for appointments to the Board and senior management.
Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, including its balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and experience and making recommendations as appropriate.
Making recommendations concerning the membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in consultation with the Chairs of those Committees.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee were reviewed in October 2018 following the publication of the updated Code.
A copy of the updated Nomination Committee terms of reference is available on the Rotork website at www.
com en i nvestors i n dex com m ittees.
1 Committee members Kevin Hostetler joined the Nomination Committee on Martin Lamb 1 March 2018 and Ann Christin Andersen and Tim Cobbold joined Lucinda Bell on 1 December 2018.
A majority of the Nomination Committee Gary Bullard members are independent non-executive directors.
Biographies Sally James of each member of the Nomination Committee are set out on Peter Dilnot pages 52 to 53.
Ann Christin Andersen Tim Cobbold Activities of the Nomination Committee during the year Kevin Hostetler There were two formal Nomination Committee meetings during the year.
A summary of activities is set out opposite.
1 As at 31 December 2018 The principal activity of the Nomination Committee during the Dates of Nomination Committee meetings year concerned the successful search for two new non-executive Directors to join the Board.
JAN FEB MAR Board appointments As Gary Bullard will have been in office for nine years in June 2019, the Nomination Committee began a search process for a non-executive director who would have the requisite experience APR MAY JUN on a remuneration committee in order to perform the role of Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
They also considered that there would be benefit in appointing an additional non-executive director to further enhance the capacity of the Board and provide a broader skills and experience base.
JUL AUG SEP The Nomination Committee therefore appointed Egon Zehnder as external search consultants with which the Company has no other connection to assist with this process of recruiting two new non-executive directors.
In formulating the candidate profiles for OCT NOV DEC the appointments, in addition to the requirement for a candidate with a least a year's experience on a remuneration committee, the Nomination Committee also had particular regard to the need for candidates with a growth mindset, a background in international industry and previous Board experience.
They also looked for a diverse gender and ethnic list of potential candidates and a candidate with strong background in information technology.
The Nomination Committee received a long list of potential candidates from Egon Zehnder.
Following review and discussion, prioritised candidates were identified for interview.
The shortlisted candidates were interviewed by Martin Lamb and Sally James.
The Nomination Committee were unanimous in their recommendation of the appointment of Ann Christin Andersen and Tim Cobbold to the Board for approval.
64 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Succession planning As reported on page 54, the Board has formally adopted a new Succession planning for the Board is continuous and the diversity plan for the Group with clear actions and supporting Nomination Committee considered during the year the need to key performance indicators.
Kevin Hostetler and I have also maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the joined the 30% Club as a public and personal commitment of Company and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing our support for increasing the number of women at senior levels of the Board.
Board evaluation Last year we committed to only using external search consultants In 2018, the Board performed an internal review of its where such consultants are engaged to make an appointment effectiveness via a board effectiveness questionnaire facilitated by which have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for the Company Secretary.
Further details on the results of this review Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice.
and any resulting actions can be found at page 58.
The review Egon Zehnder, who were engaged in the search for two new included an assessment of the effectiveness of the Committee non-executive directors, fulfilled this criteria.
including how it discharged its responsibilities.
Details of the percentage of women on the Board, in senior Diversity plan leadership positions and within the Group can be found on page 41.
The Board seeks to attain a diverse mix of skills, experience, knowledge and background.
In considering diversity, gender will play an important role but the Board will take account of ethnicity, Martin Lamb nationality, background, profession and personality.
Chair of the Nomination Committee 4 March 2019 Appointment process Recommended Tim Cobbold and Ann Christin Andersen for appointment as non-executive directors and members C of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
procetsent ' Succession planning Discussed Board composition and succession planning, including consideration of balance of skills and experience and diversity.
Activity Other work 2018 Considered the requirements of the new Corporate Governance Code 2018 and its impact on the work.. of the Committee.
"z l Reviewed the Nomination Committee's effectiveness z and terms of reference. """
Approved the Nomination Committee's schedule of work for 2019.
