Report of the Group Board Risk Committee Letter from Baroness Noakes RBS, in common with other large banks, was Other key areas of focus in 2018 included: Chairman of the Group Board Risk required to deliver both ring-fencing and key risk profile and reporting, stress testing, risk Committee parts of its resolution plans by the beginning appetite, and recovery and resolution.
The ring-fencing programme was a detail on each of these key topics is provided I am pleased to present my report setting out key focus for the Committee throughout the on the pages that follow.
Brexit risks, while how the Group Board Risk Committee the year and detailed progress reports were considered by the BRC from time to time, Committee or BRC discharged its scrutinised at each meeting.
were largely discussed at Board level given responsibilities in 2018. the potential strategic impact.
After the successful legal restructuring of the The BRC has responsibility for overseeing the RBS Group on 30 April 2018, RBS began to Now that the majority of legacy issues have management of risks that could impact RBSs operate under a transitional governance been addressed and ring-fencing delivered, businesses and operations.
The Committee structure and BRC continued to oversee the RBS is increasingly looking to the future and I also monitors risk profile, risk appetite and the subsequent stages of the ring-fencing anticipate that BRC will spend progressively promotion of a culture of risk awareness implementation work more time overseeing aspects of innovation within the organisation.
Operational resilience, cyber responsibilities are set out in more detail in its security and a satisfactory control RBSs risk profile terms of reference which are reviewed environment are, however, key to ensuring annually by the Committee and are available that RBS can continue to provide excellent improved materially in 2018 on RBSs website: rbs.
service to its customers and these areas will be monitored closely by the BRC in the year RBSs risk profile improved materially in 2018, A large part of the Group BRCs work is the ahead.
with progress made in relation to pensions, review of reports and regulatory submissions the settlement of the US Department of on behalf of the Board and recommending Justices investigation into Residential them for approval.
Where this is the case, the Mortgage Backed Securities and, ring-fencing Report below is annotated with an asterix.
Chairman of the Group Board Risk Committee 14 February 2019 Meetings and visits Membership All members attended the nine scheduled Performance Evaluation The Board Risk Committee is comprised of meetings held in 2018 during the period in The annual review of the effectiveness of the five independent non-executive directors.
The which they were Committee members.
In Board and its senior Committees, including details of the members and their skills and addition, six ad hoc meetings were arranged the Board Risk Committee, was conducted experience are set out on pages 47 and 48. to consider: Banks Executive Committee externally in 2018 by independent Board Brendan Nelson is chairman of the Group ExCo risk and conduct performance, ExCo Evaluation.
Overall the review concluded that Audit Committee of which Baroness Noakes risk & control objectives, risk and conduct the BRC continued to operate effectively.
The and Morten Friis are also members.
management performance of Franchises and Committee was described as very capable Robert Gillespie is chairman of the Group Functions, the year-end remuneration with robust, well-established processes.
The Performance and Remuneration Committee.
process, the results of various phases of review also made a number of This common membership across internal and external stress tests: and the recommendations including reducing the Committees helps to ensure effective capital plans required for the Ring-fencing length of meetings and level of detail governance across the committees.
considered by the Committee and transitioning to a more strategic mode over Regular attendees at meetings include: the In 2018, members of the Committee time.
The Committee has considered and RBS Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief undertook a programme of visits across discussed the outcomes of this evaluation and Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief various locations in conjunction with members accepts the findings.
Legal Officer and General Counsel, Chief of the Group Audit Committee, including a Audit Executive, and the External Auditor.
The purpose and scope of this The outcomes of the evaluation have been External advice is sought by the Committee programme is discussed in detail in the reported to the Board and the Committee will where appropriate.
Report of the Group Audit Committee on track progress on the recommendations pages 54 to 56. during 2019.
The Committee also held an in-depth session on risk reporting and held a teach-in on capital and liquidity.
57 Report of the Group Board Risk Committee Key matters considered by the Committee in 2018 Matter Context of discussion How the Committee addressed the matter Risk profile A proportion of every Risk Management Reports Top and emerging risks were presented in quarterly Risk and reporting BRC meeting was Management Reports, supplemented by shorter reports from the Chief Risk Officer at intervening spent reviewing risk meetings.
Key topics discussed included the macro-economic and UK credit environments, cyber reports, assessing security and the implications for RBS of Brexit, geopolitical tensions and trade issues.
Reports on the most material risk legal and regulatory developments, including RBSs General Data Protection Regulation exposures relative to compliance programme and significant litigation risks were also frequently considered.
strategy and risk Updates from Management and Subsidiary Risk Committees Updates were received from the appetite and Executive Risk Committee and Technical Executive Risk Forum before it was disbanded in June scrutinising 2018, as the BRC relies on the effective executive oversight of risk.
In addition, quarterly reports managements were received from the chairmen of the risk committees of the franchises and material regulated recommendations to subsidiaries.
monitor and control Emerging Risks Emerging risks likely to impact RBS over the next decade were considered at such exposures.
each meeting and in more detail mid-year.
The Committee noted three key areas of change: new technology, competitive challenge and the geopolitical landscape.
Structural The BRC oversaw Ring-fencing Operational Continuity in Resolution OCiR BRC considered the key execution reform the delivery of the risks of the ring-fencing programme and oversaw the preparations for the successful including ringseparation of RBSs implementation of the two ring-fencing transfer schemes which were implemented during the fencing core banking year.
Regular updates were received from management on progress against plan and on their implementation business from level of confidence in relation to RBSs readiness for operating in a ring-fencing compliant state activities that are by 1 January 2019.
Plans supporting the provision of Board attestations to the PRA in relation to required to be outside ring-fencing and OCiR compliance were also reviewed.
Separate joint sessions with the Group the ring-fence which Audit Committee were held to monitor plans for operational readiness in the risk, finance and involved many treasury functions, including the development of legal entity specific management information.
Assurance - The outputs of integrated assurance work undertaken by Risk, Internal Audit and BRC also monitors KPMG appointed to provide independent assurance on defined aspects of ring-fencing the development of implementation were received by the Committee.
plans which would Recovery and Resolution BRC continued to monitor the other elements of Resolution Planning allow RBS to be dealt outside of OCiR in light of intensifying regulatory requirements.
The Committee noted improved with effectively in the engagement across RBS and from regulators during the period and monitored progress on event of financial Minimum Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL.
Solvent Wind Down report for NatWest Markets separately and the Committee reviewed the draft 2018 Recovery plan before submission to the regulator.
Stress testing BRC devoted ICAAPs and Budget Stress Tests - In Q1, the BRC considered the results of the 2017 ICAAPs considerable time to and ILAAs and the Reverse Stress tests for the RBS Group, NWH Ltd and NWM Plc, in addition stress testing to feedback from the Bank of England in relation to its 2017 stress test.
The scope of the stress including the testing scenarios and legal entity analysis for RBSs 2018 Budget stress test and 2018 ICAAP European Banking and the actions being undertaken to fide-risk these deliverables were considered in Q3.
Authority EBA and Bank of England and EBA Stress Test During the year the Committee provided challenge and Bank of England scrutiny in relation to the scenarios and traded risk factor expansions before considering the key stress tests in assumptions and judgements deployed by management in the Bank of England and EBA stress addition to its own tests.
A detailed review of the outputs of the tests was carried out prior to submission to the internal stress tests.
BRC subjected the outputs of the tests to a high degree of scrutiny and challenge.
58 Report of the Group Board Risk Committee How the Committee addressed the matter Matter Context of discussion Risk appetite Risk appetite Frameworks - BRC reviewed the overarching Risk Management Framework: the Risk Appetite continued to be a key Framework: the Risk Appetite Governance Framework and discussed how the frameworks would focus of the relate to legal entities after ring-fencing.
Proposed risk appetite statements for strategic risks for Committee, in the Groups main subsidiaries and franchises were also appraised by the Committee.
particular the way in Board Risk Measures BRMs and Material Risk Appetite The Committee scrutinised a review of which the frameworks the qualitative statements of appetite for material risks and material high level measures, and risk appetite challenging the rationale for some of the proposed measures.
The Committee also reviewed statements would escalated breaches of risk appetite and the action taken by management in response.
Control A number of Transformation - The execution risks of the bank-wide transformation programme and impact on environment programmes the control environment were kept under review at regular intervals throughout the year, including impacting RBSs specific updates on Open Banking and the project to build a new digital bank.
BRC also control environment considered a 2020 refresh of the transformation portfolio and requested that risk metrics be were ongoing in refreshed and recalibrated.
BRC Control Environment Certification - Bi-annual reports on the control environment ratings of the maintained oversight franchises and functions were reviewed by the Committee.
Where significant control weaknesses of these programmes were identified BRC sought managements assurance that measures were in place to ensure that and of existing the businesses could continue to operate safely.
BRC also monitored the programme to remediate internal controls for customer due diligence as well as plans to build robust processes for the future on a quarterly the management of basis.
Risk Culture An assessment of risk culture was considered, including managements plans to increase the intensity of executive review.
Bank-wide BRC received regular Operational resilience and Cyber Security BRC requested updates on information and cyber risks updates on key risks security.
BRC also considered data management and the potential risks inherent in distributed to RBS and ledger technology, Cloud computing and Artificial Intelligence.
monitored the Credit and Market risk - Updates were received in relation to upcoming non-traded market risk safeguards in place regulations: trading book settlement risk: and the most material decisions of the Executive Credit to minimise the Group.
BRC also requested a review of the UK Retail sector.
impact of such risks Pension risk - Following agreement being reached with RBSs pension trustees, the Committee and ensure continuity received an update on pension risk appetite and measurement.
Separately, a review of the of service to pension risk of RBSs large corporate portfolio was undertaken and reported to the Committee.
Model risk management The work to strengthen and validate models, including those used in stress testing, and improve supporting governance was a continuing focus.
Conduct and compliance risk The BRC received updates on the development of the RBS Group Compliance and Conduct Risk Framework.
Financial crime The annual Group Money Laundering Reporting Officers Report was reviewed by the Committee and the Committee received an overview of RBSs approach to crypto-assets.
The BRC also kept under review the plans to improve and remediate customer due diligence.
Capital and Liquidity These are important areas for risk management and regulatory requirements are intensifying.
In addition to reviewing the Group, NWH Ltd and NWM Plc ICAAPs and ILAAPs in Q1, BRC held focused sessions on RBSs approach to liquidity and funding management and on capital.
These sessions focused in particular on the capital requirements of the Group and its material subsidiaries.
Data Management and GDPR Updates were received on the work undertaken to address the risks related to data management and to deliver compliance with GDPR.
LIBOR Programme BRC reviewed the risks associated with the transition of LIBOR and other IBOR rates to alternative risk free rates and a submission to regulators setting out the preparations and actions being taken under the programme.
Accountability BRC continued to Accountability The BRC regularly considered accountability recommendations in respect of and provide oversight significant material events, on-going investigations and high earners.
The risk and control remuneration over the risk objectives of members and attendees of RBSs Executive Committee were also reviewed, with dimension of additional focus on underlying objectives for the Chief Risk Officer.
performance and Remuneration The BRC reviewed the performance conditions for RBSs Long-Term Incentive remuneration Plans and assessment of proposed vesting levels to ensure risk management and conduct arrangements, performance was fairly reflected in vesting outcomes.
The BRC also made recommendations to working closely with the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee on reflecting risk performance in the bonus the Performance and calculation.
Further detail on how risk is taken into account in remuneration decisions can be found Remuneration in the Report of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee on pages 62 to 78.
