Royal Mail plc | Responsibilities of the Board Responsibilities of the Board Directors participate in a comprehensive Conflicts of interest Board leadership and tailored induction programme following The Companies Act 2006 and the Articles The Board appointment to the Board.
The Chairman and require the Board to consider any potential The Board is responsible for the stewardship the Company Secretary are responsible for conflicts of interest.
The Board considers of the Company and overseeing its conduct the induction.
See page 67, which outlines the conflicts during the financial year and, and affairs to create sustainable value Rita Griffin's induction.
if appropriate, authorises each Directors for the benefit of its stakeholders.
The reported actual and potential conflicts of Ongoing training is also provided to the Board is committed to ensuring that it interest regularly.
The conflicts of interest Board.
Additional training is available on provides effective leadership and promotes register was reviewed several times during request, where appropriate.
The Board is uncompromising ethical standards, setting the year by the Board.
also kept up to date with legal, regulatory the tone for the Company.
and governance matters by the Company It concluded that where Directors' conflicts The Board members all have the knowledge, Secretary at each Board meeting.
were appropriately authorised, the process talent and experience to perform the duties for authorisation was operating effectively.
required of a Director of the business.
At the Board terms of appointment Each Director abstains from approving their end of the year, the Board comprised the Copies of the Directors service contracts own reported potential conflicts.
The Board Chairman, two Executive Directors and six and letters of appointment are available operates a policy to identify and, where Non-Executive Directors.
The Board reviews for inspection at the Companys registered appropriate, manage potential conflicts of the independence of its Non-Executive office during normal office hours and by the interest for Directors.
The Board will continue Directors as part of its Annual Board shareholders at each AGM.
to monitor the status of each conflict.
It considers that each of review potential conflicts of interest and take the Non-Executive Directors is independent.
Time commitments action to mitigate them as necessary.
This means that, in the view of the Board, The terms of appointment for the Nonthey have no links to the Executive Directors Executive Directors require them to devote a Related parties internal controls are in and other managers and no business or other minimum of two days a month to working for place to ensure Directors advise the Board relationship with the Company that could the Company.
In practice, they tend to devote of any related party transactions involving impact their judgement.
Full biographies of considerably more time than this, supporting themselves or their connected persons and each of the Directors are on pages 58-60. projects where their areas of expertise can that these are conducted on an arms length drive specific initiatives.
Directors have an ongoing obligation to Board meetings advise of any changes that would be reviewed The Non-Executive Directors were required to The Board holds regular scheduled meetings and monitored by the Board.
As at 25 March declare any of their other significant outside throughout the year.
It met eight times during 2018, no Director had advised the Board commitments prior to their appointment.
See the table for Board attendance of any related party transactions.
Note 26 Any new external appointments which may on page 61. on page 144 sets out the Groups related impact existing time commitments are party transactions.
During the year, the Non-Executive considered by the Chairman and agreed by Directors and the Chairman met on six the Board.
Board Committees and occasions without the Executive Directors External appointments being present.
These meetings are an governance structure Peter Longs directorships see biography important way to develop the working The Board has delegated authority to its on page 58 qualify as his other significant relationships between the Non-Executive Committees to carry out certain tasks.
This is commitments for the purposes of the Directors and to assess the performance defined in each Committees respective terms Companies Act 2006.
These were discussed of senior management.
In addition, the of reference available at royalmailgroup.
com upon his appointment to the Board and Senior Independent Director met with The Committees established by the Board during this financial year.
The Board has the Non-Executive Directors to assess are shown on page 57.
The minutes of each considered the time commitment required the Chairmans performance without the Committee meeting are made available to of the Chairmans role.
It believes that Peter Chairman being present.
In addition, each Long continues to lead and support the Board individual Committees Chair reports to the and that he clearly provides the appropriate Information and support Board on matters discussed at Committee time commitment required.
The Board The Board receives business and financial meetings and highlights any significant considers that there is no impact on his role performance reports at each Board meeting issues that require the Boards attention.
or performance as Chairman as a result of and reports on health and safety, regulation, his external directorships.
The Other committees Directors receive regular updates and TopCo Committee The Board believes that there are significant training on matters such as developments The TopCo Committee provides overall benefits to both the Group and the in corporate governance and compliance support to the Chief Executive Officer in individual when Executive Directors accept policies.
The Company Secretary is discharging her responsibilities both for Non-Executive Directorships from companies responsible for ensuring the timely provision managing the business and of accountability outside the Group.
During the year, Moya of information to the Directors.
The Committee also oversees Greene was appointed as a Non-Executive the Directors also have access to an online performance management and outlook Director of EasyJet plc.
It was announced on Directors Reference Manual to support them for the business, achievement of KPIs and 15 February 2018 that Moya Greene will be in the performance of their duties.
the Corporate Balanced Scorecard, the appointed as a Non-Executive of Rio Tinto plc Companys compliance with the Market in the second half of 2018.
The date has now Abuse Regulations, disclosures and any other been confirmed as 17 September 2018.
56 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information significant business issues.
The Committee financial and operating performance, annual Risk Management Committee normally meets monthly and on an ad hoc and strategic plans, external stakeholders, The Risk Management Committee is a basis as necessary.
It is chaired by the Chief industrial relations and health and safety committee of the CEC with a reporting line Executive Officer.
The Committee also develops and to, and which supports, the Audit and Risk monitors deployment of the Groups strategy, Committee.
It meets to promote and support Chief Executives Committee annual operating plans and budgets for Board the establishment, communication and The Chief Executives Committee CEC approval.
It is embedding of risk management throughout supports the Chief Executive Officer on chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee meets quarterly matters concerning the Groups overall and is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
framework, including risk management, The Board and its Committees The Board Responsible for the long-term success of the Group, the Board sets the tone in building company culture.
It has oversight and accountability for the wider stakeholders, it sets the objectives and strategy and monitors performance and risk management.
It approves major contracts, investments, internal controls and key policies.
Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Pensions Committee Remuneration Reviews the balance and Reviews and recommends for Reviews the performance of the Committee composition of the Board and approval by the Board all financial Royal Mail pension schemes.
Determines, and recommends its Committees in relation to the statements and associated It does so alongside policy and for the Boards approval, the diversity of skills, knowledge, disclosures.
Continuously strategy considerations and framework for the remuneration independence and experience.
satisfies itself that internal investment matters because of of the Group's senior executives.
Ensures a progressive renewal controls and risk management the significance of the Groups This includes individual of Board membership through processes work effectively.
pension plans to its financial remuneration arrangements orderly succession planning.
for the Chairman, the Executive Considers talent reviews and Directors and the Company succession planning for senior Secretary.
Agrees targets for any executives.
Board roles Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Responsible for the leadership and management Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and Responsible for contributing sound judgement and of the Board and for promoting high serves as a trusted intermediary for the other objectivity to the Boards deliberations and overall ethical standards.
Ensures an effective and Directors.
Leads the annual appraisal of the decision-making process, providing constructive complementary Board, including the appropriate Chairmans performance.
Available to meet with challenge and monitoring the Executive Directors contribution and sufficient challenge from the shareholders should they have issues or concerns.
delivery of the strategy within the Boards risk Directors.
Ensures the Board determines the and governance structure.
Satisfying themselves nature and extent of the significant risks that the of the integrity of financial information and of Company is willing to embrace in implementing the effectiveness of financial controls and risk its strategy.
With support from the Company management systems is another key role.
Secretary, promotes the highest standards Determine the appropriate level of remuneration in corporate governance.
Maintains effective for Executive Directors.
communications with shareholders and makes the Directors aware of their views.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer Company Secretary Responsible for the executive leadership and Responsible for providing strategic financial Advises the Board members, particularly in day-to-day management of the Company, to leadership of the Company and the day-to-day relation to corporate governance practices, ensure the delivery of the strategy as agreed by management of the finance function.
Develops induction training and development.
Ensures that the Board and in accordance with the Groups and monitors the control systems designed to Board procedures are complied with, applicable risk appetite and business plan.
Promotes the preserve Company assets and report accurate rules followed and that good information Companys culture and standards.
flows exist to the Board and its Committees.
Communicates with shareholders as appropriate and ensures due regard is paid to their interests.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is available and fully documented at www.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 57
