Report of the Technology and Innovation Committee Letter from Alison Davis I am confident that the mix of relevant skills, Given the focus of the Committee, it is Chairman of the Technology and knowledge and commercial experience important that it spends time considering Innovation Committee contributed by the Committees members has external perspectives to ensure that it keeps greatly enhanced the quality of our abreast of emerging technology and discussions.
innovation trends and can identify key threats In this digital era, technology resulting from new business models, and innovation is fundamental The Committee is supported by management technologies, processes, products and to the banks strategy and and the Chief Executive, Chief Administrative concepts.
During the year, the Committee customers Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial invited a number of speakers to meetings to Officer, CEO Special Projects, Director of provide an external perspective and insight.
Dear Shareholder, Innovation and Director of Strategy and I am pleased to present the first report of the Corporate Development are all standing Performance evaluation Technology and Innovation Committee the attendees.
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee or TIC.
Board and its Committees, including the TIC, The Committee held six meetings during was conducted externally in 2018.
Overall, the Role and responsibilities 2018.
Details of meeting attendance can be review concluded that the Committee TIC was established in September 2017 in found at page 50 of the Governance Report.
It included observations order to support the Board in overseeing and regarding the remit of the Committee and the monitoring RBSs strategic direction in relation Principal activity during 2018 focus of the agenda which will be taken into to technology and innovation.
Technology and We know that the nature of banking services account in 2019.
The outcomes of the innovation is transforming banking and it was and the way they are provided is changing evaluation have been reported to the Board.
agreed that a Board Committee should be and the Committee agendas are therefore established to allow the Board to dedicate focused across three key themes: Conclusion sufficient time to this area of critical I am delighted to chair the TIC, which importance to our strategy and our customers.
supports the Board in an area so crucial to the Digitising the core the Committee future of the organisation.
RBS needs to considered how the Group is using new Authority is delegated to TIC by the Board and remain relevant to customers in a changing technology to improve the core business, a regular report of the Committees activities world and the Committee will continue to including how it enhances the customer is provided to the Board.
The terms of support the Board in considering how we can value proposition and reduces the cost reference are available on rbs.
com and these use technology and innovation to advance the base.
Each of the franchises and functions are reviewed annually and approved by the bank for our customers and shareholders.
I were invited to present an update on steps Group Board.
want to take the opportunity to thank the being taken to digitise their area.
The Committee members and attendees for their Committee has also considered data Board Committee structures were reviewed in contribution, enthusiasm and support in 2018. strategy: GDPR: cyber security: preparation for ring-fencing and the TIC has technology modernisation: and the core remained a Group-level Committee, given the infrastructure under this theme.
strategic nature of its remit.
New revenue streams the Committee considered new initiatives that could Membership and meetings generate revenue streams, challenge I have chaired the Committee since it was Alison Davis disruption and deliver innovative digital established, at which time, Frank Dangeard Chairman of the Technology and Innovation propositions for customers.
and Yasmin Jetha became the first members.
Committee Innovation strategy, culture and capability 14 February 2019 the Committee discussed how In June 2018, following review of the managements consideration of the future Committees membership in preparation for innovation strategy, culture and capability ring-fencing, Patrick Flynn and Lena Wilson of the organisation is developing.
Open were appointed as members of the Banking, the innovation budget and Committee.
Frank Dangeard continued as a quantum computing were also discussed.
member while Yasmin Jetha stood down and became a standing attendee following her appointment as a Double Independent Nonexecutive Director.
