AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31 December 2018.
This year the key areas of focus for the Audit Committee, in addition to its usual schedule of work, have been: Receiving reports from Internal Audit on Rotork's control framework and recommendations for upgrading it.
Identifying a successor audit partner to Nigel Thomas at Deloitte and supporting the transition to the new audit partner.
Strengthening the connection between internal audit work and the controls relied on to mitigate principal risks.
Committee composition and governance All Audit Committee members are independent non-executive directors.
On 1 December 2018, Ann Christin Andersen and Tim Cobbold joined the Audit Committee, further strengthening it.
As mentioned on pages 55, Gary Bullard will not seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2019 and will therefore step down as a member of this Committee from that date.
1 Committee members Lucinda Bell I hold professional accounting qualifications and am deemed to Sally James have recent and relevant financial experience.
Tim Cobbold also Gary Bullard holds professional accounting qualifications.
Biographies of each Peter Dilnot member of the Audit Committee can be found on pages 52 to 53.
Ann Christin Andersen Tim Cobbold The Audit Committee operates under formal terms of reference which are reviewed annually and were last updated in December 1 As at 31 December 2018 2018.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Rotork website at www.
com en investors index committees.
Dates of Audit Committee meetings The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to review and report to the Board on the: JAN FEB MAR Integrity of financial reporting.
Application of significant accounting policies and judgements.
Internal audit programme, its remit, resourcing and effectiveness.
Adequacy and effectiveness of the Company's internal controls APR MAY JUN and risk management systems.
Appointment, independence and remuneration of the external auditor.
Effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Audit Committee maintains an annual schedule of work which JUL AUG SEP is kept under review and forms the basis of its principal meetings throughout the year.
The annual schedule is supplemented by consideration of specific issues as and when they arise.
The Audit Committee met six times during the year.
There were OCT NOV DEC four main Audit Committee meetings and two other meetings to approve the trading statements in April and November.
Details of attendance are set out on page 57.
Meetings of the Audit Committee are arranged to co-ordinate with the Group's financial reporting timetable to ensure appropriate scrutiny by the Audit Committee of such announcements, including review of year end and interim financial reports, in addition to other trading updates made during the year.
The Chief Executive, Chairman, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Risk and Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditor including the principal audit partner also regularly attend meetings by invitation.
As Chair of the Committee, I additionally hold regular meetings with the Finance Director and other members of the management team.
These meetings provide me with a better understanding of key issues, and identify those matters which require meaningful discussion at Audit Committee meetings.
I also meet with the Head of Risk and Internal Audit and the external audit partner to discuss any matters of concern that they may have.
60 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 During the year, the Audit Committee received reports from Upon request of the Board, advising the Board on whether management, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit and the external the Annual Report & Accounts are fair, balanced and auditors.
These reports have allowed the Audit Committee to understandable and provide the information necessary for scrutinise and ask questions where further clarification or discussion shareholders to assess the Company's performance as a was required.
Further details of the work undertaken by the Audit whole.
Committee during 2018 is set out opposite.
To assist the Audit Committee, the Finance Director and the Financial reporting Group Financial Controller present a detailed report outlining A key role of the Audit Committee in relation to financial reporting significant matters on the half year and year end financial is to review the quality and appropriateness of the half year and statements and the external auditor presents a report on the year end financial statements with a particular focus on: work they have undertaken.
They also present on the scope for Accounting policies and practices.
the next full year audit for consideration by the Audit Committee.
The clarity of disclosures and compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards, UK company law and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or where there has been discussion with the external auditor.
Internal controls and risk management Reviewed internal controls and risk management, including consideration of processes and procedures for risk management and the effectiveness of the internal controls framework.
Reviewed significant internal control reports, findings and management responses.
Reviewed internal audit programme, its remit, resourcing and effectiveness.
Received reports on the implementation of process improvements recommended for action following internal audit reviews.
Reviewed anti-bribery and corruption procedures and the recommendations for further work in 2019.
External audit Considered and reported to the Board on the external auditor's independence, objectivity and effectiveness including the annual audit...
Reviewed the external auditor's representation letter, views on z the control environment and fraud risk management.
"l z Meetings with the external auditor without management "" present."
Reviewed non-audit services undertaken by the external E auditor and the policy on non-audit work.
m Considered audit fees, engagement terms and risk of external z.... auditor leaving the market.
V, Considered appointment of the external auditor.
Financial reporting Internal audit Reviewed the Annual Report & Accounts including whether Considered resourcing required for Risk and Internal Audit they are fair, balanced and understandable, the Corporate team, including the appointment of a new in-house Risk and Governance Report and draft results announcements.
Internal Audit Manager to work alongside the PwC team.
Reviewed the material judgements and estimates, going Reviewed internal audit programme, its remit, resourcing and concern assumption and viability statement in the Annual effectiveness.
"Meetings with the Head of Risk and Internal Audit without 0 "" :::: management present."
Reviewed the half year accounts including material judgements, estimates and draft half year results z - announcement.
"Other work z Reviewed the external auditor's report on the year end 0 Considered accounting and corporate governance accounts and the proposed full year external audit scope, key ""' :::: developments including the changes under the 2018 risks, materiality and year end issues."
Reviewed April and November trading updates.
6 z Reviewed Audit Committee effectiveness and terms of Reviewed and approved response to FRC letter on certain reference.
aspects of Annual Report & Accounts 2017.
Reviewed updated whistleblowing policy and gifts and hospitality policy.
Approved the Audit Committee's schedule of work for 2019.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 61 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The principal matters of judgement and estimation considered by Having completed this review, the Audit Committee agreed that the Audit Committee in relation to the 2018 accounts and how the audit process, independence and quality of the external audit they were addressed were: were satisfactory.
The year end balance sheet includes goodwill of 230.2m, this represents 30.4% of the Consideration was given to the possibility of re-tendering the Group's assets.
The Audit Committee reviewed the carrying external work during the course of the year but as the Committee value of goodwill by examining a report from the Group are satisfied with the work of Deloitte during the year, the decision Financial Controller which sets out the values attributable to was made not to re-tender.
The Audit Committee has each cash generating unit, the expected value in use, based on recommended that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed auditors for the projected cash flows and the key economic assumptions related 2019 financial year and Deloitte's continuing appointment will be to growth and discount rates.
The Audit Committee discussed subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 AGM.
the appropriateness of the assumptions used, compared expected growth rates to historical averages and relevant Statement of compliance market data and compared the discount rates to the Group The Company confirms that it has complied with terms of The weighted average cost of capital and appropriate risk Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation premiums.
Following the discussion, the Audit Committee were Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit satisfied with the approach taken by management which Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the 'Order' throughout resulted in no impairment being made in 2018.
Committee also considered whether any reasonable change would result in an impairment in any cash generating unit.
The Non-audit services Audit Committee reviewed the sensitivities and impairment In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the disclosures in note 10 and were satisfied these are balanced external auditor, the Board has adopted a policy on non-audit and fair.
services which restricts the work and fees available to the external Retirement benefit schemes.
At 31 December 2018, the Group audit firm, and the policy is reviewed by the Audit Committee operates two defined benefit retirement plans, both of which annually to ensure it remains appropriate and in line with are now closed to future accrual.
The valuations are prepared applicable requirements.
The policy is compliant with EU legislation by an independent qualified actuary.
The Audit Committee on permitted non-audit fee services.
considered the report from the Group Financial Controller and were satisfied the assumptions used were appropriate.
The The policy specifies certain activities which the external auditor may detailed disclosure for these schemes under IAS19 are shown in not undertake such as work related to the internal audit function and note 24 and the Audit Committee is satisfied they are complete work related to certain tax activities.
It also contains restrictions on and accurate.
the scope of permissible non-audit work: and a cap on fees for permissible non-audit work which may not exceed 70% of the The last review by the FRC Corporate Reporting Review team of average audit fees paid in the last three consecutive years.
the Rotork pie Annual Report & Accounts was for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Following their review and responses from For work that is permitted under the policy, authority has been Rotork, the FRC advised in November 2018 they had closed their delegated to the Finance Director to approve.
This is for fees of up enquiries.
to 10,000 per project or 40,000 in aggregate for general work, and 10,000 for acquisition related work that is permitted under External auditor the policy.
Non-audit work above these levels requires the prior The year under review marks the fifth year during which Deloitte approval of the Chair of the Audit Committee or the Audit LLP has been the Group's external auditor following a formal Committee as a whole.
The 2018 year end audit will be the last year, under the Financial Reporting Council's APB Ethical An analysis of fees paid to Deloitte, including the split between Standards, that Nigel Thomas will be able to hold the role of senior audit and non-audit is included in note 8 of the Report & statutory auditor.
As a result, in 2019 Nigel Thomas will hand over Accounts.
to Dave Griffin as Deloitte LLP's lead audit partner for Rotork.
Internal controls, internal audit and risk management The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing and audit process, the scope of the Group audit and the quality of the monitoring the effectiveness of the Group's control environment, audit work throughout the year.
risk management and internal audit process.
The assessment considers: During 2018, the arrangement with PwC to provide internal audit Any issues arising from the prior year external audit.
services has continued, with the function being led by an The proposed external audit plan, including identification of experienced Head of Risk and Internal Audit from PwC.
In risks specific to Rotork.
November 2018, a new in-house Risk and Internal Audit Manager External audit scope and materiality thresholds.
has been recruited and will bring some excellent experience to the Staffing continuity and experience.
team, working alongside the PwC team which bring an The delivery of the external audit in line with the plan.
independent perspective to our audits and methodology.
The Matters arising during the external audit and the Group continues to use Rotork staff to undertake internal audits, communication of these to the Audit Committee.
and this arrangement encourages the sharing of best practice and Feedback from executive management.
provides career development for the staff involved.
Quality Private meetings with the external auditor and the Head of Risk assurance procedures ensure consistency both in terms of audit and Internal Audit without management being present.
Staffing of the central risk and The independence, objectivity and scepticism of the external internal audit team will be kept under review during 2019. auditor.
The FRC audit quality review report on selected audits undertaken by Deloitte.
62 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The Audit Committee has continued to monitor the effectiveness work will be a mix of immediate actions mitigating identified risks of internal controls, supported by internal audit.
The internal audit as well as longer term improvements aligned to the investment in the new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system.
team report and follow up on controls weaknesses, providing support to management in making operational improvements where needed.
As part of the Finance team's response to support the Growth Acceleration Programme, and in light of the above, the PwC has now been internal auditor for over a year and as they organisational structure and reporting lines are being revised to have gained an understanding of the Group their insights have bring greater accountability and clarity.
provided the Audit Committee with more information to further improve the quality of the control environment and the three lines During 2018, PwC have undertaken a risk maturity assessment, of defence.
looking at all aspects of the Group's risk management processes and the connections between those various processes and the Internal audit has delivered financial audit reports for 32 of our day-to-day operations of the Group.
A number of enhancements global locations during 2018.
Guidance is provided to auditors have been made in the year to improve the connections between the key aspects of the risk management framework in line with about the nature and extent of testing to be undertaken and to ensure auditors focus their efforts in key areas of risk, tailored by this assessment and further work is planned for the coming year.
Investment has also been made to improve the quality and The Key Risk Indicators have been updated and enhanced, technology has been embedded to support the facilitation of the consistency of reporting of issues.
risk management process and there has been increased focus on reporting of risks which exceed the Board's risk appetite.
Furthermore, they have undertaken seven risk-based internal audit reviews during 2018, covering the following areas: IT disaster recovery.
PwC completed a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function in early 2018 comparing against industry best practice Treasury management.
The Audit Committee reviewed the progress made Anti-bribery and corruptions measures.
against the resultant action plan in December 2018.
Improvements introduced include an Internal Audit Charter, enhancements to Major contract approvals.
Internal Audit methodology and guidance, and delivery of a Staff training and induction safety related.
programme of risk-based internal audits, alongside financial audits.
The 2019 audit programme has been scoped to include a number The internal audit team continue to administer the process for sites to confirm the operation of key financial controls on at least a quarterly of risk-based audits related to the Group's Principal Risks as well as financial audits across a wide range of locations.
This process provides good insight into key areas of risk.
audited are selected based on a thorough assessment using a The Audit Committee continues to receive reports at the main number of relevant risk factors.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the 2019 programme at its December 2018 meeting.
meetings on internal audit activity, any significant matters arising and the management response.
During the year, the internal audit team made recommendations for improvement to controls, which Whistleblowing management are charged with implementing.
The status and At the December meeting, the Committee reviewed Rotork's effectiveness of actions are monitored by internal audit and regularly whistleblowing policy and procedures.
It was not considered reported to the Audit Committee.
During 2018, the process for necessary to make any changes to these following the last update.
internal audit 'follow up' of agreed management actions arising at the end of 2017.
From 2019, review of the whistleblowing policy z from internal audit reviews has been revised to bring additional and procedures will be the responsibility of the Board in z r, rigour and consistency to the process.
This has led to a greater focus accordance with the 2018 Corporate Governance Code.
on where control gaps remain and the actions outstanding.
Other matters E Other means of assessing the internal control systems include the In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee m z risk assessment process and annual letters of assurance from the carried out a review of its effectiveness by way of a questionnaire.... V, divisional leadership team.
These controls sit alongside our system of and discussion facilitated by the Company Secretary, including governance, including key committees that monitor our processes how it discharged its responsibilities.
and controls, such as the Audit Committee and CSR Committee.
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee also considered relevant During the year, the Audit Committee also considered reports on accounting and corporate governance developments, in addition to anti-bribery and corruption procedures.
those in relation to risk and internal controls discussed above.
As set out in Strategic Report, the continuous improvement and Areas of focus for 2019 execution of a comprehensive and robust system of risk Key areas of focus for the coming year are: 8 :::: management is a high priority for Rotork.
Many of the principal To review progress and the impact of the programme to risks are aligned with areas of accelerated growth and in a number enhance the internal control framework, through improved z - of areas the risk trend is increasing.
In that context, the Audit accountability, segregation of duties, consistency and a z Committee has sought information and insight over the quality of stronger second line of defence.
"This work will focus on certain 0 ""' the control environment and three lines of defence, together with immediate action areas as well as continuing as a component of :::: recommendations for improvements to controls from both internal the development of the new ERP system."
In response, a series of measures and actions Continue to support the transition of the new external audit have been agreed by management to further enhance the control partner and Risk and Internal Audit Manager.
environment including improvements to accountability, consistency and the development of a stronger second line of defence.
This Lucinda Bell Chair of the Audit Committee 4 March 2019 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63
