Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Nomination Committee report As a Committee, we have the important role of ensuring that the Board of Royal Mail and its senior executives have the appropriate mix of diversity, skills and experience to make the right decisions to deliver the Groups strategy.
Dear shareholder, I led the search for Moya's successor in my and Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
As Chair of the Nomination Committee, I am role as Chair of the Nomination Committee.
He has also held an important role and been pleased to present the Committees report for We are also delighted to appoint Sue Whalley essential during a period of significant change the year ended 25 March 2018. to the Board in her role as Chief Executive for the Company.
We also wish him well for Officer of Post and Parcels, Royal Mail UK, the future.
Following careful consideration, During the reporting year, alongside me, the with effect from 1 June 2018. and taking into account his extensive financial Committee members were Orna Ni-Chionna experience, the Committee concluded that and Paul Murray.
After careful consideration, We were delighted to appoint Simon Keith Williams will succeed Paul as the Chair it was agreed that Rita Griffin, Les Owen, Thompson on 1 November 2017 as a of the Audit and Risk Committee and we look Simon Thompson and Keith Williams would Non-Executive Director and as a member forward to welcoming Keith into the role.
be appointed to the Committee with effect of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board After careful consideration, the Committee from 19 April 2018.
The meetings of the employed the executive search firm The Up concluded that Rita Griffin should be Committee are also attended by the Group Group to assist with Simons appointment.
recommended to the Board as a member HR Director, as required, and supported On 1 January 2018, the Board was delighted of the Remuneration Committee and that by the Company Secretary.
The Chief to appoint Keith Williams as a Non-Executive I would step down from the Remuneration Executive Officer and other Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and Committee, both with effect from 1 July 2017.
Directors may also be requested to attend Risk Committee.
The Board employed the when required.
The number of Committee executive search firm Egon Zehnder to assist An external evaluation of the Committee meetings held during 2017-18 and members with Keiths appointment.
The Company was carried out in 2017-18.
The evaluation attendance is set out on page 61.
The full also employs Egon Zehnder for both senior concluded that the Nomination Committee Terms of Reference for the Committee can be executive appointments and for some operated very well.
The evaluation is found on our website at royalmailgroup.
discussed in greater detail on page 67.
The following report outlines Board and For both appointments, the Committee Directors re-election Committee changes, the Committees considered candidates against objective The Committee considered the performance priorities during the year, progress made and criteria, having due regard to the benefits of of each individual Director, including the priorities for 2018-19.
Board diversity, and, following interviews with whether they continued to be effective and other Directors, recommended to the Board demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Board and Committee the appointments of Simon Thompson and Following a performance evaluation of changes Keith Williams as Directors of the Company.
each Director and the Board as a whole, all We have had an active year.
There were a Directors are considered by the Board to be Cath Keers retired on 28 February 2018, number of changes to the Board composition fully effective.
This supports the proposal for having served on the Board as a during the year.
their re-election at the AGM.
Non-Executive Director for nearly eight years.
We announced in April 2018 that Moya Greene Cath also stepped down as a member of the will retire in September 2018 having served Nomination and Audit and Risk Committees on the Board for more than eight years as at that time.
I would like to thank Cath for Peter Long Chief Executive Officer.
Moya will step down her valued contribution.
She has played a Chairman from the Board on 19 July 2018, the date of pivotal part through a tremendous period of 16 May 2018 the Companys AGM.
I would like to extend my change for the Company.
We wish her well for sincere thanks to Moya for her tremendous the future.
contribution to the Board during a defining Paul Murray will be stepping down time for Royal Mail.
We wish her the very best from the Board following the AGM on for the future.
19 July 2018, having served on the Board Rico Back will succeed Moya and assume the as a Non-Executive Director for almost nine role of Group Chief Executive Officer of the years.
I would like to thank Paul for his valued Company and join the Board on 1 June 2018. contribution as a Non-Executive Director Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 65 Royal Mail plc | Nomination Committee report environment in which all individuals are able Board diversity Ensuring a diverse pipeline to make best use of their skills, free from The Board promotes diversity in its broadest through succession planning discrimination or harassment.
sense, including education, skills, age, gender The Nomination Committee ensures there and ethnic diversity.
It is our strong belief that is the correct balance of skills, experience Through its Board effectiveness review, the a diverse Board with different backgrounds and expertise amongst Non-Executive Board assesses that it is compliant with and viewpoints in decision-making Directors so they can lead decision-making that Policy.
The principles of that Policy are benefits the Groups stakeholders and and assess the performance and strategy of embedded in the Board appointment process.
The Policy was implemented during the This year, our Board gender diversity metric The Board places a strong emphasis on recruitment of both Keith Williams and Simon has slightly reduced.
At our year-end, there increasing diversity in senior leadership.
During their recruitment, both was a representation of 33 per cent females There are initiatives in place to achieve the long list and short list addressed diversity on the Board.
This conforms with Lord this.
They include the Spingboard womens in its broadest form.
We also support the Davies' recommendation of 33 per cent development programme, which has been Hampton-Alexander Review recommendation female by 2020. helping encourage women into leadership of 33 per cent target for women in senior positions since 2005. leadership positions by 2020.
It is the During the year, Simon Thompson and Boards intention to progress towards the Keith Williams were appointed to the Board.
We have a Diversity Council, which reports recommendations of the Parker Review.
They bring different skills and experience to to the Chief Executive Committee, which It proposes each FTSE 100 Board have at complement the Boards discussions and monitors and progresses the Groups diversity least one director from an ethnic minority decision-making.
Simon has extensive digital performance.
As an employer, Royal Mail background by 2021. transformation experience.
Keith has strong has put in place many initiatives to adapt our financial expertise and is a respected business culture and to encourage women to get into The Nomination Committee, however, does leader.
Both have significant experience in management positions.
The Council looks not feel that it is appropriate to set a quota customer-focused operations.
not just at women but also colleagues from on diversity nor does it believe that this is different ethnic backgrounds, parents and the best way of achieving a balanced Board.
See the Board biographies and the skills carers, disabled colleagues, young people We instead use a robust skills matrix to and experience matrix on pages 58-61 for and LGBT people.
We know that women and ensure there is the appropriate experience further information.
ethnic minorities are underrepresented in among the Board members.
We encourage them into our There is also an adopted Equality and The Board has adopted a Board and Diversity workforce by using balanced shortlisting, Fairness Policy.
This is our overarching policy Policy to ensure transparency and diversity career development opportunities and for diversity within the Group and is approved in making appointments to the Board on mentoring and networking events.
A copy of the Equality the recommendation of the Nomination and Fairness Policy is available on our Committee.
This Policy sets out Royal website at royalmailgroup.
com Mails approach to diversity.
It ensures transparency and diversity and fairness at all stages of employment.
The Policy expresses the Group's commitment of creating an Last year's priorities, actions and next years priorities 2017-18 priorities Progress over the year 2018-19 priorities Review the structure, size and composition of Identified suitable Board candidate.
Continued focus on succession planning for both the Board.
Recommended the appointment of Simon Board and senior management.
Review the structure, size and composition of Recommended changes to the Remuneration Continued focus on diversity in the broadest sense.
Committee, with Rita Griffin being appointed and Ensuring the skills and experience within the Peter Long stepping down.
Group help deliver its strategic framework.
Consider whether the Non-Executive Directors The Committee reviewed the tenure of the Undertake a rigorous review of the independence continue to be independent and effective and Non-Executive Directors against the provisions of of the longer-serving Board members.
have demonstrated commitment to the role and the Code.
All Directors were considered to be fully thus should be recommended to the Board for effective.
The Board supported the proposal for re-election at the AGM.
their re-election at the 2017 and 2018 AGMs.
Promoting diversity throughout the business.
Candidates proposed by the Up Group and Continue to promote diversity in the broadest Egon Zehnder were from diverse backgrounds, sense at Board and senior executive levels.
Annual evaluation of the Committees An external evaluation concluded that the A further external evaluation is planned for performance.
Nomination Committee operated very well.
Annual review of the Committees Terms Detailed review of the Committee Terms Following a detailed review in 2016-17, it was of Reference.
concluded that no further changes are required in 2017-18.
A further review will be undertaken towards the end of 2018 once the revised UK Corporate Governance Code has been published.
66 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Case Study: Directors induction programme December 2016 Rita joined the board Induction programme prepared and sent to Rita prior to appointment On appointment, full access to the online Directors Reference Manual, which contains the following key documents: Introduction to Royal Mail Role of the Board and its Committees Royal Mail Corporate Governance and Directors Duties Board Effectiveness Review Appointment and Board processes Articles of Association Royal Mail share and dealing regulations Corporate history and Group structure Corporate Strategy Code of Business Standards Treasury Risk Management Business Integrity and Group Policies Capital Structure, Business Plan and Directors and Officers Liability Insurance Capital Investment and Procurement Spend My structured induction February to July 2017 programme gave me Meetings with key executives: Board Executives External Stakeholders a thorough insight Chairman Managing Director of Lawyers into the business: its Royal Mail Letters and Network operations, its markets Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer GLS Brokers and its people.
It was a Chief Finance Officer Company Secretary Audit partner great way of getting to Non-Executive Directors Chief of Staff All corporate function heads know the business.
Briefings on the business: Overview of the business Corporate history Governance framework Strategy and vision Finance overview Board evaluation Board objectives Regulation Talent and succession Key business issues risks Competitors Digital Unions pay and pensions Site and Operational visits Tour of the Heathrow Worldwide Distribution Centre Depot in Milan Visit to GLS operations in Frankfurt Mount Pleasant Mail Centre Nine Elms Delivery Office in London Swindon Mail Centre Walk with a postman Board evaluation Findings of the Actions taken during Findings of the Topic 2016-17 evaluation 2017-18 2017-18 evaluation Succession planning Board should continue to progress Board skills reviewed to ensure Continue to review the skills required the Board succession plan for both continued alignment with strategy.
following strategy review and Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Succession planning a real focus all year.
discussions to ensure an appropriate Ensure smooth succession plan for the succession plan for the Board and the Two major internal promotions, Group Executive Directors.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Post and Parcels, Royal Mail UK.
Business Ensure adequate time is spent on Adequate time spent on labour issue and Ensure adequate time is spent on UK transformation labour issues as part of the business pensions.
Continued focus on growth growth, digital transformation, ways of strategy transformation agenda for the UK opportunities in the UK.
Ensure sufficient time is given to growth opportunities in the UK.
GLS expansion Ensure full Board support is provided Increased understanding of this key Continue to explore global opportunities to Management on the execution of this strategic priority to fully understand in an appropriate and meaningful way.
Digital Explore more deeply what digital An area of continuing focus to Digital transformation continues to be a means for the Royal Mail Group and its understand the Groups position in a priority for 2018-19. relevance for the Group's customers.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 67 Royal Mail plc | Nomination Committee report Committees evaluation Findings of the Actions taken during Findings of the Topic 2016-17 evaluation 2017-18 2017-18 evaluation Audit and Risk Provide full support to ensure the Successful transition and support for the Agreed to increase time spent on Committee successful transition to a new Director new Director of Internal Audit and Risk in-depth reviews to ensure maximum of Internal Audit and Risk Management.
Continue with education and Continue to focus on the Groups risk discussed and developed.
Review the risk appetite and the risk framework with focus on the in-depth reviews together register to ensure adequate time is spent in-depth reviews into specific areas that with Committees training programme.
on emerging risks and scenario planning.
might materially impact the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Introduce an enhanced training programme to complement the induction programme for new Directors to widen their knowledge both from a corporate governance and regulatory perspective and to give depth to their knowledge of the Group.
Remuneration Ensure greater transparency by the Understanding of the senior To continue with briefings from PwC on Committee Committee of the Senior Management management team has improved.
the remuneration landscape and trends Team.
Review the remuneration strategy as well as increasing benchmarking data Internal and external support to the for the broader Royal Mail management.
Sufficient Introduce regular formal training external data and briefings were Continue undertaking an annual bonus sessions into the annual meeting cycle provided to the Committee on an review.
Assess appropriate measures as to understand emerging governance ongoing basis.
part of the wider policy review.
themes, legislation changes and other trends in remuneration matters.
Nomination Committee Support the Board in delivering the Progress with succession for the Board Ensure smooth transition for change Board succession plan for both the and executive.
Better understanding of of CEO and Executive Directors Board Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Maintain focus on talent Responsible for reviewing the talent and review and succession planning succession planning across the senior for key executives.
Plan for future leadership group.
Non-Executive Directors appointments to fill any skill gaps identified.
Pensions Committee Continue to fully understand the broader Good progress made with the CWU Review terms of reference to reflect pension developments.
Ensure full with regards pensions.
Pension issues agreed future structure of Groups awareness at Board level.
Provide regularly discussed at Board and pension schemes.
Continue to keep relevant pensions training to both the therefore greater understanding of Board appraised of Committees Board and the Committee.
Review future remit the 2018 Pension Review.
appropriate future investment strategy for the pensions within the Group.
68 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18
