Report of the Group Audit Committee Letter from Brendan Nelson Chairman of the Group Audit Committee The effectiveness of RBSs standards of In my role as GAC Chairman I also act as Dear Shareholder, internal control, in particular controls relating RBSs Whistleblowing Champion.
As such, I This report outlines the key areas of focus of to financial management, reporting and carry responsibility for ensuring and the Group Audit Committee GAC and accounting issues, was another key focus of overseeing the integrity, independence and explains how it fulfilled its responsibilities the Committee.
effectiveness of the firms whistleblowing during 2018. arrangements.
RBSs whistleblowing The Committees primary framework and procedures promote a culture focus is the integrity and The GAC has responsibility for monitoring and where individuals feel comfortable raising reviewing RBSs financial reports and concerns and challenging poor practice and quality of RBSs financial disclosures, its accounting policies and behaviour.
During 2018, the FCA completed statements practices and standards of internal control.
its review of the whistleblowing arrangements The GACs responsibilities are set out in more RBS, in common with other large banks, was of RBS and other firms.
I am pleased to report detail in its terms of reference which are required to deliver ring-fencing by the that the FCAs review concluded that RBSs reviewed annually and are available on beginning of 2019.
Throughout 2018 the arrangements were well developed and cited rbs.
Committee received regular updates on the several examples of good practice.
ring-fencing programme including, in The Committees primary focus is the integrity particular, its impact on financial reporting for Looking forward to 2019, the GAC will and quality of RBSs financial statements.
continue its focus on financial reporting: During the year we scrutinised the quarterly, accounting policies and internal controls, interim and full year results announcements During 2018 RBS resolved significant legacy ensuring robust scrutiny of RBSs financial and supporting documentation, and the 2018 issues, in particular the settlement of the US reports and disclosures.
Department of Justices investigation into Residential Mortgage Backed Securities.
The As you will have seen earlier in the report, I Detailed reports from management on the key GAC was closely engaged to ensure this was retire as a director of the Group at the assumptions and accounting judgements appropriately disclosed and provided for.
forthcoming AGM and after 9 years as behind RBSs financial results, IFRS 9 Similarly, the GAC kept existing provisions for Chairman of the GAC I will be succeeded by expected credit losses and the conclusions of liabilities under close review throughout the Patrick Flynn who has been a valuable the External Auditor and other management year.
member of the GAC since June 2018. reports, enabled the Committee to scrutinise disclosures in the financial statements and the 2018 also saw significant developments in underlying judgements and estimates were relation to Brexit.
Whilst Brexit was largely appropriate.
discussed at Board level, given its potential Brendan Nelson strategic impact, the Committee considered Chairman of the Group Audit Committee Further detail on the most material issues the potential impact on the economic 14 February 2019 considered by the Committee is provided in environment and, subsequently on RBSs the report below.
Membership Regular attendees at GAC meetings included: Performance evaluations Full biographical details of the GAC members the RBS Chairman: Chief Executive: Chief The performance of the GAC was evaluated are set out on pages 47 and 48.
With effect Financial Officer: Deputy Chief Financial by an external party in 2018.
The evaluation from 1 January 2019 Mark Seligman was also Officer: Chief Accountant: Chief Legal Officer concluded that the GAC operated effectively appointed to the GAC.
The members are all and General Counsel: and the Internal and during 2018.
The Committee was described independent non-executive directors and each External Auditors.
The GAC also met privately as thorough and diligent in tackling its sit on other Board Committees as shown on with the external auditors and separately with agenda.
Some recommendations for pages 47 and 48 in addition to the GAC.
improvement were identified mainly on length cross committee membership helps facilitate of meetings and paper submissions.
The effective governance, ensures agendas are Meetings and visits Board and the GAC have considered and aligned and avoids overlap of responsibilities.
The GAC held seven scheduled meetings in discussed the outcomes of the evaluation and 2018, four of which were held shortly prior to will track progress on the recommendations The members of GAC are selected with a submission of the quarterly financial during 2019. view to the expertise and experience of the statements to the Board.
During 2018 all GAC as a whole and with proper regard to the members attended the meetings scheduled Evaluations of the External Auditor and key issues and challenges facing RBS.
during their term as Committee members.
Internal Audit function are conducted each year.
The 2018 Internal Audit evaluation was The Board is satisfied that all GAC members In conjunction with the BRC, the GAC took conducted by KPMG who assessed Internal have recent and relevant financial experience part in an annual programme of visits to Audit against the Institute of Internal Audit and are independent as defined in the SEC control functions in order to maintain a International Standards and also against rules under the US Securities Exchange Act thorough understanding of their priorities and relevant regulatory guidance.
The overall of 1934 the Exchange Act and related operational structure.
This programme findings were positive and recommendations guidance.
The Board has further determined comprised two visits to Risk: two visits to for improvement are being progressed by that Brendan Nelson, GAC Chairman, Internal Audit and a visit to Finance.
Internal Audit and overseen by the GAC.
The Baroness Noakes Patrick Flynn and Mark In addition, the GAC and BRC visited RBSs 2018 evaluation of the External Auditor was Seligman are all financial experts for the operations in India where they met with RBS conducted internally.
It concluded that the purposes of compliance with the Exchange India Executive Committee members, the external auditor was operating effectively.
Act Rules and the requirements of the New local internal and external audit teams and HR Some recommendations for continuous York Stock Exchange, and that they have team, as well as key employee groups.
During improvement were identified and are being competence the visit the GAC and BRC received updates implemented by the External Auditor.
in accounting and auditing as required under on the RBS India business units, the top risks the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency in the Indian business and plans for their Rules.
remediation, the people plan and Technology strategy for India.
54 Report of the Group Audit Committee Matter Context of discussion How the Committee addressed the matter Accounting The GAC focused on Provisions and disclosures The GAC debated the level and appropriateness of significant judgements a number of provisions for regulatory, litigation and conduct issues including: provisions for the US RMBS accounting investigations: Payment Protection Insurance claims: the FCAs investigation into RBSs former judgements and Global Restructuring Group: and items relating to the Central Bank of Irelands review of Irish reporting issues in Tracker mortgages.
During 2018 RBS recognised 2,014 million of litigation and conduct the preparation of the provisions.
The GAC also carefully reviewed the quality and transparency of RBSs financial and Groups financial risk disclosures.
results throughout Expected Credit Loss Judgements in relation to credit impairments and the impact of macro- 2018. economic risks on the credit environment were discussed throughout the year.
GAC focused on the methodology applied to provisions under IFRS 9.
In particular the GAC considered the potential The Committee then impact of Brexit and related negotiations on the economic environment and agreed an additional recommended the 100 million impairment charge in this respect in Q3 2018.
The Committee was satisfied that the quarterly, interim and overall loan impairment provisions and underlying assumptions and methodologies adopted by full year results RBS were reasonable and applied consistently.
announcements and Valuation methodologies The GAC considered valuation methodologies and assumptions for the Annual Report financial instruments carried at fair value and scrutinized judgements made by management in and Accounts, relation to the carrying value of intangible assets.
together with Managements assessment of the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting The GAC supporting noted that control improvements were required in relation to the translation of the Expected Credit documentation Loss data under IFRS 9 and FX Reserves in discontinued operations in NatWest Markets plc.
The including Pillar 3 Committee noted the action being taken by management to address these.
There were no Material reports, financial Weaknesses reported in relation to RBS Group at the year-end.
supplements and Viability statement and the going concern basis of accounting GAC considered evidence of investor RBSs capital, liquidity and funding position and considered the process to support the assessment presentations to the of principal risks.
The GAC reviewed the companys prospects in light of its current position and the Board for approval.
The GAC reviewed RBSs viability and going concern statements on behalf of the Board.
Refer to the Report of the directors for further information.
Fair balanced & understandable The GAC oversaw the review process which supports the GAC and Board in concluding that the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The process included: central co-ordination of the Annual Report and Accounts by the Finance function: review of the Annual Report and Accounts by the Executive Disclosure Committee prior to consideration by the GAC: and a management certification process.
The External Auditor also considered the fair balanced and understandable statement as part of the audit process.
Systems of GAC is particularly Control Environment Certification The GAC received bi-annual updates on control environment internal interested in the ratings of RBSs franchises, functions and material subsidiaries and managements plans to control systems of internal address areas of weakness.
Managements plans to address certain control issues are covered in control relating to more detail in the report of the Group Board Risk Committee on page 57. financial Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The GAC considered RBSs compliance with the requirements of management, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and was satisfied in this respect.
No Material Weaknesses were reporting and reported in RBS Group at the year-end.
The GAC provided oversight of the drive to continue to accounting issues.
A improve SOX processes and received a number of updates in this regard.
The GAC are number of reports monitoring enhancements in controls in relation to: reporting of credit exposures specifically under were received by the newly implemented IFRS9 accounting standard and the processes around the accounting for GAC throughout the foreign currency reserves.
year in this regard Legal Reports Quarterly reports on the material current and emerging legal risks and and the effectiveness developments affecting RBS enabled the GAC to assess the related disclosures in RBSs financial of RBSs internal statements.
control systems, Notifiable Event Process The GAC considered semi-annual reports on control breaches, including any captured by RBSs notifiable event process.
All Board directors were alerted to the most significant significant failings or breaches.
weaknesses were Whistleblowing The GAC received updates on the volume of whistleblowing reports, any evaluated.
discernible trends and staff awareness of the processes.
GAC also monitored the effectiveness of whistleblowing procedures.
The GAC Chairman acts as RBSs Whistleblowing Champion, in line with PRA and FCA regulations and meets regularly with RBSs whistleblowing team.
Complaints Updates were provided to the GAC on customer complaints.
GAC focusses in particular on any fraud related complaints, the process for managing executive complaints and complaints relating to accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters.
Taxation The GAC received an update on RBSs tax position including the impact of ring-fencing on tax governance, material tax risks and disputes, compliance with RBSs tax obligations and the main projects and external developments impacting RBSs tax position.
Annual Risk and Control Report The GAC also reviewed RBSs disclosure on internal control matters in conjunction with the related guidance from the Financial Reporting Council.
55 Report of the Group Audit Committee Matter Context of discussion How the Committee addressed the matter Internal audit The Committee has Opinions Quarterly opinion reports updated GAC on Internal Audits view of the risk and control responsibility for environment and risk and control awareness of each business and function, and the risks which overseeing the could impact RBS achieving its targets.
Internal Audit also outlined material and emerging Internal Audit concerns identified through their audit work.
In addition, Internal Audit reported on items including function.
In addition Pillar 3 reporting and the whistleblowing process.
to considering Annual Plan and Budget GAC considered and approved Internal Audits plan for 2018. quarterly opinions Updates and anticipated changes to the plan were provided to the GAC periodically.
The GAC from Internal Audit, also considered Internal Audits budget.
The Committee was satisfied that Internal Audit had GAC is required to adequate budget and resources to deliver the plan.
monitor the functions Internal Audit Charter and Independence Updates to Internal Audits charter reflecting effectiveness and changes to RBSs legal entity structure were noted by the GAC.
The GAC also noted the Chief confirm its Audit Executives independence statement.
independence and Visits Together with the BRC, GAC participated in two visits to Internal Audit during 2018.
A was fully satisfied in variety of issues impacting the Internal Audit function were discussed, including: resourcing and this regard.
structure: succession planning: quality assurance: the future of internal audit: and the 2019 Audit Plan.
Performance The Chief Audit Executive continued to report to the GAC Chairman, with a secondary reporting line to the Chief Executive for administrative purposes.
The GAC assessed the annual performance including risk performance of the function and Chief Audit Executive.
Evaluation The 2018 annual review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was undertaken externally by KPMG.
The evaluation assessed the function against the Institute of Internal Auditor International Standards and found that it Generally Conforms to the requirements, and is in line with peer organisations.
There were some areas where the function Partially Conforms to a limited number of requirements, but none were considered to be significant and in most cases, steps were already being taken to address these.
External audit Ernst & Young LLP Audit Partner Jonathan Bourne has been EYs lead audit partner for RBS since 2016.
Mr Bourne EY has been RBSs attended each meeting of the GAC in 2018. external auditor since External Audit Reports EY reported to the GAC each quarter on their audit work and related 2016.
The GAC has conclusions, including the appropriateness of judgements made by management and their responsibility for compliance with international financial reporting standards.
The GAC also reviewed EYs annual monitoring EYs management letter.
independence and Audit Plan and fees The GAC considered updates on EYs 2018 plan and approved the 2018 objectivity, the audit fees including the fee for the 2018 interim results.
The GAC was authorised by shareholders effectiveness of the at the last Annual General Meeting to fix the remuneration of the external auditors.
audit process and for Annual Evaluation An internal evaluation was carried out at the GACs request to assess the reviewing RBSs independence and objectivity of the External Auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process financial relationship during 2018.
GAC members, attendees, the Franchise and Functional Finance Directors and key with the External members of the Finance team were consulted as part of the evaluation.
The evaluation assessed Auditor and fixing the external auditors mindset and culture, skills, character and knowledge, quality control and remuneration.
The evaluation found that the External Auditor was operating effectively.
A number of recommendations for continuous improvement were identified which are being implemented by the External Auditor.
Following the evaluation the GAC recommended that the Board seek the reappointment of EY as external auditor at the next annual general meeting.
CASS Opinions During 2018 the external auditor presented the results of its assurance procedures on compliance with the FCAs Client Asset Rules for RBSs regulated legal entities for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The GAC also considered the CASS Audit plan for 2018, the findings of which will be reported to the GAC once the audit is complete.
External Auditor Report to the PRA GAC considered EYs 2018 written report to the PRA under supervisory statement SS1 16.
The report responded to specific questions posed by the PRA, most of which concerned the interpretation of the IFRS 9 accounting rules by RBS.
GAC also discussed the questions received from the PRA in relation to the report required for 2019.
Audit & nonRBS has a policy in Under the policy, audit related services and permitted non-audit service engagements may be audit services relation to the approved by the Director of Finance up to certain financial thresholds.
Engagements in excess of engagement of the these limits require the approval of the GAC chairman.
The Director of Finance may also approve external auditors to the provision of services by the external auditor to non-consolidated subsidiaries of RBS within an perform audit and annual cap and approve engagements with the external auditor where RBS has limited or no non-audit services influence in the selection process.
Where the fee for a non-audit service engagement is expected the policy.
GAC to exceed 100,000, a competitive tender process must be held and approval of the full GAC is reviews the policy required.
All such approvals are reported to the GAC each quarter.
annually to ensure it remains fit for During 2018, approval was granted under the policy for the external auditors to undertake purpose.
All audit and significant engagements in relation to a gap assessment in relation to IFRS 9 reporting non-audit services infrastructure and to provide assurance over LIBOR submissions.
The decision to approve EY was are pre-approved by made in the first case as a result of EYs existing knowledge of RBS systems which allowed work the Committee to to commence quickly and in the second case, following a tender process.
In each case the GAC safeguard the was satisfied that the engagement did not impact the external auditors independence.
external auditors independence and Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and permitted under the policy can be objectivity.
Information on fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services carried out by the External Auditor can be found in Note 6 to the consolidated accounts.
