74 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Introduction I am pleased to present this years Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
This is my first report as Chairman of the Committee having taken over from Martin Towers who will be leaving the Board and the I am looking forward to Committee at the Companys AGM in July 2018.
My thanks go to Martin for his working with the Committee time and assistance in aiding a smooth transition as I have worked to assume responsibilities as Chairman and understand RPC.
and the RPC management Since joining RPC in September 2017 I have visited a number of our businesses team to maintain high including meeting the divisional management teams as well as those with key functional responsibility at the Groups head office in Northamptonshire.
standards of corporate I am looking forward to working with the Committee and the RPC management reporting, internal control, team to maintain high standards of corporate reporting, internal control, risk management and auditquality.
risk management and This report describes how the Committee has applied the principles of the auditquality.
Code, its work during the year, its responsibilities and key tasks as well as its major areas of activity and key considerations for the financial year ended 31 March 2018.
The Committee has covered a wide range of different issues during the year.
Engagement with the Financial Reporting Council FRC on a number of items in our 2017 Annual Report has, in many respects reflected internal work that has been ongoing.
This has included the introduction of new accounting standards as well as disclosures in relation to Alternative Performance Measures.
This is all part of the Companys improvement in its external disclosure in recent years and it is my intention that this will continue.
The terms of reference of the Committee have been subject to review and a revised set was approved by the Committee in May 2018.
These reflect the key changes that flowed out of the publication of the Code in 2016 as well as the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees 2016.
An updated Internal Audit Charter Kevin Thompson has also been approved by the Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The financial year ending 31 March 2019 will see the Committee working hard to ensure all aspects of its remit are firmly embedded within the organisation and that it satisfies those duties and responsibilities contained within the new terms of reference.
The implementation of an externally managed and fully independent whistleblowing service, as part of the enhanced governance framework, is something that marks a real step forward.
On behalf of my colleagues on the Committee I can confidently say we are all committed to the continuing allocation of our time in order to understand both the business and the external requirements to ensure we remain in a position to satisfy our obligations and meet the needs of the Group.
Key responsibilities The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: n monitor the financial reporting process including the integrity and clarity of the financial statements of the Company and review any significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain: n review and challenge where necessary the consistency of and changes to accounting policies, the methods used to account for significant and unusual transactions and consider whether the Company has followed appropriate accounting standards and made appropriate estimates and judgements: n approve the external auditors terms of engagement including their remuneration, audit plan and scope of the audit and review with them the results of their audit and any control issues raised: n review the effectiveness of the external auditor and their independence and objectivity: Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Governance n consider and make recommendations to the Board on the external auditors Activities during the year terms of appointment, reappointment or removal: The Committee met on three occasions during the year.
The meetings in the year, together with the May 2018 meeting, dealt with the following matters: n monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and review the Groups procedures for detecting fraud May November January May and its systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and receive reports 2017 2017 2018 2018 on non-compliance: Financial reporting and n review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns about significant judgements possible wrongdoing in financial and other matters: and Full year results announcement n monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, Half year results announcement approve the appointment and removal of internal auditors, review and Going concern report approve their remit, review and assess internal audit plans, review internal Viability statement audit reports and monitor managements responses to recommendations.
Correspondence with the Financial Reporting Council Composition and governance External audit Along with myself, current members of the Committee include Lynn Drummond, Review and consideration of Ros Rivaz and Martin Towers.
All members of the Committee are considered auditors Full Year report to be independent pursuant to the Code and were appointed to the Committee Review and consideration of by the Board following recommendations by the Nominations Committee.
auditors Half Year report Whilst all other directors, the Chairman, the executive directors and Godwin Management representation letter Wong are not members of the Committee, they attend meetings by invitation along with the Head of Internal Audit, members of the Group finance function Evaluation of external audit and the external auditors as appropriate.
The Committee holds meetings with function, objectivity and the external auditor without members of management present on at least two independence occasions each year.
The Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, acts Reappointment recommendation as Secretary of the Committee.
to Board Fees for audit The Committee comprises individuals from a wide range of managerial, professional and academic experience from accounting, finance and Fees for non-audit activities consultancy to manufacturing, engineering, supply chain, logistics, IT and External audit plan systems, pharmaceuticals and healthcare.
Combined with their experience of Separate meeting with external doing business in the UK, Europe and in the USA, South America, India and auditor the Far East the Board has confirmed that as a result they are considered to Internal audit be collectively competent in the sector in which the Company operates.
I am Review of internal controls & risk currently the Group Finance Director of Halma plc and am considered by the management Board to have recent and relevant financial experience necessary for this role.
Internal audit update My colleagues on the Committee all served throughout the year.
I joined RPC Evaluation of internal audit function and the Committee on 7 September 2017 but became Chairman at the beginning Internal audit plan of January 2018.
The effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed on an annual basis by both the Board and the Committee itself.
Other Review and adoption of new terms The Committee meets at least three times each year and otherwise as of reference circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings held during the year and New Accounting Standards IFRS 9, attendance of members at Committee meetings are shown in the table on IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 page68.
Alternative Performance Measures Non-Financial Reporting Regulations Tax Update UK Corporate Governance and other compliance External auditor  LLP PwC were appointed as external auditor on 15 July 2015 and the current audit partner is Mark Smith.
Resolutions to appoint PwC as the auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in July 2018.
76 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Ace and Letica contingent consideration Auditor objectivity, independence and non-audit fees The Committee has considered two acquisitions that have material contingent The Committee has conducted a detailed review of non-audit fees paid to the consideration and post-acquisition remuneration as part of its discussions external auditor and reviewed monitoring and approval procedures during the concerning the financial statements.
These include the contingent consideration year.
It is satisfied that the level of fees for non-audit services has not impaired in respect of Ace and Letica and are covered below: auditor objectivity and independence based on the principles adopted in the Ace Group policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Under the policy, the auditor may not be engaged to audit their own The Committee has reviewed managements estimate of the contingent work, make management decisions for the Group, have a mutual financial interest consideration that is likely to be payable in relation to the acquisition of with the Group or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Prior approval Ace having reached the end of the earn-out period on 31 December 2017. of the Committee is required for non-audit services where the fees are likely to The contingent consideration is due to be paid in June 2018 and negotiations exceed specified limits both for individual assignments and in the aggregate.
on the final settlement are currently on-going.
The Committee considered the Certain clearly trivial allowable non-audit services have been pre-approved by the decision of management to accrue for 30% of the earn-out, a figure that is down Committee.
Total fees incurred in respect of non-audit services as defined under from 50% in the previous financial year.
the policy were 0.2m for the year under review.
This figure represents 9% of the Based on the performance of the business the earn-out would be settled at total audit fee for the year and included, amongst other matters, work in relation to 13%, although there were potentially some add-backs to be negotiated that are internal restructuring, due diligence and pensions.
Further details of the amounts based on changes in structure and activity.
Managements current best estimate payable to the external auditor during the year for audit and other services are set of the value of these add backs would take the payout to 30%.
out in note 3 to the financial statements.
Letica A revised policy on non-audit fees was considered and adopted by the Committee at its meeting on 30 May 2018.
This fully reflects the recommendations set out The original earn-out period in respect of the Letica acquisition ends on 30 June in the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees 2016 and the requirements of the 2019, although a revision to the earn-out target approach is currently being FRCs Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
In line with these the external audit firm negotiated.
The amount accrued at 31 March 2018 is $8m, which represents will only be appointed to perform a non-audit service when this appointment the current best estimate of the final settlement and also the time apportioned would be consistent with the requirements and overarching principles of the obligation.
The Committee satisfied itself that the treatment is appropriate.
Ethical Standard 2016 and when its skills and experience make it the most suitable supplier.
Interaction with FRC Corporate Reporting Review Team External auditor effectiveness The Company received a letter from the Conduct Committee of the FRC In addition to its review of non-audit fees, the Committee undertakes an annual on 13 March 2018 that contained a number of questions to assist the FRC assessment of the external auditor, including matters that might have a bearing in understanding how RPC had satisfied relevant reporting requirements.
on their independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of their audit.
The FRC Conduct Committee is a body appointed by the Secretary of State to The assessment takes into account the systems and procedures adopted by PwC review and investigate the annual accounts, strategic reports and directors and the results of an internal questionnaire which was widened in the 2018 reports of public and large private companies for compliance with relevant financial year to ensure feedback from those individuals within the business that reporting requirements.
The areas where further information was requested had a material amount of interaction with the external auditor was included.
included Alternative Performance Measures, cash flow statement, provisions, The outcomes of all parts of this assessment have not been fully completed but judgements and estimates and operating segments.
will be considered at the November meeting of the Committee.
Subject to any The letter and its requests was considered with the relevant members of the additional comments, the Committee is satisfied that the external audit process is Groups finance team including the Group Finance Director and Group Controller effective and that auditor objectivity and independence is properly safeguarded.
prior to the preparation of a comprehensive response that was sent to the FRC on 19 April 2018.
A follow up letter was received on 18 May 2018 which contained Financial reporting and significant financial notification of the closure of a large number of the original points whilst asking judgements for some further information.
This letter has again been considered and an The Committee is responsible for reviewing whether suitable accounting policies appropriate response was drafted and sent to the FRC on 28 May 2018. have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates Prior to receipt of the letter from the FRC, the Group had been considering and judgements in the preparation of the financial statements.
In respect to the how to enhance various aspects of its accounting and disclosure.
This was financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018, the significant issues particularly focused on those areas covered by the Thematic Reviews issued reviewed, and how these issues were addressed, are summarised below.
The 2018 Annual Report includes a number of enhancements reflecting this process, as well as addressing the matters raised Presentation and disclosure of adjusting items by the FRC Conduct Committee in their letter.
The Group classifies specific costs as adjusting items where they meet the The FRC has requested that we advise shareholders that their review of the Annual Groups policy based on nature or size.
Adjusting items are defined within the Report for the financial year ended 31 March 2017, provides no assurance that the Group Accounting Manual, although the directors are still required to apply Annual Report is correct in all material respects, as its purpose is not to verify the judgement in order to identify such items.
Incorrect classification could lead to information provided but to consider compliance with reporting requirements.
As such misinterpretation of the financial results.
There has been a significant reduction the FRC and its officers, employees and agents accept no liability for any reliance on in adjusting items for the year ended 31 March 2018 reflecting the reduced level its review by third parties, including but not limited to shareholders and investors.
of acquisition integration activity in the year, as well as finalisation of the major reorganisation programme.
All items have been treated consistently with prior years and are in accordance with Group policy.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Governance n An Internal Controls Committee, comprising senior finance managers in Risk management and internal control the Group, ensures that operating units respond to and implement internal The Group has well-established risk management and internal control systems control recommendations arising from internal and external audits.
and the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control systems are designed n An interim report is reviewed by the Committee and the Board to monitor to meet the particular needs of the Group and to manage rather than eliminate the operating units progress against their plans to improve controls to the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Such systems can only provide ensure that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
The report also includes updates on significant risks and other internal control issues.
Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report there has been in place an established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating The internal audit function has performed reviews at a number of the Groups and managing the principal risks faced by the Group which has been regularly sites during the year.
In addition, the Group has identified a number of risks reviewed by the Committee and the Board, and is in accordance with the FRC faced by the business, requiring particular attention to control and monitoring, Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and related Financial and and these are held in a Group risk register.
Details of the specific risks that are Business Reporting published in 2014. seen as particularly important at the current time are given in the principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 28 to 32.
The key procedures in the Groups process for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls are summarised below: Internal Audit n There is a clearly defined Group management responsibility and The Group Internal Audit Manager is invited to attend Committee meetings reporting structure.
This has generally been where internal audit and internal control matters are considered and to report on the results of internal audits and n The Groups objectives are reviewed as part of the strategic planning process progress on the implementation of recommendations directly to the Committee.
and communicated throughout the Group.
Objectives are set for the divisions During the year, the Committee approved the annual internal audit plan and and in turn the individual operating businesses as part of the strategy the scope of audits.
It also reviewed the results of audits and the internal audit review process.
resources in respect of the Group and considered and adopted a revised Internal n A three year strategy review is prepared for the Boards consideration each audit charter at its meeting in May 2018.
Further resource has been added to year.
This is appraised in the light of the strategic and other relevant risks and the internal audit function in order to continue to provide the required level of issues faced by the Group, the resources available and its objectives.
The function now comprises three full time members of staff and is assisted by Deloitte LLP who provide specific technical support on areas n Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of the Groups of internal audit that cannot be provided within RPC such as IT systems and annual strategic planning cycle.
The Group has a detailed risk management Treasury functions as well as wherever else additional resources are required.
process, which identifies the key risks faced by the individual reporting entities and the Group as a whole and the actions and controls required to manage Fair, balanced and understandable these risks.
The process is reviewed each year to ensure it remains relevant to the business over time.
The Board and Committee review this information as I am pleased to confirm that the Committee concluded, and made a part of the internal control review.
recommendation to the Board that, taken as a whole, the Groups Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for n The directors are required to approve yearly financial budgets, including capital shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model expenditure, for each of the Groups operating units.
Performance against these and strategy.
targets is monitored monthly and reported at Board meetings.
Reasons for divergences are discussed at Board meetings.
Statements of compliance n Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant The directors confirm that they have carried out their annual review of the risks in their area of business, together with the design and operation of effectiveness of the system of internal control as it has operated throughout the suitable internal controls.
Through the use of risk registers, these risks are year ended 31 March 2018 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The directors also confirm that there were no weaknesses identified from the review that required remedial action.
n An annual review is performed on the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The internal audit function undertakes work to review the system of The directors also confirm that during the year they have carried out a robust internal control at each operation visited and reports findings to management.
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
n Matters relating to internal control brought to the attention of management by the internal and external auditor are reviewed and any corrective actions to the The Committee carried out a review of the Groups Going Concern and Viability internal control procedures are made in a timely manner.
Statement and reported satisfactorily to the Board.
n The Group operates an effective group reporting and consolidation system.
The Company confirms that it complied with provisions of the Competition and Monthly reports, management accounts and key performance indicators Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
are submitted by operating units and reviewed every month by senior management.
Significant risks and internal control issues are considered, actions agreed and progress monitored regularly with reporting entities and, Kevin Thompson where appropriate, at executive and Board meetings.
Chairman of the Audit Committee n Operating units produce plans to improve controls relating to key risks 6 June 2018 and any significant weaknesses identified by Group executives in addition to other initiatives and ongoing actions in progress at the local or divisional level.
