Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Audit and Risk Committee report The Committee continues to ensure accounting treatment, risk management and control and assurance processes follow best practice.
Dear shareholder, Last year's priorities, actions and next years priorities As Audit and Risk Committee Chair, I am pleased to present the Committees report 2017-18 Progress over the year 2018-19 for the year ended 25 March 2018. priorities priorities We have two fundamental responsibilities Evolving practice in Modern Slavery Act supply chain Prioritisation of cyber risk which inform the work we do as a external reporting review and compliance.
and continued focus on the Committee.
The first is to review and Groups capability to respond recommend for approval by the Board Early adoption of IFRS 9 Financial to cyber or data breech Instruments.
Review of impact all financial statements and associated incidents.
The second is to continually insight into accounting treatment satisfy ourselves that internal controls and for pensions.
risk management processes put in place by Management are working effectively.
Assurance mapping General Data Protection Successful implementation of As required by the UK 2016 Corporate across the Group Regulation GDPR updates and the GDPR Programme across Governance Code, the Board has confirmed compliance.
that I have the recent and relevant financial Assessment of going concern, Continue focus on experience to chair this committee, and my viability and covenant compliance.
fellow Committee members bring a wide Review of compliance framework Continue effective oversight range of financial expertise, in particular, including GLS including of the management of risks Rita Griffin, Les Owen and Keith Williams.
receiving quarterly updates from in GLS Group Compliance.
This will be my last report as Chair of the Review of GLS risk management Committee as I will be stepping down from arrangements to enable effective the Board following the AGM on 19 July governance and oversight of risks.
Keith Williams, who has extensive financial experience, will succeed me and I Prioritised risk reviews Review of principal risks, including Continued prioritisation of wish him well in this role.
the implications of the UK risk reviews and internal Referendum on EU Membership.
controls, including a focus Committee advisers on the Groups Business Review of risk management To help us with our responsibilities, the Continuity Programme.
Receiving Committee receives independent assurance regular updates from IA and RM from the Groups Internal Audit IA and on the results of their reviews and Risk Management RM Director.
We also the strengthened risk and control receive regular reports from the compliance self-assessment processes.
function as well as the external auditor, KPMG, across a wide range of issues Oversight of significant Financial reporting, particularly Continued oversight in support of their respective oversight financial judgements information presented by of significant financial responsibilities.
The Committee is further and external audit Management on significant judgements and supported by the Risk Management accounting judgements and external audit.
Committee RMC page 57. policies adopted in respect of the Companys half and full We also obtain support from external year results.
This includes an experts, with the Groups actuary, Willis assessment of whether the Towers Watson Limited, providing expert statements were fair, balanced opinion and long-term assumption advice and understandable.
with respect to pension accounting.
Aon Limited provides similar expertise Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 69 Royal Mail plc | Audit and Risk Committee report in relation to other long-term liabilities.
Audit Committee effectiveness Safeguarding the independence The Committee has concluded that these An external evaluation of the Committee and objectivity of the companies have the required expertise and was carried out in 2017-18.
The evaluation external auditor resources to provide the necessary advice.
concluded that the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee has a policy in respect of operated very well.
The evaluation is The Committee also relies on the advice and non-audit work.
This requires Management discussed in greater detail on page 67. information provided by the General Counsel to seek pre-approval prior to the with respect to specific provisions and engagement of the external auditor for the Effectiveness of the external other contingent liabilities.
The Committee provision of any non-audit services.
This is audit process is satisfied that the General Counsel has, to ensure that the level of fees earned from Meetings between the senior audit team and or has access to, the relevant necessary non-audit services and the type of services Finance have been held at least monthly, expertise and resources and that the company provided do not impair the external auditors giving the opportunity for any concerns to conducting the statistical surveys also has the independence and objectivity.
In general, be raised and addressed on a timely basis.
relevant necessary expertise and resources.
the external auditor is not approached to KPMGs 2017 Audit Quality Inspection The external auditor has full access to these perform non-audit work.
Report has also been discussed.
experts and, using its own actuarial and However, the auditor may be engaged to statistical experts, is able to provide further The Committee received a report on the perform non-audit services if they are assurance to the Committee on these matters.
areas of audit risk identified by KPMG and uniquely placed to undertake them, or if the approved their proposed audit approach.
performance of the non-audit services will Committee members and The Committee also reviewed and approved support a future statutory audit including the respective engagement letters for the meetings the provision of buyer assist due diligence.
The members of the Committee are all The engagement may follow a competitive independent Non-Executive Directors, being At the end of the half year review and year tender process.
Orna Ni Chionna, Rita Griffin, Les Owen, end statutory audit, the Committee received The Committee currently permits the Simon Thompson and Keith Williams, with reports from KPMG covering significant external auditor to provide non-audit me as Chair.
Cath Keers was a member of the issues identified and discussed during the services in respect of audit-related services, Committee until she stepped down from the audit visits.
In addition KPMG presented tax services and other services to the extent Board at the end of February 2018. updates on their data and analytics approach, that is permitted by auditor independence and their control findings.
These reports were Meetings of the Committee were also rules.
The Committee has delegated compared with the matters that Management attended, where relevant, by the Chairman authority to the Chief Finance Officer to had identified, to ensure consistency.
of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, pre-approve assignments up to 25,000, The Committee also held regular private the Chief Finance Officer, the Director of with an annual limit of 500,000. meetings with the external auditor.
Internal Audit and Risk Management and During the year, KPMG has been engaged other members of senior management and The formal evaluation of the external audit to provide non-audit services.
Total fees representatives from the external auditor, process is being addressed using an online earned for non-audit services during KPMG.
The Committee is supported by the questionnaire.
It was completed shortly 2017-18 were 197,000, which represented Company Secretary.
before our full year results announcement around 9 per cent of the external audit fee.
and responses were sought from individuals In addition to the fees earned from the Meeting cycle and agenda items who had been closely involved in the audit Company, KPMG has been engaged by the The Committee has a meeting planner, predominantly IT, Finance and HR as well respective Pension Trustee as external approved once a year, which provides a as Executive and Non-Executive Directors, auditor of the Royal Mail Pension Plan and framework for each meeting agenda.
During and audit partners and team members.
the Royal Mail Defined Contribution Plan, the 2017-18, meetings were primarily focused on fees for which were 129,000 in 2017-18. the half year and full year results as required The results of the online questionnaire will by the financial calendar.
The remainder of be supplemented using meetings with key The Committee also has a policy that the meetings considered internal audit and stakeholders following the conclusion of restricts the recruitment or secondment of risk management matters.
the year end audit and will focus on the individuals employed by the external auditor execution of the audit: the preparedness into positions that provide financial reporting The number of Committee meetings held of the business: sufficiency of resources: oversight where they could exercise during 2017-18 and members attendance communication and interaction: and influence over the financial or regulatory is set out on page 61.
The full Terms of overall satisfaction.
statements of the Group or the level of audit Reference for the Committee can be found on While the outcome of the meetings will not and non-audit fees.
com be available until after the signing of the KPMG was appointed as external auditor in The Statutory Audit Services for financial statements, the feedback from July 2015, following a competitive tender Large Companies Market Investigation the online survey and the review of reports process during the 2014-15 financial year.
Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender presented by Management and KPMG to Under the current regulations, the Company Processes and Audit Committee their May 2018 meeting have enabled the will be required to tender no later than the Responsibilities Order 2014 Committee to conclude that there has been 2025 -26 financial year.
The current audit appropriate focus on the primary areas of We have complied fully throughout the partner will be required to rotate after the audit risk and KPMG have applied robust year with the Statutory Audit Services 2019-20 audit.
Order 2014 issued by the Competition and The Committee has recommended the Markets Authority.
reappointment of KPMG as the Groups Paul Murray external auditor to the Board for approval by Chair, Audit and Risk Committee shareholders at the AGM in July 2018.
16 May 2018 70 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Key activity in relation to the financial statements The main areas of focus for the Committee during the year in relation to the financial statements were: Matter considered What the Committee did One-off matters considered due to their materiality or nature Ofcom investigation Following the receipt of the Statement of Objections, the Committee sought detailed Contingent liability, see note 25 on page 143 background information from General Counsel and an assessment of accounting An Ofcom investigation was launched in February 2014, following a complaint treatment from Management.
brought by TNT Post UK now Whistl, relating to certain Contract Change Notices This investigation remains a key agenda item on all updates to the Audit and Risk issued by the Group in January 2014.
As part of that investigation, on 28 July 2015, Committee.
We have continued to review and challenge Management's assessment the Group received a Statement of Objections setting out Ofcoms provisional, of the issue with reference to the accounting standards.
preliminary findings of anti-competitive conduct.
We concluded that it continues to be appropriate to treat this issue as a contingent liability.
The Committee has reviewed and approved the wording of its disclosure.
Ongoing matters considered due to their materiality and or the application of judgement Advance customer payments We continued to review and challenge the outcome from the statistical survey at 283 million, see note 19 on page 134 the half year and full year, along with the judgement made by Management as to Included within Advance customer payments is an estimate of the amounts of the level at which a stamp holding is considered abnormal.
We compared the level stamps and meter credits that have been sold but not used prior to the reporting of deferred income recognised by Management at each reporting date to ensure a date.
At March 2018, this estimate totalled 234 million March 2017: 240 million.
Separately, the auditor used its own experts to review the statistical processes and assess the judgemental assumption.
We concluded that Although the relevant survey and extrapolation is conducted by an independent the level of deferred revenue remained appropriate.
company, the level at which a stamp holding is considered to be abnormal, and therefore excluded from the estimate, is a judgement made by Management.
This judgement impacts revenue, profit and net assets.
Royal Mail Defined Benefit Pension Surplus Key long-term assumptions were prepared by the Groups actuary, Willis Towers 2,163 million, see balance sheet and note 9 on page 120 Watson Limited, and benchmarked against prevailing economic indicators and The valuation of the pension liabilities and assets relies on the estimation of other large pension schemes.
The assumptions were reviewed and approved by long-term assumptions such as RPI CPI and mortality and the selection of the Pensions Committee see report on page 74.
All of these assumptions are appropriate asset valuation methods.
Small movements in these assumptions can disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions were lead to material impacts on the balance sheet.
summarised for the Committee and explanations provided for the returns on scheme assets, particularly as a result of the liability hedging strategy.
In view of the complexity of accounting for pension schemes, significant focus is required on the associated disclosure to ensure that it is fair, balanced and The auditor used its own independent actuarial experts to confirm that the understandable.
assumptions used were reasonable and appropriate.
Industrial diseases claims provision To determine whether the level of provisioning in the balance sheet was reasonable, 83 million, see note 22 on page 142 the Committee examined reports from Management and estimates of the gross The Group is liable for claims brought by employees past and current and by provision including the number of claims incurred but not received and the individuals who were employed in the General Post Office Telecommunications associated expected cash outflow, undiscounted calculated by Aon Limited.
The division and whose employment ceased prior to October 1981.
The provision covers discount factor used by Aon, as advised by Management, to calculate the present the estimate of claims that could be received over the next 25-35 years.
Changes to value of the provision was validated against applicable bond rates.
the provision will impact the income statement and net assets.
We received KPMGs comments on the assumptions and the calculation used to reach the discounted provision and concluded that the approach taken to setting the provision continued to be appropriate.
Impact of changing employment legislation Throughout the year, the Committee received regular updates on relevant see business risks on page 44 employment law cases from the General Counsel along with impact assessments of The Group has a large workforce and changes to laws and regulations relating to judgements on the Group.
employment can have a significant effect on the Groups results.
In light of the legal updates, we examined reports prepared by Management to determine whether their interpretation of the potential liabilities for the Group was appropriate.
We concluded that these potential liabilities were accounted for appropriately based on the legal assessments provided by the General Counsel.
Allocation of Mount Pleasant disposal proceeds The Committee examined reports from Management.
See significant accounting policies on page 149 We received KPMGs comments on the assumptions and the calculation used Contracts were exchanged on 30 August 2017 for the sale of 6.25 acres of Royal to calculate the allocation of proceeds and concluded that the approach taken Mails Mount Pleasant site comprising the Phoenix Place and Calthorpe Street was appropriate.
plots for a total gross consideration of 193.5 million.
The sale of the Phoenix Place plot has been recognised in the current accounting year, whereas the sale of the Calthorpe Street site will be recognised upon completion of certain enabling works.
Management have applied judgement in allocating the transaction proceeds between the two plots on a different basis to the schedule of cash receipts agreed with the purchaser.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 71 Royal Mail plc | Audit and Risk Committee report Risk management and internal Royal Mail governance and three lines of defence control overview The Board collectively, including the Royal Mail plc Board Committee members, believes that effective risk management and a sound control environment are fundamental to the Group.
The Code requires the Board to maintain sound risk management and internal control Chief Executives Committee Audit and Risk Committee systems, to review their effectiveness at least annually and to report on this review Risk Management to shareholders.
A sound system of internal Committee control depends on a thorough and regular evaluation of the nature and extent to which the Group is exposed to risk.
Senior Management The Groups risk management and internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
Taking on manageable risk is an inherent part of First line Second line Third line undertaking the commercial activities of Operational and business Internal monitoring and Independent assurance the Group.
The system can only provide management assurance mechanisms reasonable, not absolute, assurance against Independent evaluation of the Primary business-as-usual Internal monitoring and adequacy and effectiveness of material misstatement or loss.
controls over the risks to oversight of the fi first line, risk management, control and the business, located in the through regular reviews, governance processes by IA There is an ongoing process for identifying, day-to-day operation.
assessments and dedicated and RM and other assurance oversight functions.
providers external to the evaluating and managing the principal risks business.
faced by the Group in accordance with the guidance detailed by the Code.
These include 1 RCSA Monitoring and reporting of risks and internal controls financial, operational and compliance 1 Risk & Control Self-Assessment risks, and risks to reputation.
The process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
In addition, the Directors carry out a robust risk assessment of the principal risks facing Role of the Committee in assessing the principal risks the Group as set out on pages 40-45.
These The Committee routinely assessed the risks that might impact Review of principal include those principal risks that threaten the achievement of the Business Plan, including consideration risk areas the business model, future performance, of whether these should be categorised as a principal risk to solvency and liquidity of the Group.
These the business see Principal Risks on pages 40-45.
Committee reviews have been informed by the financial discussions on risk also covered new and emerging risks evaluation of severe but plausible scenarios and the interrelationships between the significant risks to of our principal risks.
This has also been the business.
used to support our Viability Statement on page 46.
In particular, the Committee reviewed changes to the Group Risk Profile on a quarterly basis and held deep dive Internal control framework discussions of principal risk areas with risk owners.
The The Group has in place an internal control Committee holds the business to account for the management framework in relation to the Groups of risk and operation of control across the Group.
financial reporting process and the Groups process for preparing consolidated Deep dive discussions During the year, deep dive risk discussions included: accounts.
This framework includes an revenue diversification: established organisational structure with clear lines of responsibilities, required pace and level of cost reduction: approval levels and delegated authorities.
parcels risk management: It also includes policies and procedures to GDPR: ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded economic environment: accurately.
Robust quarterly business business continuity and disruption: and unit performance reviews by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer executive talent.
and a rigorous preparation process for the consolidated financial results including technical and disclosure reviews are also part of the framework.
72 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Lines of Defence Governance Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Risk management framework operation of risk management and control an independent accounting firm processes on a cyclical basis.
appointed by Ofcom as part of Royal The Group-wide risk management Mails Designated Universal Service framework includes risk governance, 2.
Assurance from internal audit Provider condition requirements.
risk identification, measurement and IA and RM provide independent assurance management, and risk reporting, and The Universal Service Obligation daily to the Committee, Executive Management sets out the top-down and bottom-up collections and deliveries performance and the Board on the effectiveness of the approach to risk identification for the Group.
reporting and methodology is assured internal control system and elements of the by an independent accounting risk management process.
This includes During the year, the business has: firm appointed by Royal Mail as compliance with the Risk Management part of Royal Mails designated assessed its approach to risk Mandatory Standards and validation of Universal Service.
management in line with the Code mitigation plans for Group level risks.
IA and requirements, reviewed its Risk RM establish and agree with the Committee In the carrying out of these activities, Management Policy and continued an annual plan of assignments and activities the Board considers it has fulfilled its to strengthen the management and covering the whole Group, including GLS, obligations under the Code in respect of risk monitoring of risk within the Group based on discussions with the Board and management and internal controls.
Further including strengthening the Risk & Control Management.
This also takes into account details of the Principal Risks and how they Self-Assessment RCSA process: and known issues in the business, areas of are managed and mitigated can be found on importance to the delivery of the Business continued its emerging risk identification pages 40-45.
Plan, areas subject to strong or emerging process through regular structured regulation or legislation, or specific issues in dialogue with subject matter experts the industry.
During the year, the Committee across the business.
evaluated the performance of IA and RM.
The Groups approach to risk management It concluded that the function continued to is based on the underlying principle of line be effective.
management accountability for effective The IA work programme during 2017-18 implementation of internal controls to included more than 30 risk-based reviews manage risk as illustrated below.
in the UK and over 140 reviews in GLS, covering both depots and head office.
The Speak up line programme was focused towards the key Arrangements are in place to enable business priorities and included: employees to raise concerns about potential wrongdoings in confidence and to ensure business transformation and key independent investigation of such matters.
programme reviews, including PDA During the year, Compliance reported to the Service Transformation, Parcels Committee on the number of cases received systems programme activity and and an analysis of the outcomes through identity-based products: the Employee Confidential Disclosure major business process reviews EDC Committee.
including data loss prevention, Assessing the effectiveness of payroll, aviation security, operational the system of risk management compliance and IT disaster recovery: and internal control continued rolling programme of In addition to the specific constitution, review of the basic business controls meetings, reliance on experts, and focus and independent validations related areas highlighted above, the Committee to the management of Group-level uses a number of mechanisms to help it to risks: and arrive at its conclusions on the effectiveness of the system of risk management conformance of key units functions and internal control in the business.
to defined Risk Management These include: Mandatory Standards.
Risk governance External audits and reviews take place The Board has delegated responsibility for during the year to provide Management, specific review of risk and control processes the Board and Ofcom with assurance on to the Committee, and the Committee, specific matters.
The following activities in turn, is supported by the RMC to help are included: discharge its duties.
The RMC meets to promote and support the establishment, The external auditor performs a communication and embedding of risk statutory year-end audit.
It also seeks to ensure that risks that The external auditor performs an are significant at Group level are being audit of the regulatory accounts as effectively managed.
The RMC oversees part of the Universal Service Provider and evaluates a bottom-up assessment accounting requirements.
of risks on a quarterly basis.
It receives The externally measured end-to-end presentations from business units on the Quality of Service is audited by Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 73
