66 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board has appointed Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees all The role of the Board of which complied with the provisions of the Code during the year.
Copies of the The Board is principally concerned with the overall leadership, strategy and terms of reference for all Committees are available from the Groups Company development of the Group in order to promote success for the benefit of Secretary at Sapphire House, Crown Way, Rushden, Northamptonshire its stakeholders as a whole within a framework of effective controls which NN10 6FB Registered Office or can be found on the Groups website at enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Groups strategic www.
objectives, ensures that the necessary resources are in place to meet those objectives, reviews management performance and ensures that high ethical The Board meets at least six times each year with at least one meeting standards of behaviour are followed.
being combined with a visit to one of the Companys local sites, providing an opportunity to meet the local management teams and see different parts In its decision-making processes, the Board takes into account the likely of the business.
One meeting a year is also dedicated to the discussion of consequences of any decision in the long term, the interests of the Groups Group strategy.
The number of Board and Committee meetings held during employees, relationships with suppliers and customers, and the impact of the the year and attendance by their members is given in the table on page 68.
Groups operations on the community and the environment and maintaining Those directors who are unable to attend a meeting receive the agenda and RPCs reputation for high standards of business conduct.
meeting papers and provide the Chairman with their comments in advance of A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes: the meeting.
Divisional Chief Executives are invited to present to the Board on divisional strategy and other key aspects of their business from time to time.
n approval of the Groups objectives, strategic plans and annual budgets: n authorisation of material acquisitions, disposals, capital investments, credit facilities, contracts and transactions: n approving changes to the Groups capital structure, listing, legal and organisational structure: n approval of financial reports, dividend policy and communication with shareholders and the market: n monitoring the Groups management, operating and financial performance: n review of risk assessments and the effectiveness of internal controls: n responsibility for Board membership and appointments, directors remuneration and contracts and remuneration policy: and n Group corporate governance and approval of Group policies.
Matters not specifically reserved for the Board and the day-to-day operations ofthe Group are delegated to management.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Governance CHAIRMAN CHIEF SENIOR NONEXECUTIVE INDEPENDENT EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Overall leadership, strategy and development of the Group NOMINATION AUDIT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Reviews the size, composition Reviews and challenges Sets and reviews remuneration and balance of the Board and financial reporting and policy for the executive leads recruitment processes accounting policies.
Reviews directors, Chairman and internal control and the certain members of senior external auditor management Read more on page 72 Read more on page 74 Read more on page 78 EXTENDED GROUP EXECUTIVE Knowledge sharing for all Divisional Chief Executives and key functional heads DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT Delegated responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group Division of responsibilities The Senior Independent Director Martin Towers was the Senior Independent Director throughout the year Chairman and Chief Executive under review and up to the date of this report.
As part of his role Martin The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are clearly defined and set was available to meet with major shareholders on request and to enable out in a written statement on the division of responsibilities that has been shareholders to voice any concerns that cannot be raised through the normal approved by the Board.
investor communication channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director.
Martin has also provided support for the Chairman on Board matters as Jamie Pike, as Chairman, is primarily responsible for the leadership and and when necessary.
effective running of the Board and its decision-making processes, for setting the highest standards of integrity and probity, its agenda and the style and tone of As previously noted and subject to her re-election at the AGM in July, Lynn Board discussions.
The Board considered that on appointment, Jamie Pike met Drummond will be taking over the role of Senior Independent Director when the independence criteria set out in provision B.
The Board is Martin leaves the Board.
Details concerning her appointment can be found in satisfied that Jamies other commitments do not interfere with the performance the Nomination Committee report on page 72.
Following these changes, it was of his duties for RPC.
agreed that Martin and Lynn would jointly manage the annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
During the year the Chairman informally discussed a number of matters with the other non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
Pim Vervaat, Chief Executive, is responsible for the day-to-day running of the Groups business, except for matters specifically reserved for the Board as a whole.
He develops and proposes Company strategy and commercial objectives in consultation with the Board, and implements decisions of the Board and its Committees.
68 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Nomination Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Jamie Pike 7 7 1 1 N A N A Pim Vervaat 7 7 N A N A N A Simon Kesterton 7 7 N A N A N A Martin Towers 7 7 1 1 3 3 5 5 Lynn Drummond 7 7 1 1 3 3 5 5 Ros Rivaz 6 7 1 1 3 3 5 5 Kevin Thompson 4 4 0 0 2 2 3 3 Godwin Wong 7 7 1 1 N A N A Appointed 7 September 2017.
No meetings of the Nomination Committee were held beyond date of Kevins appointment and 31 March 2018.
Non-executive directors are appointed to the Board for terms of three years The non-executive directors or less, subject to annual re-election, but the Board may terminate their At the date of the completion of this report the Company has five non-executive appointment without notice or compensation at any time.
The Board is directors, whose role, alongside their general duties and responsibilities, is to: responsible for the appointment or, subject to effective performance and n constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy: commitment, re-appointment of non-executive directors and for setting the level of fees they receive in return for their services.
A rigorous review of n scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and performance, taking into account the need for progressively refreshing the objectives and monitor the reporting of performance: Board, is conducted when a non-executive director is proposed for reappointment on completion of two terms of three years.
Non-executive directors n ensure the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and may not normally serve longer than nine years.
systems of risk management are robust and defensible: n determine appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and Although the Companys Articles of Association the Articles contain provisions have a prime role in appointing, and where necessary, removing executive governing the election and re-election of directors, the Board has adopted a directors and in succession planning: policy of annual re-election in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Consequently, all the directors in office at the date of this report, excluding n uphold high standards of integrity and probity and support the Chairman and Martin Towers, will submit themselves for election, in the case of Kevin the other directors in instilling the appropriate culture, values and behaviour Thompson, or re-election, in the case of all others, on an individual basis at the in the boardroom and beyond: forthcoming AGM.
n insist on receiving high-quality information sufficiently in advance of Board The Board confirms that each director seeking election or re-election at this meetings: and years AGM, continues to be effective and demonstrates independence of n take into account the views of shareholders and other stakeholders character and judgement and commitment to the role.
Therefore their election or where appropriate.
re-election is recommended by the Board.
Effectiveness Board Composition and Independence There are a total of eight directors on the Board.
Biographical details, Committee memberships and significant external commitments are shown on pages 64 and 65.
Changes to such commitments are reported to the Board as they arise.
Kevin Thompson was appointed to the Board on 7 September 2017 and took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2018.
The non-executive directors bring valuable knowledge, a broad range of experience and strong, independent character and judgement to the Boards decision-making process.
Excluding Godwin Wong, the Board remains of the view that all other non-executive directors can be considered independent under the Code.
It is the view of the Board that Godwin Wong does not meet the material business relationship criteria for independence under Code provision B.
1.1. as he was a director and business adviser to Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd which was acquired by RPC on 2 June 2014.
There are no other relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Governance What the Board did during the year Governance, internal controls Financial performance Strategy and other and risk Board matters n Principal risks n Annual and Half Year results and dividends n Strategy n Health & Safety n Market and broker updates n Board composition n Corporate governance reform n Capital structure and funding n Key investments including acquisitions n Regulatory legal updates n Annual budget n AGM resolutions and voting n 3 year plan n Board evaluation n Defined benefit pension liabilities n General Data Protection Regulation The Remuneration Committee has the responsibility for approving executive Activity during the year directors service contracts.
Details of these are given in the Directors The Board considers a number of regular standing items at each meeting.
Copies of executive directors service contracts These include reports from the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance and terms and conditions of appointment for non-executive directors are Director as well as updates on Health and Safety, integration programmes, available for inspection at the Registered Office and prior to the AGM.
strategy, corporate development and investor relations.
The Company Secretary provides information on important legal and governance developments to assist Directors conflicts of interest the Board in satisfying their duties.
Under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006, a director must avoid a situation The Board will also consider specific items as circumstances dictate, including where he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or those that are considered important for the successful management of the possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests a situational conflict.
business and to satisfy the obligations of the Board.
This is in addition to a duty to disclose any interest in an existing or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company a transactional conflict.
In May 2017, the Board held its annual away day meeting at RPC bpi In accordance with the CA 2006, the Articles contain a provision giving directors agriculture in Belgium.
This site had been acquired in 2016 as part of the who have no interest in the matter, authority to approve such situational acquisition of British Polythene Industries PLC.
The Board had a detailed and conflicts where appropriate.
informative tour of the site, along with presentations from key members of the local management team.
A formal system and guidance for reporting any situational conflicts of interest to the Chairman and Company Secretary has been established in addition to the existing duty to notify the Board of any transactional conflicts.
Situational conflicts are considered by those directors who have no interest in the matter and they may impose conditions on any authorisation given.
Situational conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisation given are recorded in the Board minutes and a register of directors conflicts of interest.
In addition to the notification and authorisation system, the register of directors conflicts of interest is reviewed annually.
70 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Information and development Performance evaluation The Board is provided with relevant information on the activities of the Group The Board conducts an annual review of its performance and that of its in a timely manner and in a form and of a quality to stimulate debate which Committees as well as the individual directors.
As is required under the Code an enables the Board to discharge its duties.
There is a procedure for directors externally facilitated review was undertaken by Independent Audit Limited IA to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, where during the year ended 31 March 2016 with internally arranged reviews through necessary.
In addition, all Board members have access to the advice and bespoke questionnaires being carried out in intervening years.
IA did not have services of Nick Giles, the Company Secretary.
any other connection with the Company.
Nick is responsible to the Board for ensuring that procedures are followed, Evaluation for Year Ended 31 March 2017 applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for providing appropriate In common with previous years, for the year ended 31 March 2017 it was advice on all governance matters.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the agreed that the Board would utilise the online Thinking Board evaluation Company Secretarys role also includes ensuring good information flows within system, developed by IA for the Board, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination the Board, its Committees and between executive and non-executive directors Committees and individual directors.
This entailed the anonymous completion of as well as facilitating the induction of new members to the Board as required.
online questionnaires containing bespoke questions on key thematic areas.
All newly appointed directors receive a formal induction program that is tailored The questionnaires that were used were similar to those used when the to their requirements.
This ensures that they are fully aware of and understand exercise was undertaken in 2015, in order to enable comparisons to be the obligations of their role pursuant to law, relevant regulation and best made and progress to be monitored.
All directors were asked to complete practice as well as providing individuals with a detailed insight into the Groups the questionnaires in respect of the Board and the Committees.
No other business and operations.
respondents below Board level asked to participate on this occasion.
Directors will receive key information concerning the role of the Board and The directors also completed online self-assessment questionnaires in respect those matters reserved for its decision, terms of reference and membership of of their own performance which were provided to the Chairman for his review.
the Boards Committees, corporate governance policies and procedures and the latest financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented by meetings Evaluation for Year Ended 31 March 2018 with key individuals in the wider business including the executive directors and The Board is in the process of completing questionnaires containing bespoke members of the Extended Group Executive as well as through visits to operating questions on key governance areas in respect of the year under review.
locations with the opportunity to meet local management.
Directors are The Board intends to review the results at a meeting later in the year.
continually updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, corporate responsibility and sustainability The next externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise will be conducted, in matters and other changes affecting the Group, its markets, manufacturing accordance with the Code, in respect of the year ending 31 March 2019. technology, processes and the industry at scheduled Board meetings or on an ad-hoc basis as necessary.
Since joining the Board in September 2017 Kevin Thompson has spent time with the majority of the Groups Divisional management teams including in depth tours of facilities to provide real insight into the operations and structure of the business.
Access to training allows directors to develop their understanding of key issues and to keep up to date with relevant legal and regulatory developments at the Companys expense.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors keep their skills and knowledge and their familiarity with the Group up to date in order to be able to fulfil their roles on the Board and Committees.
The Company Secretary also briefs the Board on corporate governance matters and relevant changes to corporate laws and regulations where necessary, as well as facilitating professional development by circulating details of and arranging attendance at seminars if required.
Executive directors may also attend seminars on topics of particular relevance to their roles.
Board training sessions provided by the Groups lawyers are planned for the coming year.
These intend to give all members of the Board a summary of current topics as well as provide further information into some areas of particular relevance or concern.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Governance Investor relations RPC is committed to maintaining an effective dialogue with existing institutional and private investors.
com corporate investors allows access to Company information, Annual Reports and results presentations.
Directors, normally the Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, hold regular meetings with institutional investors at which the Groups past performance and strategy may be discussed.
An Investor Relations Director was appointed during the year in order to provide additional focus on investor relations issues and support for the executive directors.
Private shareholders can raise questions through the Investor Relations Director or the Company Secretary.
Market Communications The Board is aware of its obligations under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR and the Market Abuse Regulations.
RPC continues to publish trading updates following the removal of the requirement to provide interim management statements.
All announcements that have been made by the Company and published through the Regulatory Information Service can be found at http: www.
Board Communications The Board is provided with brokers reports, surveys on shareholders views and feedback from shareholder meetings at regular intervals.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director report on all investor relations activity that has taken place between Board meetings and details on the Companys share register and major shareholders is included with the papers at scheduled Board meetings.
Investor Meetings During the year the Chairman has discussed RPCs governance and strategy with major shareholders and reported any issues or concerns raised at these meetings to the Board.
Non-executive directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and expect to attend meetings at their request.
Contact with institutional investors, financial analysts, brokers and the press is controlled and procedures are in place to ensure the proper disclosure of inside information in compliance with the appropriate laws and regulations.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of the AGM and related papers will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All directors attend the AGM if at all possible and therefore in normal circumstances the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
Information incorporated by reference The Chairmans introduction on page 62, the Audit Committee report on pages 74 to 77 and the other statutory information section on pages 91 to 93 are incorporated into this corporate governance statement by reference.
