CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction from the Chairman On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce Rotork's Corporate Governance Report for 2018.
The aim of this report is to provide a clear and comprehensive explanation of Rotork's governance framework and how it was applied day-to-day during the year under review, with particular emphasis on explaining how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the 'Code' have been applied across our Group.
As a Board, we have continued to focus strongly on broader strategic issues this year.
In this respect we have reviewed and supported the completion of the Group-wide business reviews and the subsequent implementation of the Growth Acceleration Programme, including the approval of major capital investment and restructuring programmes.
We have received regular in-depth progress reports and presentations from the Chief Executive and from those executives responsible for leading the various elements of the Growth Acceleration Programme during 2018 and this will Dates of Board meetings continue throughout 2019.
During this period of change, strong corporate governance is vital to ensure our business is protected in JAN FEB MAR the long term and the interests of all stakeholders are properly taken into account.
r. The Board also continued to work on ensuring that the Group's risk management processes remain robust and continue to develop APR MAY JUN in response to Rotork's strategy and the wider market and regulatory environment.
The Board held a risk appetite workshop in April 2018 and have taken an active approach to ensuring that r. r. the Board's risk appetite is fully reflected in the Group's policies r. and procedures and in its practices.
JUL AUG SEP The Board has regard to the interests of other stakeholders of the Company in its decision making, in addition to its shareholders.
r. Details of how we interact with the wider communities in which we operate, and our environmental impact, are set out in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report see pages 44 to 45 and 48 OCT NOV DEC to 51.
In addition, details of our relationships with our suppliers are set out on page 43.
The Board has approved the appointment of Tim Cobbold as a designated Non-Executive Director to support r. r. r. increased engagement with employees under the recommendations of the updated Corporate Governance Code.
This will complement the widespread employee engagement forums that have been established over the last year to support the roll out of our Growth Acceleration Programme and to solicit feedback and input from employee groups.
An Internal Communications Director has also been appointed to support this.
In respect of Rotork's employees, we have supported a full review in 2018 of Rotork's culture, talent development, succession planning, performance approach and diversity and have had a number of presentations on this topic from the Chief Executive and the Group HR Director.
Further details of actions arising out of this review and of how we have considered the interests of our employees during the year are set out on page 40.
Greater workplace diversity, has been a particular area of focus for the Board.
As a result, diversity has been made a standing item on the Board agenda and in December the Board approved a new Diversity Plan for the Group, with clear actions and supporting key performance indicators.
54 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 As previously reported, Kevin Hostetler joined the Board on In 2018, Rotork was subject to the 2016 UK Corporate Governance 12 February 2018, becoming Chief Executive on 12 March 2018, Code and I am happy to report that Rotork complied with the Code and I reverted to my previous role as Non-Executive Chairman.
in all respects, save that, following Peter France's resignation as On 1 December 2018, we welcomed Tim Cobbold and Chief Executive in July 2017, I acted as Executive Chairman until Ann Christin Andersen to the Board as non-executive directors Kevin Hostetler became Chief Executive on 12 March 2018, following and also to each of the three principal Committees.
Gary Bullard which I resumed my previous role as Non-Executive Chairman.
will not be seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2019 and Tim Cobbold will succeed Gary as We note that from 1 January 2019 an updated version of UK the Chair of the Remuneration Committee from that date.
Corporate Governance Code applies to Rotork.
Whilst we have reported against the 2016 version of the Code in this report, As a Board we regularly review and discuss our ways of working during the year the Board and Committees have taken into and our effectiveness.
In 2018, we performed a review of our consideration the updates made to the Code and have taken effectiveness via a Board questionnaire facilitated by the Company appropriate action to ensure Rotork's readiness to comply with Secretary.
Further details are set out at page 58. the updated Code during 2019.
Martin Lamb Chairman 4 March 2019 Financial Received regular financial performance updates from the Finance Director.
Approved 2017 Annual Report & Accounts and Annual General Meeting AGM business.
Approved 2018 interim report and trading updates.
Approved 2017 final dividend recommendation and 2018 interim dividend declaration.
Received a presentation from the Group Treasurer.
Other Recruited and embedded Kevin Hostetler as Chief Executive.
Approved appointment of Ann Christin Andersen and Tim Cobbold on recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Reviewed plans to redevelop the Group's Bath headquarters, engineering centre of excellence and factory.
Reviewed and received presentations from the Group HR.
Director on the Group's diversity plan and established diversity z l as a standing Board agenda item.
"z Received regular briefings on the Group's readiness for Brexit. """
Internal controls and risk management E Received regular reports on risk including quarterly executive m z risk summary..... V, Received regular reports on litigation and regulatory matters.
Held a risk appetite workshop and reviewed the Group's risk register.
Received updates on the Group's third party selling arrangements review.
Received updates on Whistleblowing reports.
Business review and strategy Governance and stakeholders Received regular performance and business updates from the Reviewed feedback from institutional shareholders.
Approved updated schedule of matters reserved for Board and z Set the Group's strategy and vision.
terms of reference for Board Committees for new Corporate - Governance Code.
Received regular updates on the Growth Acceleration z Programme.
Approved the 2018 Modern Slavery Statement.
"0 ""' :::: Received presentations from divisional and Group business Received regular updates on health and safety matters across functions to consolidate understanding and awareness the Group."
6 of activities and performance within the relevant divisions and z Received papers and updates on the Group's readiness to business functions.
comply with the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED UK Corporate Governance Code compliance statement Rotork's female representation on the Board was 33% as at The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the 'Code' is the 31 December 2018.
Once Gary Bullard steps down after the standard against which we measured ourselves in 2018.
The Code Annual General Meeting, female representation will rise to 38%.
is available to download at www.
In 2018 an updated This exceeds the updated Hampton-Alexander Review target of version of the Code was published and applied to Rotork pie from 33% female representation on the Board by 2020.
We will report on our compliance with the updated 2018 version of the Code in our 2019 Annual Report.
The biographies of the directors and details of the membership of the Board committee are set out on pages 52 to 53.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2018, Rotork pie fully complied with the Code, save that up to 12 March 2018 it was not All directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM in line in compliance with Code Provision A.
2.1, which provides that the with the Code.
roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should not be performed by the same person.
Martin Lamb assumed the full time role of Executive Chairman on an interim basis following the announcement of the resignation of Peter France on 28 July 2017.
Length of tenure of On 12 March 2018 Kevin Hostetler took up the post of Chief independent non-executive Executive and Martin Lamb reverted to his previous role as directors as at Non-Executive Chairman.
31 December 2018 The following section on pages 56 to 59 contains a summary of 0-3 years the system of corporate governance adopted by Rotork.
3-6 years 6-9 years The Board The Board has a duty to promote the long-term success of Rotork generating value for its shareholders and contributing to wider society.
This is accomplished by entrepreneurial leadership, within a framework of prudent and effective controls and with proper Balance of independent and consideration of wider stakeholder interests.
Its role therefore non-executive directors as includes approval of strategy, risk reviews, finance matters, at 31 December 2018 employee matters and internal control and risk management.
Non-executive directors The terms of appointment of the directors are available for Executive directors inspection during business hours at the registered office of Rotork Non-executive chairman pie and will also be available at the AGM.
Board composition Rotork is led by an effective Board which currently consists of nine members: the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and six independent non-executive directors.
The non-executive Balance between male and directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Upon the female directors on the Board completion of this term, the appointment is reviewed and, as at 31 December 2018 if appropriate, extended.
Male Rotork Board members come from a variety of professional Female backgrounds including engineering, information technology, legal, finance and international sales and collectively possess significant managerial experience, as well as experience of being company directors of other public limited companies.
The appointment of Ann Christin Andersen and Tim Cobbold as non-executive directors in December 2018 has further strengthened the mix of skills on the Board.
Following a rigorous review, the Board considers all non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement from Rotork.
Details of the length of tenure of the independent non-executive directors is set out opposite.
Gary Bullard is the longest serving non-executive director and, as he will have been in office for nine years in June 2019, he will not seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2019.
56 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors' attendance at Board and Committee meetings How the Board operates effectively during 2018 Board activities As part of Rotork's Board effectiveness, day-to-day responsibility No.
of meetings for the running of the Company is delegated to executive Audit Remuneration Nomination management.
However, there are a number of matters where, Board Committee Committee Committee because of their importance to the Group, it is not considered Lucinda Bell 8 6 4 2 appropriate to do this.
The Board therefore has a formal and Gary Bullard 8 6 4 2 documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
6 ii 2 ii 2 ii Jonathan Davis 8 This schedule can be found on the Company's website at Peter Dilnot 8 6 4 2 www.
com en investors index theboard.
This was updated 6 ii 4 ii Kevin Hostetler 8 2 for the updated Code in December 2018.
Sally James 8 6 4 2 6 ii 4 ii Martin Lamb 8 2 In 2018, the number of formal Board meetings were reduced from Ann Cristin Andersen il 0 nine to six.
These meetings are supplemented with five Board Tim Cobbold il 0 update calls.
There were also two short Board meetings during the year to approve the Group's April and November trading Maximum number of statements.
The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, meetings 8 6 4 2 ensures that the Board agenda and all relevant information is circulated to the Board members sufficiently in advance of the i Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 December 2018. meeting.
The format and content of management reporting packs ii Attending by invitation.
are kept under review to ensure that the non-executive directors receive focused, concise and timely information from executive Roles and responsibilities management.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary discuss There is a documented clear division of responsibilities between the agenda in detail ahead of every meeting and hold a review the Chairman and the Chief Executive to ensure that there is a meeting ahead of each Board meeting.
balance of power and authority between leadership of the Board and executive leadership.
As set out on page 55, Martin Lamb At least once annually, the Board travels to and meets at one of carried out the Chief Executive role on a temporary basis following Rotork's locations other than its head office in Bath.
This allows the resignation of Peter France in July 2017.
He resumed his role as the Board, and, in particular, the non-executive directors, the Non-Executive Chairman on 12 March 2018 when Kevin Hostetler opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of other Rotork became Chief Executive.
businesses and their markets and to interact with local management and staff, as well as to view new capital investments All directors are entitled to seek independent, professional advice at and acquisitions.
In June 2018, the Board visited Rotork's the Company's expense, and arranged by the Company Secretary, operations in Houston, USA.
in order to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Rotork maintains appropriate directors' and officers' insurance cover.
All non-executive directors constructively challenge executive management at Board meetings and are entitled to unfettered access to information and management across the Group.
Rotork's executive directors understand the distinction between their roles as executive managers and as Board directors.
Board meetings held outside the UK in past five years.
"z l z "" E m z.... V, 0 "" :::: z - z 0 Location of Board meetings ""' :::: 2018 - Houston, USA 6 z 2017 - Rotterdam, The Netherlands 2016 - Lucca, Italy 2015 - Shanghai, China 2014- Winston-Salem, USA ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED At Board meetings, the Board receives presentations from senior The systems which were in place for the year under review, and up management."
The principal purpose of the presentations is to to the date of approval of the report, are in accordance with the consolidate the Board's understanding of the Group's plans and Code and the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control operations, and in particular current strategic and operational and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
issues facing divisional and business functional management.
The presentations are structured so that the Board has the opportunity Main features of the Group's risk management process to ask questions and constructively challenge senior management An established risk review process at a divisional level results in a at their presentations.
Management presentations normally take 'bottom up' assessment of the risks facing the Group.
These are place at the start of the meeting so that any issues raised can be consolidated before the 'top down' review is performed by considered in wider Board discussions, particularly around strategy management and then by the Board to ensure the risk population and risk.
In June 2018, the Board dedicated an extra day before is complete and adequately assessed.
the June Board meeting to receive presentations from senior management on each of the Growth Acceleration Programme An Executive Risk Summary is presented to the Board on a workstreams.
This includes a set of Key Risk Indicators which provide a means of monitoring the Group's risk exposures and The executive directors present to the Board the content of focuses the Board on risks where the Group exceeds, or will preliminary and half year results announcements and the Board potentially exceed, risk appetite.
Quarterly reporting is also considers trading updates.
supplemented as necessary by more detailed monthly reporting to the Board by the executive management team on new or evolving Induction and development risks, the effectiveness of existing mitigations and plans to further New Board members receive a suitable tailored induction, strengthen mitigations.
facilitated by the Company Secretary.
This includes a combination of reading materials, external and internal training, meetings with Further details of the Group's internal control and risk management senior management and site visits.
systems and the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group during 2017, including the Board's Directors are encouraged to continually update their professional risk appetite, are contained on pages 22 to 28. skills and knowledge.
During 2018, development activities for the directors included the participation in external training seminars.
Main features of the Group's internal control systems All the non-executive directors are members of the Deloitte All members of the Board receive Audit Committee papers and Academy which provides a wide range of training opportunities prior meeting minutes, which contain the Audit Committee's for FTSE 350 board directors.
assessment of the effectiveness of the Group's risk management and internal control systems.
All non-executive directors are The level and nature of training given to the Board is considered at members of the Audit Committee and the executive directors least annually by the Chairman.
Performance evaluations Key elements of the framework which enables Rotork to respond The Board is self-critical, and is continuously looking to improve its appropriately to financial, operational, compliance and any other performance.
Having carried out externally facilitated Board risks, include: evaluations in 2016 and 2017, the formal evaluation of the Board's Group wide policies and procedures, including authority levels and Committees' performance was carried out in late 2018 by and division of responsibilities.
means of a detailed questionnaire created internally by the Training of staff on policies and procedures relevant to their Company Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and Chairs roles.
This was completed by all directors.
Ongoing monitoring of business performance, Key Risk Indicators and levels of compliance with procedures.
The results of this questionnaire showed broad and material A formal schedule of reserved matters for the Board, including improvements made in those areas for development identified in responsibility for reviewing Group strategy.
the Board's 2017 effectiveness review, including in particular in the A formal whistleblowing policy with an external whistleblowing quality of executive reporting to the Board and the enhancement hotline.
of the Group's risk management framework.
Areas identified for Robust assurance processes and controls over financial additional focus include talent and succession planning and further reporting and health and safety procedures.
development of the Group's long-term strategy.
Actions will be Regular controls confirmations from the business.
taken to address these areas throughout 2019.
Throughout 2018, the arrangement with PwC to provide internal The Chairman's performance was also assessed using a audit services has continued, with the function being led by an questionnaire, with a follow up meeting with the Non-Executive experienced Head of Risk and Internal Audit from PwC.
Directors led by the Senior Independent Director.
This feedback was used by the Senior Independent Director to discuss with the As set out in Strategic Report, the continuous improvement and Chairman his performance in December 2018. execution of a comprehensive and robust system of risk management is a high priority for Rotork.
Many of the principal Risk management and internal controls risks are aligned with areas of accelerated growth and in a number The Board is responsible for Rotork's system of risk management of areas the risk trend is increasing.
In that context, the Audit and internal control and the Board's review of the system's Committee has sought information and insight over the quality of effectiveness is completed with the assistance of the Audit the control environment and three lines of defence, together with Committee.
recommendations for improvements to controls from both internal and external audit.
In response, a series of measures and actions During 2018, the Board regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the have been agreed by management to further enhance the control Group's risk management and internal control systems.
Further environment including improvements to accountability, consistency details of reports undertaken and reviewed are set out in the and the development of a stronger second line of defence.
This Audit Committee report on pages 62 and 63. work will be a mix of immediate actions mitigating identified risks as well as longer term improvements aligned to the investment in 58 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 the new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system.
In addition, Rotork makes constructive use of its AGM as an opportunity for the process for the follow up of recommendations for the Board to communicate with, and answer questions from, improvement to controls which management are charged with shareholders who attend in person.
The entire Board is normally implementing has been strengthened.
available during the meeting, and for lunch following the meeting, to allow direct interaction between the directors and the In November 2018, a new in-house Risk and Internal Audit shareholders.
This year, Rotork will again adopt automatic poll Manager was recruited who has brought some excellent voting at its AGM in order to better reflect the views of experience to the team, working alongside the PwC team to shareholders: previously voting on resolutions was generally support ongoing delivery and planned developments in risk undertaken on a show of hands at the AGM itself.
Automatic poll management and internal audit.
Staffing of the central risk and voting ensures that all votes cast in person or by proxy are taken internal audit team will be kept under review during 2019. into account on a particular resolution.
As part of the Finance team's response to support the Growth Rotork also maintains a comprehensive investor relations section Acceleration Programme, and in light of the above, the on its website which provides a variety of resources for investors organisational structure and reporting lines are being revised to including current webcasts, presentations and press releases as bring greater accountability and clarity.
well as annual interim reports.
The website can be accessed at www.
Whistleblowing All whistleblowing concerns reported through Rotork's Electronic communications are also used by Rotork to whistleblowing policy and procedures which are described on communicate with its shareholders.
All shareholders can request to receive the Annual Report & Accounts in electronic form rather page 42 are investigated thoroughly following the initial assessment process and reported to the Board.
The Board reviews than in hard copy form.
Any shareholders wishing to receive the volume and nature of the cases reported, the manner in which corporate documents electronically can do this by registering for the service at www.
co. uk and clicking on 'Register' these have been investigated and the actions arising from any investigation.
under the 'Shareview Portfolio' section.
Rotork also makes available electronic proxy appointment for shareholders who wish to appoint a proxy on line to vote at the Company's AGM.
Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders is a priority for Rotork and the Company openly engages in a regular dialogue with its major Board Committees shareholders.
In 2018, the Board, and in particular the Chief The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Executive and Finance Director, have engaged with shareholders Each Committee has formal, written terms of reference which in a number of ways including: are available to download from the Rotork website at Hosting and participating in roadshows, both in the UK and www.
com en investors index committees.
have at least three independent non-executive directors within Hosting webcasts and conference calls.
The Company Secretary advises and acts as Attending shareholder events.
In addition to the principal Committees outlined above, the Board Arranging ad hoc one to one and group meetings and calls also maintains a Disclosure Committee to ensure that Rotork with shareholders.
complies with its obligations in relation to the control and.
disclosure of inside information under the EU Market Abuse z A new Investor Relations Director joined Rotork in February 2019 Regulation.
Membership of the Disclosure Committee currently z r, to increase the resources available to support existing and comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the potential shareholders and enhance our reporting to shareholders.
Company Secretary and it operates under formal, written terms of reference.
E During the year we maintained an expanded investor m z communications programme.
Shortly after Rotork's 2017 results The Committees have authority to take external, independent.... V, announcement, Kevin Hostetler embarked on a shareholder professional advice at Rotork's expense for matters relating to the roadshow, meeting all Rotork's top investors to explain his discharge of their duties.
background and plans for the Group.
Subsequently and throughout the year, Kevin Hostetler and Jonathan Davis have Chairman of the Board and Chairs of the Committees as carried out a number of further roadshows, meetings and calls, at 31 December 2018 updating both current and potential investors on the progress of our Growth Acceleration Programme.
Finally, the Board engaged an external consultant to conduct research with Rotork top shareholders, to better understand perceptions of Rotork and any 8 :::: potential room for improvement.
"The results of this review were presented to the Board in October and key recommendations will z - be followed up on throughout 2019. z 0 Audit Remuneration Nomination ""' The Chairman ensures that all directors are made aware of major :::: Committee Committee Committee shareholder issues and concerns by ensuring the Board receives 0 Lucinda Bell Gary Bullard Martin Lamb z reports on meetings with analysts and shareholders."
In addition, the Board receives reports from its brokers which give anonymised feedback from investors.
