Governance at a glance Board of directors Our Board Chairman Howard Davies The Board has thirteen directors comprising the Chairman, two executive directors and ten independent non-executive directors, one of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
Biographies for each director can be found on pages 47 and 48.
Executive directors The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of RBS and delivery Ross McEwan of sustainable shareholder value.
Its role is to provide leadership of RBS within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risks to be assessed Katie Murray and managed.
In 2018, the Board and committee evaluation process was conducted externally Non-executive directors by Independent Board Evaluation.
Frank Dangeard Our Board commitees Group Performance and Alison Davis In order to provide effective Remuneration Committee oversight and leadership, the Responsible for approving Patrick Flynn Board has established a number of remuneration policy and reviewing the Board committees with particular effectiveness of its implementation.
The work of the It also considers senior executive Board committees is discussed in remuneration and makes Robert Gillespie their individual reports.
The terms of recommendations to the Board on the reference for each of these committees remuneration of executive directors.
Brendan Nelson is available on rbs.
Group Nominations and Governance Baroness Noakes The full Governance report is on pages Committee 47 to 88 of the 2018 Annual Report and Assists the Board in the selection and Mike Rogers Accounts.
It reviews the structure, size and composition of Mark Seligman Group Audit Committee the Board, and the membership and Senior Independent Director Assists the Board in discharging its chairmanship of Board committees.
responsibilities for monitoring the It considers succession planning taking Dr Lena Wilson quality of the financial statements of into account the skills and expertise RBS.
It reviews the accounting policies, which will be needed on the Board financial reporting and regulatory in the future.
Its remit also includes Company Secretary compliance practices of RBS and RBSs governance oversight.
systems and standards of internal Aileen Taylor controls, and monitors the work of Technology and Innovation internal audit and external audit.
Committee Assists the Board in overseeing Group Board Risk Committee and monitoring the execution of Provides oversight and advice to the RBSs strategic direction in relation Board on current and potential future to technology and innovation.
risk exposures of RBS and future risk strategy.
It reviews RBSs compliance Group Executive Committee UK Corporate Governance Code with approved risk appetite and The Board is supported by the Group Throughout the year ended 31 oversees the operation of the RBS Executive Committee, comprising December 2018, RBS has complied Policy Framework and submissions the executive directors and the with all of the provisions of the UK to regulators.
It supports Corporate Governance Code issued the Chief Executive in managing by the Financial Reporting Council Group Sustainable Banking RBSs businesses.
It is responsible for dated April 2016 except in relation Committee managing strategic, financial, capital, to provision D. 2.2 that the Group Provides support to the Board in risk and operational issues affecting Performance and Remuneration overseeing actions being taken by RBS.
It reviews and debates relevant Committee should have delegated management to run a sustainable items before consideration by responsibility for setting remuneration long term business, with specific the Board.
for the Chairman and executive focus on culture, people, customer, directors.
RBS considers that this brand and environmental social and is a matter which should rightly be ethical issues.
34 34 Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 The groups base case plan is also On the basis of this robust assessment of the UK Corporate Governance tested in a series of extreme stress of the principal risks facing the group, Code, the Board of Directors the scenarios as part of internal and the Boards review of the business Board of RBSG the group have external stress testing.
Results and strategic plans and other matters assessed the viability of the group from the stress scenarios, including considered and reviewed during the taking into account the current managements response, are used as year, and the results of the stress position of the group, the Boards part of the Internal Capital Adequacy tests undertaken, the Board has a assessment of the groups prospects, Assessment Process ICAAP and reasonable expectation that the group and the groups principal risks, as the Internal Liquidity Adequacy will be able to continue in operation detailed in the strategic report on Assessment Process ILAAP.
These and meet its liabilities as they fall due page 32.
The Boards assessment is processes are summarised in the over the period of the assessment.
further informed by the application of Capital and Risk Management section regulatory standards of capital and of the Annual Report & Accounts on liquidity adequacy and stress test pages 98 to 107. thresholds under extreme conditions.
Assessments of the risks of the The Board consider a period of three greatest concern are captured years to be an appropriate period through the groups processes for the assessment to be made.
This for continuously identifying and period is within the groups strategic effectively managing the principal plan and regulatory and internal stress top and emerging risks, as detailed on testing periods.
page 32 of the strategic report.
These assessments provide a view on the The groups business and strategic impact of the top risks crystallising, plans provide long term direction and both individually and in combination.
are reviewed on, at least, an annual basis, including multi-year forecasts These risks are outlined in the Risk showing the expected financial Overview and further discussed in position throughout the planning the Risk Factors, both contained in horizon.
The base case plan indicates the Annual Report & Accounts that the group will have sufficient on pages 30 to 32 and 253 to 263, capital and liquidity resources over respectively, and include political, the three year assessment period.
legal, macroeconomic, regulatory, operational and execution risks.
Wind strength increasing The demand for home-grown renewable energy continues to grow.
Which is why Triton Knoll Offshore Wind Farm Ltd matters.
With up to 90 wind turbines providing a total installed capacity of circa.
860MW, it will be capable of supplying the equivalent of over 800,000 UK households with renewable electricity a year.
Situated off the Lincolnshire coast, this consented wind farm is owned by a group of companies, with Innogy Renewables UK managing the construction, operation and maintenance works on behalf of the project partners.
Total planned investment amounts to around 2 billion.
NatWest participated in financing as part of a 15-bank lending syndicate, NatWest Markets provided risk management solutions to Innogy to address interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
We are market leaders in this growing sector.
This project is one of six offshore wind farms that we have financed in the UK in the past 2 years.
