Corporate governance Page Under the new model, the NWH Ltd board is Committee with effect from close of business the designated forum for matters relating on 31 March 2019.
Our Board 47 specifically to our ring-fenced operations, with 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and Corporate governance 49 a strong focus on the customer-facing Statutory Reporting Changes Report of the Group Nominations businesses operating within the NWH Ltd subIn July 2018 the Financial Reporting Council and Governance Committee 53 group.
It receives regular business reviews published the 2018 UK Corporate Report of the Group Audit and updates from franchise and function Committee 54 Governance Code the 2018 Code, which CEOs and also considers NWH Ltd strategy: Report of the Group Board Risk applies to accounting periods beginning on or 57 risk profile: customer, innovation and people Committee after 1 January 2019.
Having conducted a issues: regulatory submissions: financial Report of the Group Sustainable comprehensive impact analysis we believe we results: budget: and board and committee Banking Committee 60 are well placed to report on our application of appointments as they relate to the NWH Ltd Report of the Technology and the new 2018 Codes principles in our 2019 sub-group.
We have also noted the new statutory Directors Remuneration report 62 An integral part of our ring-fencing reporting requirements as set out in the Compliance report 83 governance arrangements is the appointment Companies Miscellaneous Reporting of Double Independent Non-Executive Regulations 2018 that apply to the company Report of the directors 85 Directors or DINEDs to the NWH Ltd subfor accounting periods beginning on or after 1 Statement of directors responsibilities 88 group boards and board committees.
We will make the relevant disclosures in our 2019 Annual Report and Chairmans introduction The DINEDs are independent in two respects: Accounts although we have opted for early Dear Shareholder, i independent of management as nondisclosure on certain remuneration reporting I am pleased to present the corporate executives: and ii independent of the rest of requirements which can be found in the governance report.
During 2018 the Board the Group by virtue of their NWH Ltd subDirectors Remuneration Report on page 62. considered a range of key strategic, financial, group only directorships.
They play a critical regulatory and risk matters, including: role in our ring-fencing governance structure, In conclusion, I and my fellow directors are with an enhanced role in managing any committed to observing high standards of Future strategy, including RBSs purpose conflicts which may arise between the corporate governance, integrity and and long term future, technology and interests of NWH Ltd and RBSG.
Our statement of compliance innovation attend RBSG Board meetings in an observer with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Banking structural reform capacity.
Code can be found on page 83. Dividend policy and declaration of an On 30 April 2018 Yasmin Jetha stood down Howard Davies interim dividend as a director of RBSG allowing her to assume Chairman of the Board US Department of Justice: US RMBS DINED status.
A further 3 DINEDs were 14 February 2019 investigation - final settlement appointed to the NWH Ltd sub-group boards The Board Group Pension Fund: MoU on structural with effect from 1 May: Francesca Barnes, The Board has thirteen directors comprising changes and additional related funding Graham Beale and Ian Cormack.
On 3 the Chairman, two executive directors and ten contribution December Alison Rose-Slade was appointed independent non-executive directors, one of as Deputy CEO, NatWest Holdings, and as a Risks associated with the transition of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
director of the NWH Ltd sub-group boards.
LIBOR and other IBOR rates to alternative Biographies for each director and details of risk free rates RBSs principal subsidiary entities outside the the Board committees they are members of ring-fence, including NatWest Markets Plc, Building a healthy culture can be found on pages 47 and 48.
The Board operate separate board and committee Implications of Brexit considers that the Chairman was independent meeting cycles.
In April 2018 Frank Dangeard on appointment and that all non-executive The Board also dedicated time to engagement stood down from the NWH Ltd sub-group directors are independent for the purposes of with employees, shareholders, customers and boards and assumed the role of Chairman of the Code.
other stakeholders, as set out in more detail NatWest Markets Plc.
Roles and responsibilities Other Board changes The Board Ring-Fencing Governance Penny Hughes resigned as a non-executive The Board is collectively responsible for the We also introduced some significant changes director on 30 May 2018, and Ewen long-term success of RBS and delivery of to the way our board operates.
In Q1 the Stevenson resigned as Chief Financial Officer sustainable shareholder value.
The terms of Board approved a new board and committee and director on 30 September 2018.
I would reference include a formal schedule of operating model in order to align with UK ringlike to thank Penny and Ewen for all their hard matters specifically reserved for the Boards fencing requirements effective from 1 January work and dedication to RBS during their time decision and are reviewed at least annually.
The transition towards the new model with us.
They are available on rbs.
During 2018 began in May 2018 and I am pleased to report On 1 June 2018, we were pleased to welcome an internal review confirmed that the Board that the revised operating rhythm is now Patrick Flynn to the Board.
Patricks had fulfilled its remit as set out in its terms of embedded.
Under the new arrangements, the appointment further strengthens our overall reference.
RBSG Board has adopted a revised remit board composition and supports succession aligned primarily to the legal and regulatory Board Committees planning.
obligations of a listed holding company.
This In order to provide effective oversight and includes: strategy: significant acquisitions and We were also delighted to announce the leadership, the Board has established a disposals: budget and financial results: risk appointment of Katie Murray as Executive number of Board committees with particular appetite: regulatory submissions: board and Director and Chief Financial Officer CFO responsibilities.
Refer to page 34 of the committee appointments: executive pay and with effect from 1 January 2019.
Katies Strategic Report for more details.
The terms performance: culture: and shareholder appointment followed a successful period as of reference are available on rbs.
NatWest Holdings Limited NWH Ltd is now In addition, Brendan Nelson will step down as the holding company for our ring-fenced Chairman of the Group Audit Committee with operations.
NWH Ltd shares a common board effect from close of business on 31 March membership with NatWest, the Royal Bank 2019, and as a non-executive director with and Ulster Bank Limited together, the NWH effect from the end of the 2019 Annual Ltd sub-group and the four boards meet General Meeting.
Patrick Flynn will assume concurrently.
the role of Chairman of the Group Audit 49 Corporate governance Executive Management The non-executive directors combine broad Each director is required to notify the Board of The Board and the CEO are supported by the business and commercial experience with any actual or potential situational or Executive Committee ExCo, which is independent and objective judgement and transactional conflict of interest and to update responsible for overseeing all aspects of the they provide independent challenge to the the Board with any changes to the facts and Groups operations.
ExCos membership executive directors and the leadership team.
comprises the executive directors and the The balance between non-executive and Situational conflicts can be authorised by the Group Chief Risk Officer: who are also executive directors enables the Board to Board in accordance with the Companies Act members of the wider executive management provide clear and effective leadership across 2006 and the companys Articles of team.
Biographies of the executive RBSs business activities.
The Board considers each management team can be found on rbs.
and conditions of appointment of nonrequest for authorisation on a case by case executive directors are available on rbs.
basis and has the power to impose conditions Chairman and Chief Executive or limitations on any authorisation granted as The role of Chairman is distinct and separate Company Secretary part of the process.
from that of the Chief Executive and there is a The Company Secretary, Aileen Taylor, works clear division of responsibilities with the closely with the Chairman to ensure effective Details of all directors conflicts of interest are Chairman leading the Board and the Chief functioning of the Board and appropriate recorded in a register which is maintained by Executive managing business day to day.
alignment and information flows between the the Company Secretary and reviewed Details of the key responsibilities of the Board and its committees.
Chairman and the Chief Executive are available on rbs.
As Chief Corporate Governance and Board and Committee meetings Regulatory Officer & Board Counsel, Aileen The table below shows Board and Committee Senior Independent Director advises the Board and individual directors on meeting attendance during 2018.
Throughout 2018 Mark Seligman, as Senior a broad range of strategic, governance, legal Independent Director, acted as a sounding and regulatory issues.
Aileen also facilitates In addition to scheduled meetings, additional board for the Chairman and as an Board induction and directors professional meetings of the Board and its Committees intermediary for other directors when development.
were held on an ad hoc basis to deal with necessary.
He was also available to time-critical matters.
There were nine ad hoc shareholders to discuss any concerns they Conflicts of interest Board meetings, six ad hoc N&G meetings, may have had, as appropriate.
The Directors Conflicts of Interest policy sets four ad hoc RemCo meetings, six ad hoc BRC out procedures to ensure that the Boards meetings and 1 ad hoc GAC meeting.
The Non-executive directors management of conflicts of interest and its Chairman and the non-executive directors Along with the Chairman and executive powers for authorising certain conflicts are meet at least once per year without executive directors, the non-executive directors are operating effectively.
responsible for ensuring the Board fulfils its responsibilities under its terms of reference.
Board and committee membership and attendance 2018 Group Group Board Oversight Committees nominations performance Group and Group Group and sustainable Technology GRG Board Oversight Committee governance audit board risk remuneration banking and Innovation The GRG Board Oversight Committee committee committee committee committee committee Committee Board N&G GAC BRC RemCo SBC TIC was established in 2015 in relation to the Howard Davies 9 9 4 4 Financial Conduct Authority review of the Ross McEwan 9 9 treatment of SME customers and Frank Dangeard 1 9 9 4 4 3 3 6 6 continued to meet during 2018.
The Alison Davis 2 9 9 6 7 6 6 6 6 Committee oversees and provides advice Patrick Flynn 3 5 5 3 3 5 5 4 4 to the Board in relation to the review, the external independent review of GRG Morten Friis 9 9 7 7 9 9 instigated by the Group and other matters Robert Gillespie 4 9 9 4 4 5 5 7 7 6 6 generally related to GRG.
Brendan Nelson 9 9 4 4 7 7 9 9 Baroness Noakes5 9 9 3 4 7 7 9 9 UBI DAC Board Oversight Committee Mike Rogers 6,7 8 9 7 7 5 6 A Board Oversight Committee was Mark Seligman 8 9 9 3 4 7 7 established in September 2017 in order to Lena Wilson 9,10 8 9 6 6 4 4 provide oversight of required Former Directors enhancements to the governance and risk Yasmin Jetha 11 3 3 2 2 1 1 management practices within Ulster Bank Penny Hughes 12 4 4 1 1 4 4 2 2 Ireland DAC UBI DAC, reporting to the Ewen Stevenson13 7 7 Board, as appropriate.
The journey of Notes: improvement remains a continued area of 1 Frank Dangeard was appointed to RemCo, and stood down from BRC, on 1 June 2018. focus within UBI DAC.
The Committee 2 Alison Davis did not attend the February RemCo meeting due to a scheduling clash with a pre-existing commitment.
3 Patrick Flynn was appointed to the Board, GAC, BRC and TIC on 1 June 2018.
4 Robert Gillespie was appointed to BRC on 1 June 2018.
2019 Board Committee Changes 5 Baroness Noakes did not attend the December N&G meeting due to a scheduling clash with a preMark Seligman was appointed to the existing commitment.
6 Mike Rogers assumed the role of SBC Chairman on 30 May 2018.
Group Audit Committee on 1 January 7 Mike Rogers did not attend the March Board and SBC meetings due to a scheduling clash with a pre- 2019. existing commitment.
8 Mark Seligman was not able to attend the December N&G meeting due to a private commitment.
9 Lena Wilson did not attend the August Board meeting due to a scheduling clash with a pre-existing commitment.
10 Lena Wilson was appointed to the TIC on 1 June 2018.
11 Yasmin Jetha resigned from the Board on 30 April 2018.
12 Penny Hughes resigned from the Board on 30 May 2018.
13 Ewen Stevenson resigned from the Board on 30 September 2018.
14 Sandy Crombie resigned from the Board on 1 January 2018.
50 Corporate governance How the Board operated in 2018 Board effectiveness The Company Secretary maintains continuing At each scheduled Board meeting the Skills and experience of the Board professional development logs.
These are directors receive reports from the Chairman, The Board is structured to ensure that the reviewed regularly between the Chairman and Board Committee Chairmen, Chief Executive, directors provide RBS with the appropriate each director individually, to assist in Chief Financial Officer, and other members of balance of skills, experience and knowledge identifying future training and development the executive management team, as as well as independence.
Given the nature of opportunities that are specific to the individual appropriate.
RBSs businesses, experience of banking and directors requirements.
financial services is clearly of benefit, and we Other senior executives attended Board have a number of directors with substantial Information meetings throughout the year to present experience in that area.
In addition, our All directors receive accurate, timely and clear reports to the Board.
This provides the Board directors have relevant experience of information on all relevant matters and have with an opportunity to engage directly with government and regulatory matters: mergers access to the advice and services of the management on key issues and supports & acquisitions: corporate restructuring: Company Secretary.
In addition, all directors succession planning.
stakeholder management: technology, digital are able, if necessary, to obtain independent and innovation: finance and accountancy: risk: professional advice at the companys In addition to its scheduled meetings, the and change management.
Board also met with the executive management team in June for the annual Board committees also comprise directors Time commitment Board strategy offsite, which included with a variety of skills and experience so that It is anticipated that non-executive directors particular focus on RBSs purpose and longno undue reliance is placed on any individual.
will allocate sufficient time to RBS to term future, technology and innovation.
In discharge their responsibilities effectively and October the Board held a focused and Induction and professional development will devote such time as is necessary to fulfil forward-looking discussion on culture, in Each new director receives a formal induction their role.
Directors have been briefed on the support of the Boards critical role in leading on joining the Board, which is co-ordinated by limits on the number of other directorships the development of RBSs culture, values and the Company Secretary and tailored to suit that they can hold under the requirements of standards.
the requirements of the individual concerned.
the fourth Capital Requirements Directive.
This includes visits to RBSs major Board engagement with stakeholders businesses and functions and meetings with Each director is required to advise RBS as The board maintained its stakeholder focus directors and senior management.
Meetings early as possible and to seek the agreement through a range of activities involving with external auditors, counsel and of the Board before accepting additional employees, shareholders, customers and stakeholders are also arranged as commitments that might affect the time the others.
director is able to devote to his or her role as a non-executive director of RBS.
The Board At a Meet the Board event for employees in The directors have access to a wide range of monitors the other commitments of the May we announced the creation of our new briefing and training sessions and other Chairman and directors and is satisfied that Colleague Advisory Panel.
In creating the professional development opportunities.
they are able to allocate sufficient time to Panel we are complying early with one of the Internal training relevant to the business of enable them to discharge their duties and key features of the new UK Corporate RBS is also provided.
Directors undertake the responsibilities effectively.
Further information training they consider necessary to assist commitment required of our non-executive about the Panel can be found in the Strategic them in carrying out their duties and directors continues to be significant.
Report on page 14 and the Report of the responsibilities as directors.
Directors may directors on page 85. also request individual in-depth briefings from Election and re-election of directors time to time on areas of particular interest.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, We held dedicated events for retail all directors stand for election or re-election by shareholders in Glasgow and Birmingham, During 2018, bespoke training was arranged shareholders at the companys AGM.
In which provided an opportunity for for the directors on a range of subjects to accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the shareholders to meet board members and ask enhance their knowledge, including: election or re-election of independent questions.
Further details on our relations with Banking structural reform: directors also requires approval by a majority investors can be found on page 52. of independent shareholders.
Conflicts of interest: Competition law: In September the Board met in Manchester, Under the Board Appointment Policy all nonCyber security: and spent time with local businesses, executive directors appointed since 1 January The balance sheet: and customers and staff, including branch visits.
2017 are appointed for an initial 3 year term, EU General Data Protection Regulation.
subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
Our annual event for subsidiary non-executive Following assessment by the Group In addition, all directors have access to an directors took place in November, enabling Nominations & Governance Committee they online resources portal, Diligent, through attendees to focus on topics of mutual may then be appointed for a further 3 year which they receive their board and committee interest, including stakeholder engagement, term, and subsequent 12 month terms up to a papers.
Diligent also contains internal policy culture and purpose.
A Board reception was maximum of nine years.
information, corporate governance updates also held in Edinburgh, providing a further and external briefing notes on topical opportunity for some directors to meet and subjects, to support directors professional spend time with customers and other development and competence.
Non-executive directors are also welcome to attend the stakeholder engagement sessions run by the Sustainable Banking Committee further details of which are on page 60.
51 Corporate governance Performance evaluation Key findings and recommendations Individual director and Chairman effectiveness In accordance with the Code, an external The 2018 Board evaluation findings and reviews evaluation of the Board, its Committees and recommendations included the following: The Chairman met each director individually individual directors takes place every 3 years.
to discuss their own performance and the Board is committed and hard-working, An internal evaluation takes place in the continuing professional development and also with a strong Chairman in position and a intervening years.
good working relationship with the CEO: shared peer feedback provided to IBE as part of the evaluation process.
Separately, the Board members are clear on their roles Progress following the 2017 evaluation Senior Independent Director sought feedback and accountability to shareholders and A number of actions were progressed during on the Chairmans performance from the nonwider stakeholders: 2018 in response to the findings of the 2017 executive directors, executive directors, The Board should strive to role model the internal performance evaluation, overseen by DINEDs, and key external stakeholders and culture and values of the organisation and the Group Nominations and Governance discussed it with the Chairman.
balance holding management to account Committee.
with encouragement and support: the Board has reached an inflexion point, Relations with investors These included: and there is now a clear need to focus on The Chairman is responsible for ensuring a focus on longer-term issues during the longer term and forward-looking effective communication with shareholders.
strategy discussions, including RBSs growth strategy: purpose: there is scope to improve the quality of Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask a dedicated Board discussion on culture, Board papers and review the questions at the AGM and any General led by the Chairman: length number of Board and Committee Meetings held or can submit written questions continued opportunities for the Board to meetings: in advance.
meet RBSs customers, for example during Board composition and succession the Manchester board visit: planning should continue to be a priority: Communication with the company's largest additional Board focus on executive and in particular consideration should be institutional shareholders is undertaken as succession planning: and given to reducing the Boards size: and part of the Investor Relations programme: enhancing the quality of information the the induction programme had proved a The Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Board receives through revised formats for positive experience for new non-executive Financial Officer undertake an extensive regular reporting.
directors, and a small number of annual programme of meetings with the improvements were suggested.
companys largest institutional 2018 Performance evaluation shareholders: During September and October the 2018 Actions the Senior Independent Director is Board and Committee evaluation was An action plan has been developed in available if any shareholder has concerns externally facilitated by Independent Board response to the 2018 Board evaluation report, that they feel are not being addressed Evaluation IBE.
IBE was selected following a and its implementation will be overseen by the through the normal channels: and competitive tender process and the Board is Group Nominations and Governance the Chairman of the Group Performance satisfied that IBE have no other connection Committee during 2019.
The plan includes and Remuneration Committee consults with RBS.
measures to: with major shareholders in respect of the agree key objectives, drive a focused Groups remuneration policy.
IBE undertook a formal and rigorous board agenda for 2019, and prioritise evaluation by: board time accordingly including between holding 1:1 interviews with directors, RBSG and NWH Ltd : senior management and external advisers: support a healthy Boardroom culture, discussing the key themes and focused on the development of effective recommendations for action with the working relationships between the Chairman and Committee Chairmen: and directors and senior management: presenting Board and Committee improve the quality of Board papers and effectiveness reports.
presentations: proactively review Board and committee This was the first performance evaluation composition and succession plans: and undertaken since the introduction of our ringfurther enhance the NED induction fencing governance arrangements.
considered the effectiveness of both the RBSG and NWH Ltd Boards, but was predominantly focused on RBSG.
The relatively early stage nature of the feedback was acknowledged, given the Boards were transitioning to the new operating model during the review period.
