72 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Composition The Nomination Committee the Committee comprises Lynn Drummond, Ros Rivaz, Kevin Thompson, Martin Towers and Godwin Wong and is chaired by Jamie Pike.
As the majority of these are considered to be independent This year has been one of non-executive directors, the Committee is fully compliant with the Code.
focus on the replacement The executive directors, HR Business Partner and other members of senior management attend meetings of the Committee by invitation only when of Martin Towers as both a appropriate and the Company Secretary, or his appointed nominee, acts as Secretary.
All members of the Committee, with the exception of Kevin member of the Board but Thompson, who joined the Board on 7 September 2017, served on the also as Chairman of the Committee for the full year.
Audit Committee and Senior Principal responsibilities Independent Director.
I am The terms of reference of the Committee require meetings to be held at least twice a year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings confident that Kevin and Lynn held during the year and the attendance of members of the Committee are shown in the table on page 68.
Only one physical meeting was actually held will provide the qualities and during the year.
It was agreed by the Committee that key business concerning levels of service required in the decision in relation to the appointment of Kevin Thompson would take place through a written resolution of the Committee.
their respective roles over the The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: coming year and beyond.
n review and make recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board: n give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior managers: n evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board: n prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: n identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board and senior management vacancies as and when they arise: n annually review the time required from non-executive directors and evaluate the membership and performance of the Board and its Committees: and n recommend the re-appointment of non-executive directors and re-election Jamie Pike of directors.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Governance Activities Diversity During the year the Committee led a process to appoint an additional nonThe policy currently recommended by the Committee and endorsed by the executive director as a replacement for Martin Towers who would step down Board is that the search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted and from the Board at the 2018 AGM, following the completion of nine years service appointments made on the basis of merit and the most appropriate experience in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
against objective criteria in the best interests of shareholders.
In selecting candidates due regard will be given to the benefits of different nationalities, The Committee will generally engage the services of independent external experience in a variety of business sectors and European and global markets search consultants when recruiting for Board level roles.
On this occasion, the and diversity on the Board, including gender.
Committee chose to use Korn Ferry, and worked alongside them to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for the preferred candidate.
Information concerning the Groups approach to diversity throughout the Following the completion of this process, Kevin Thompson was appointed to the wider organisation can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Board and its Audit Committee with effect from 7 September 2017.
Having been successful in finding and appointing a replacement for Chairman Although the policy makes no provision for target setting on either gender of the Audit Committee, the Committee turned its attention to naming a new or ethnic grounds, current female representation, with Lynn Drummond Senior Independent Director.
The Committee considered the benefits of both an and Ros Rivaz as non-executive directors, on the Board is currently around internal and an external appointment.
Although this is short of the targeted 33% representation for FTSE 350 companies by 2020 set out in the Hampton-Alexander report, the Further to a number of discussions the Committee agreed that Lynn Drummond, Committee feels that RPC is consistent with a number of the reports other who has been on the Board since 2014 and is the current Chair of the recommendations.
Further consideration will be given to satisfying the Remuneration Committee, would take over as Senior Independent Director at additional requirements in both this and the Parker report.
the conclusion of the AGM on 18 July 2018, subject to her re-election by the shareholders.
The change means that RPC will need to appoint an additional Korn Ferry are a signatory to the Standard Voluntary Code of Conduct for non-executive director to join the Board who will take over Lynns current Executive Search Firms which sets out steps they should follow across the responsibilities for remuneration as the Company head into a full review of the search process, from accepting a brief through to induction.
Since its launch Remuneration Policy in the Autumn.
It is envisaged this process will be started following the Davies Review in 2011.
This Code of Conduct has been refined as soon as possible.
and enhanced over time, reflecting learnings from search firms themselves, the independent review of its effectiveness in 2014 and the Hampton-Alexander The Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference in accordance and Parker reports in 2016.
Korn Ferry provided no additional services and had with best practice at its meeting in May 2018 and these can be found on no other connection with the Company.
the Companys website or are available from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
The terms of reference will be reviewed on an annual basis to ensure they remain relevant and up to date.
Jamie Pike Chairman of the Nomination Committee Succession planning The Committee reviews the size, composition and balance of the Board each 6 June 2018 year and recommends any changes for the directors to consider.
Despite its relatively small size, the Board comprises directors with a wide range of managerial, professional and academic experience from accounting, finance and consultancy to manufacturing, engineering, supply chain, logistics, IT and systems, pharmaceuticals and healthcare.
Between them the directors have experience of doing business in the UK, Europe and in the USA, South America, India and the Far East.
Of the directors in office at the date of this report, one is Dutch and another is a Chinese US national and there are both male and female members of the Board.
The Board has endorsed a policy on diversity, including gender, recommended by the Nomination Committee.
The Committee considers plans for the succession of directors and senior managers, including the identification of internal managers who may, with the appropriate development of skills and experience, be suitable for more senior positions in due course with the appropriate development of skills and experience.
