Report of the Group Sustainable Banking Committee Letter from Mike Rogers Stakeholder engagement Performance evaluation Chairman of the Group Sustainable The Committee has continued with its The annual review of the effectiveness of the Banking Committee stakeholder engagement programme and Group Board and its senior Committees, during 2018 met with 16 external stakeholders including Group SBC, was conducted over four sessions.
Group SBC has Engagement sessions considered the outcomes of this evaluation continue to provide a valuable Sustainable credit: and accepts the findings.
Overall the feedback opportunity for the Board to Ethics of artificial intelligence: on the Committee was positive, although it listen to the external Purpose: and was recognised that there was an opportunity perspective.
to be clearer and simpler on remit.
Dear Shareholder, The sessions continue to provide a valuable The outcomes of the evaluation have been I am delighted to present my first report as reported to the Group Board and the opportunity for Board members and senior Chairman of the Group Sustainable Banking Committee will follow up during the year management to listen to the external Committee the Committee or SBC.
through the development of the pillars of perspective.
sustainable banking as described below.
SBC has continued to play a forward-looking During the year the Committee also undertook and strategic role on behalf of the Board, visits to our Private Banking and Premier Conclusion focusing on its priority areas of culture: Banking businesses along with visiting the I want to take the opportunity to thank the customers: people: brand & communications: Digital Studio in Bristol and the London Committee members and attendees for their and environmental, social and ethical ESE Entrepreneurial Accelerator Hub.
The purpose continued contribution and support in 2018. issues.
of these visits is to provide Board members with customer and entrepreneur insights and I would also like to record my thanks to Penny 2018 Highlights interaction.
Hughes, my predecessor, as Chairman of the I can report that good progress was made in Committee who stood down at the AGM in 2018 with some particular areas to highlight May 2018.
Penny was a champion for The Committees programme of stakeholder set out below.
sustainable banking and stakeholder engagement was enhanced by hosting a engagement and I look forward to building lunch with some of the members of the Culture and people remain two areas further on the progress made under her recently formed Colleague Advisory Panel, where the Committee focuses its efforts direction.
with the key themes of the discussion being via a regular culture update as well as shared with the Board.
Further information spotlights on wellbeing, inclusion and how about the Panel can be found in the Strategic In preparation for 2019, the Committee has we are supporting colleagues to develop Report on page 14. spent time considering its remit and how best skills and capabilities needed for the to continue to have a long-term and strategic future.
Membership, Meetings and Escalation focus.
In future, the Committees work will be The Committee has prioritised customer The structure of the Committee was amended structured under four pillars of: Customers matters, having received updates from the part way through the year in preparation for and Brands: People and Culture: the customer facing franchises, including ring-fencing.
More information on ring-fencing Competitive Environment: and Society and digital and mobile strategy, customer governance can be found on page 49 of the Environment.
journey management and business Governance Report.
I am energised to continue to lead the The Committee recognises the importance Committees work during 2019 and look A Sustainable Banking Committee of NatWest of customer service so time has been forward to reporting on progress of the Holdings Limited NWH Ltd SBC was dedicated to understanding the actions established, with its focus on customer and sustainable banking agenda next year.
needed to be taken by management to people matters within the ring-fenced bank.
improve RBSs position in the customer service rankings published by the Authority is delegated to Group SBC by Group Competition and Markets Authority.
This Board and a regular report of the Committees was with a keen focus on managements activities is provided to the Group Board.
terms of reference are available on rbs.
com Mike Rogers The Committee has considered the and these are reviewed annually and Chairman of the Group Sustainable Banking Environmental strategy, with a focus on approved by the Group Board.
Committee activity relating to colleagues and suppliers 14 February 2019 as well as being updated on the approach Group SBC began the year with six to climate change.
independent non-executive directors, with that changing to four independent non-executive New areas of interest for 2018 included directors due to changes in the structure of RBSs reputation and relationships with the Committee as referenced above.
details of membership and attendance at The Committee received a spotlight on meetings can be found on page 50 of the suppliers which included how RBS Governance Report.
ensures it works with suppliers that share the same values as well as understanding the quality of supplier relationships.
This was complemented by obtaining the internal audit perspective.
The Committee supported management in developing a sustainable banking dashboard which provides a consolidated view on performance in respect of key priorities.
