STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board and committee structure Board committee structure and membership In order that it can operate ef ciently and give the Formal minutes recording the decisions of all The composition of each committee is reviewed right level of attention and consideration to relevant Board and committee meetings are prepared and by the Group Nomination and Governance matters, the Board delegates authority to its Board circulated to each director.
If a director objects to a Committee annually and when there is a change to committees, as set out in the diagram below.
The particular decision, this is recorded in the minutes the Board.
All committees have some members in key functions of Risk, Actuarial, Compliance and of the relevant meeting.
If a director were to be common to ensure cross-committee awareness Internal Audit all report directly to a Board unavailable to attend a meeting, their views would of matters discussed.
For example, the chair of committee providing expert advice on their remits be canvassed by the Chairman prior to the relevant the Group Audit Committee is a member of the to the relevant committee and senior management.
meeting, and the Board informed of their opinions Board Risk Committee and the chair of the Details of the activities of these committees are set and observations.
Board Risk Committee is a member of the out later in this report.
Following each committee meeting, a verbal update is presented to the Board ensuring that all directors are aware of the deliberations and challenges on relevant topics and speci c matters.
The composition of each committee is reviewed Board Through regular review of the Boards rolling by the Group Nomination and Governance The agenda and previews of each Board meetings As set out in the Matters Reserved for the Board, the Board is responsible for: agenda, the Chairman ensures suf cient The long-term sustainable success of the Company, generating value for shareholders and time is allowed for discussion and debate contributing to wider society: and he encourages constructive challenge Measuring performance against objectives set: during Board meetings.
Establishing a framework of prudent and effective controls to assess and manage risk: Maintaining and developing effective engagement with shareholders and stakeholders: The purpose, values and strategy and associated cultural alignment within the Company: Ensuring suf cient resourcing is in place to meet objectives: Ensuring workforce policies and practices are consistent with corporate values and support long-term success.
A B I Group Audit Committee GAC Board Risk Committee BRC Group Investment Committee GIC The GAC plays an important role assisting The BRC has a pivotal role in ensuring the The GIC manages all aspects of investment the Board in its oversight and monitoring key risks to the Group are identi ed and policy and strategy for the Group and provides of the Companys financial statements, the understood, are effectively managed within oversight of the operation of the Groups robustness of the Groups systems of internal risk appetite and appropriately re ected in the investment portfolios, including oversight of control and its financial and regulatory risk Internal Model.
the fide ned bene t pension schemes, within management, and oversees the effectiveness established strategy and risk frameworks.
and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
Read more on page 57 Read more on page 64 Read more on page 61 Executive Committee ExCo N R ExCo is the Group management committee Nomination and Governance Group Remuneration Committee that assists the Group Chief Executive in Committee NomCo RemCo discharging his delegated authority.
It is not a committee of the Board.
ExCo is responsible for The NomCo considers the structure, The RemCo is responsible for the Group performance, including financial, capital size and composition of the Board and oversight of remuneration decisions and and nancing requirements: the relationship committees and identi es and proposes reviews, challenges and sets the remuneration and communication with the Regulator: candidates to the Group Board.
It ensures of Executive Directors and the Chairman of reviewing risk management across the Group: appropriate succession plans are in place for the Board.
Group-wide human resources and development the Board and reviews executive succession issues: any signi cant corporate relations planning.
The Committee also focuses on issues: and signi cant operational issues.
Board effectiveness and good governance.
Read more on page 62 Read more on page 66 For Terms of Reference visit www.
com termsofreference 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board activities during 2018 Throughout the year, the Board and its CUSTOMER AND PEOPLE committees have focused on a number of key areas, including: customer and people: The Board has sought to interact directly their career aspirations.
The Board received strategy and execution: finance, capital with employees and customers and ensure and discussed enhanced reporting on and investor relations: and governance, that the information ow and key metrics diversity and inclusion metrics and also risk and regulatory.
are properly analysed and understood by met with members of the D&I Council to the Board.
discuss progress against our diversity and The Board aims to ensure that the views inclusion ambitions and the initiatives being of its stakeholders are considered during During its visit to Toronto, the Board met established to support them.
with senior leaders to understand better The Board is aware of its responsibilities the Johnson brand and the customer The Board met with a range of employees to to its stakeholders in considering the journey within Canada.
Board members understand their roles within the business, following key areas: also attended a site visit to St Johns, any concerns or opportunities they see, and Newfoundland, to better understand how discuss how their work in uences Board digital technology is being used in Canada decisions.
to improve the customer journey.
The Board reviewed the results of the The Board approved investment in YouRSAy employee engagement survey technology and digital offerings, which and the proposed actions arising from it.
include an easier interface for UK customers The Board supported management in the to use.
The bene ts of these systems will launch of a new people strategy under the include being more intuitive for employees Employer brand Your Best U. and reducing costs.
The Board reviewed Executive succession The Board received quarterly updates from planning with a view to ensuring a strong the new UK Customer Committee which pipeline of talent needed for the future was established to ensure we promote and development of the business.
secure positive outcomes for our customers.
The Board receives updates on the development of diversity, inclusion and equal opportunities within the business and is supportive of an agreed programme of actions that focus on improving Group-wide diversity.
The Board met with members of the Canadian Diversity & Inclusion D&I Council to discuss issues which affect the Groups workforce on a day-to-day basis and how the Company supports and encourages employees from a range of backgrounds in 50 50 RSA RSA A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 18 8 rsa rsag gr ro oup up.. c com om STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS STRATEGY & EXECUTION FINANCE, CAPITAL AND GOVERNANCE, RISK INVESTOR RELATIONS AND REGULATORY The Board holds an annual two-day strategy The Board approved the 2017 final dividend The Chairman and non-executive meeting at which the Board discusses for recommendation to shareholders which directors, together with senior members trends in the insurance market and the was subsequently paid to shareholders of the management team, hosted Groups strategy.
The Board also approved the meetings with external stakeholders, attend to present on business issues 2018 interim dividend, which was paid to including regulators, shareholders and and various innovations in support of the shareholders in October 2018. other external advisers to discuss a long-term strategy and vision of the Group.
variety of topics, including business This year, the presentations included a The Board receives recommendations performance and market trends.
detailed focus on people and culture, cost from the Group Audit Committee on the ef ciencies and macro insurance trends.
Companys financial statements and other The Board engages regularly with related matters.
the FCA and PRA, and some Board The Board met with each of the regional members have met directly with the FCA businesses to discuss business strategy, The Board approved the Annual Report and PRA.
Key topics for engagement customer and people, progress towards and Accounts 2017, as well as approving include culture and governance, best in class ambitions, cyber and digital the preliminary results and trading updates treatment of existing customers and developments, developing market trends which were disclosed to the market in 2018. technology resilience.
The Board also and emerging risks.
The Board also spent At each meeting, the Board reviews and receives periodic updates from the time in the business, both collectively and challenges the monthly Group performance business and from Line 2 on regulatory individually, to gain a greater insight of the pack, which includes a discussion on capital.
operational side of the business, including a Board visit to Canada to meet with the The Chairman and Senior Independent The Board reviewed the results of the Canadian Executive team as well as For more details [loreum ipsum]: Director met with Standard & Poors in European Insurance and Occupational customers, employees and the local Board.
Having challenged management on the Members of the Board joined the annual The Investor Relations team present semirisk to the Groups assets and the impact Senior Leaders Conference, which annually on investor sentiment, competitor of certain scenarios in the exercise, it focused on key priorities and challenges trends and comparison.
approved the results for submission to facing the Group.
Following a discussion on the long-term The Board also reviewed and challenged strategic priorities and after challenging the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment management on the plans and progress prior to submission to the PRA.
made in achieving the best in class status, the Board approved the operational plan.
Senior management from the Groups top 50 management and key businesses in Ireland and the UK were invited to present to the Board on speci c business initiatives.
The Board undertook a deep dive on the Groups approach to volatility and whether the reinsurance structures in place were t for purpose.
Taking into account feedback from investors and having challenged the approach, the Board supported managements recommendation to purchase new regional aggregate covers for 2019.
With the additional covers in place, the Board agreed that the overall reinsurance structure managed volatility appropriately.
51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board and committee composition and attendance in 2018 As at the date of this report, the Board is composed of ten members: the Chairman, seven non-executive directors and two executive directors.
The table below shows the attendance at the Board and committee meetings.
Biographical information of the current directors can be found on pages 46 and 47.
A B N R I 5 6 7 8 9 Board Audit Risk Nom Rem Invest Chairman 9 9 4 4 2 2 Martin Scicluna Group Chief Executive 9 9 Stephen Hester Group Chief Financial Of cer 9 9 Scott Egan INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Senior Independent non-executive director 9 9 4 4 4 4 4 5 Isabel Hudson Alastair Barbour 9 9 6 6 4 4 4 4 2 2 Kath Cates 9 9 6 6 4 4 4 4 5 5 4 Enrico Cucchiani 9 9 2 3 5 5 3 Charlotte Jones 5 6 3 4 1 3 2 Hugh Mitchell 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 Joseph Streppel 8 9 5 6 4 5 2 2 Martin Strobel 9 9 6 6 4 4 4 4 5 5 2 2 NOTES: 1 Joseph Streppel was unable to attend the January 2018 Board and Committee meetings due to ill health.
2 Hugh Mitchell resigned as a director with effect from 11 May 2018.
3 Charlotte Jones joined the Board and GAC on 1 April 2018 and BRC on 1 June 2018.
She was unable to attend the Board and BRC meetings in June and December 2018 and the June 2018 GAC meeting due to prior commitments predating her membership of the Board and committees.
Unfortunately, the Board and committees were unable to reschedule the meetings.
Charlotte ceased to be independent in February 2019 when she agreed to assume the role of Group CFO.
4 Enrico Cucchiani joined the BRC on 1 June 2018.
He was unable to attend the June 2018 Committee meeting due to a prior commitment predating his membership of the Committee.
5 GAC regular attendees: Group CFO, Group Chief Auditor, Group & UK Regulatory Compliance Director, Group Chief Risk Of cer, Group Chief Legal Of cer and Company Secretary, Group Chief Financial Controller and representatives from the External Auditor.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director attend ahead of RSAs full and half-year results.
6 BRC regular attendees: Chairman, Group CFO, Group Chief Legal Of cer and Company Secretary, Group & UK Regulatory Compliance Director and Group Underwriting Director.
7 NomCo regular attendees: Group CEO and Group Chief Legal Of cer and Company Secretary.
8 RemCo regular attendees: Chairman, Group CEO, Group Chief Legal Of cer and Company Secretary, Group HR Director, Group Reward Director and PwC as independent advisers to the Committee.
Additional input was provided by the Group Chief Risk Of cer.
9 GIC regular attendees: Group Investments Director, Group CEO, Group CFO and Group Chief Legal Of cer and Company Secretary.
52 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS UK Corporate Governance Code Governance code The Board, through the Group Nomination and Governance Committee, monitors compliance with the Code.
The Company has complied with the 2016 Code which was in force throughout the year which is available at www.
Details of how the principles and provisions of the Code have been applied are set out in the Directors and Corporate Governance Report, the reports from each of the Board committees and in the Strategic Report.
Leadership Role statements fide ne the separation of The role of the non-executive director is to Role of the Board responsibilities between the Chairman and challenge and approve the Groups strategy The primary responsibility of the Board is to Group Chief Executive and provide a mandate and to assess and challenge performance provide effective leadership to ensure that it to independent non-executive directors to against business plans, bringing an promotes the success of the Company for debate and challenge strategy, execution independent, objective view to the discussion.
the bene t of its members as a whole.
The and performance and bring an independent, Board, supported by its committees, provides objective opinion.
The role statements for The Chairman leadership within a framework of prudent and the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are The Chairman is responsible for the leadership effective controls.
The Board is accountable approved by the Board annually.
and effectiveness of the Board, including to stakeholders for the creation and delivery conducting Board meetings.
He promotes of strong sustainable performance and the The Group Chief Executive is responsible a culture of openness and debate, ensuring creation of long-term shareholder value.
for identifying and developing business effective decision-making and the provision opportunities, recommending actions to the The Board sets annual objectives for the of timely, accurate and clear information.
Board with particular attention to strategic business in line with the current Group The Chairman, who was independent on plans, risk appetite and risk exposure for strategy and monitors achievement against appointment, is responsible for the leadership the business, monitoring the performance these objectives through regular reports.
and management of the Board and its of the Group and overseeing the delivery of Updates to the Board from the Group Chief governance.
He makes sure the Board is objectives and business plans within agreed Executive, the Group Chief Financial Of cer effective in its role by promoting a culture of timescales and budget.
and other members of senior management openness and debate, facilitating the effective are scheduled in respect of all material The Senior Independent Director supports the contribution of all directors and helping to business matters to ensure that progress Chairman in the delivery of his responsibilities maintain constructive relations between against strategy is monitored.
as required, ensuring the views of each of executive and non-executive directors.
the non-executive directors are given due He regularly meets with the non-executive The division of responsibilities consideration and facilitating communication directors, without management present, between the non-executive directors and the No individual or small group of directors is able in advance of Board meetings to discuss Chairman.
to dominate the Boards decision-making.
the upcoming agenda and provide the opportunity for open dialogue.
53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Effectiveness Board composition The NomCo considered all new external Board evaluation appointments relating to the Chairman and Through the annual Board evaluation process, The evaluation process was designed to the non-executive directors which included the Board has con rmed it has the appropriate include consideration of the balance of skills, the committees conclusion that the directors balance of skills, experience, independence experience and composition of the Board, are able to continue to devote suf cient time to and knowledge to enable it and its committees how the Board works together as a collective, the role as a Board member of the Company.
to discharge their duties and responsibilities as well as other factors relevant to the See page 63 for more details.
The Board is effectively, and continues to work towards continued effectiveness of the Board and its satis ed that Martin Scicluna, Alastair Barbour achieving external diversity recommendations.
and Martin Strobels external appointments The NomCo is responsible for reviewing In 2018, an internal evaluation was led by did not give rise to a con ict of interest and are Board membership, succession planning and Isabel Hudson, the Senior Independent not a constraint on their time or ability to carry diversity to ensure the skills, experience and Director SID and the Company Secretary.
balance of the Board remains appropriate.
The evaluation was carried out via online When appointing new directors, regard is questionnaires, which were supplemented Induction, training and development given to the size of the Board, the balance of with individual interviews conducted by the Each director has an individual training plan, executive and non-executive directors and the SID and the Company Secretary in order to which is reviewed annually by the Chairman.
bene ts of all forms of diversity.
canvas the views of each director and regular The directors have attended training sessions attendees of Board and committee meetings.
and seminars during the course of the year Following recommendations from the NomCo, The questionnaire covered the effectiveness on topics such as cyber security, the Internal the Board took into consideration the Code of the Board and its committees and Model, Solvency II and audit and risk updates and indicators of potential non-independence, 360-degree reviews of the performance of together with deep dives on business including length of service.
The questionnaires were areas and participated in direct stakeholder consideration, the Board determined then complemented by individual interviews engagement to keep their knowledge current that, with the exception of the Chairman, conducted by the SID and the Company and enhance their experience.
Each year, the whose independence is only determined Secretary.
The results of the 360-degree Board also spends time on site visits, giving on appointment, all non-executive directors reviews were used for one-to-one discussions it the opportunity to meet with and challenge remained independent in character and between the Chairman and directors.
In senior management, while also deepening its judgement throughout the year as fide ned addition, the SID facilitated a separate knowledge of speci c business areas.
Charlotte Jones ceased to be discussion with the non-executive directors information on the Boards activities during independent during February 2019 when on the Chairmans performance.
2018 is detailed on pages 50 and 51. she agreed to assume the role of Executive Director and Group CFO.
The results of the evaluation were presented Additional training is provided for all Board to the Board in December and actions members when committee membership The NomCo Report on page 62 sets out agreed against the key themes.
more details of the appointment process for unanimously concurred that the Board was Charlotte Jones, and the Committees role in Following her appointment to the Board, highly engaged and operating effectively.
Charlotte Jones undertook a tailored induction Key strengths included feedback regarding programme, receiving a broad range of the openness and transparency of both Commitment information about the Group.
This included discussions at Board meetings and also The letters of appointment for the Chairman information on the operational performance in relation to managements reporting of and each of the non-executive directors set and business of the Group, including the challenges and issues.
Board members out their anticipated time commitment, which Groups approach to corporate responsibility, commended the collaborative and positive includes attending Board and committee and details of Board procedures, corporate atmosphere at Board meetings and the meetings, spending time in the business, governance and directors responsibilities.
degree of challenge provided to management.
training and brie ngs with senior management Meetings with senior management covering During 2018, progress has been made as part of their induction and ongoing all aspects of the business, including capital, against the key themes identi ed in the 2017 development programme, and attendance claims, company secretarial and legal, HR, evaluation and good or signi cant progress at the AGM.
Details of the directors service internal audit, investments, IT and e-business, had been made on all actions.
In 2019, the contracts and terms of appointment, together regulatory compliance, reserving, risk and Board will focus on enhanced stakeholder with their interests in the Companys shares, underwriting, were also organised.
Charlotte engagement, improvements to the ow of are shown in the Directors Remuneration was invited to attend each Board committee information presented to the Board, and IT Report on pages 83 and 84.
The service as part of her induction programme to and the ability to react to the ever-changing agreements and letters of appointment, for familiarise herself with the remit of each ITenvironment.
all the executive and non-executive directors, committee and the matters discussed.
are also available for inspection at the Companys registered of ce and at the AGM.
54 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Accountability The Board, through the Board Risk Committee, ensures that material risks are identi ed and ensures these risks are mitigated and managed.
System of Governance to achieve business objectives, but it does Internal Control System not eliminate risk.
In addition, assurance of The Board, supported by its committees, The Internal Control System comprises three the Financial Control Framework is carried operates within a framework of prudent key elements: out on a quarterly basis by the Group Audit and effective controls in the interests 1.
For further details, refer to of shareholders, customers and other Policies establish standard controls, which are the Group Audit Committee Report on stakeholders.
The purpose of the System implemented and operated by the business pages 57 to 60. of Governance is to ensure the safety and Supplemented by objective first line validation soundness of the Group and its key entities.
SYSTEM OF GOVERNANCE and independent second line assurance The System of Governance comprises three processes elements: Corporate Governance Framework The Group Controllership Policy sets out 1.
Corporate Governance Framework Provides a framework which supports the standard control processes to mitigate how the business is managed.
the realisation of its business strategy and against material financial reporting misstatement supports long-term success 2.
Risk Management System: how risks and financial loss.
Assurance is provided are identi ed, measured, managed, Provides effective and ef cient decisionthrough the Financial Control Framework.
making by the Board and its committees 2.
Internal Control System: the controls Ensures that both directors and employees Authority delegated from the Board to behind the Corporate Governance act within a chain of delegated authority the Group CEO through the Delegated Framework and the Risk Management and speci ed powers Authority Framework System.
Safeguards compliance with applicable Onward delegation to senior management laws and regulations.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the through Executive Licences which set effectiveness of the Groups System of Risk Management System out speci c limits of authority to ensure all Governance, which is approved on an annual employees execute their responsibilities A common framework through which risk basis.
within clearly fide ned limits in compliance management and control is embedded with relevant regulatory and statutory Through the Corporate Governance Consistent approach throughout the Group requirements Framework, effective decision-making, good to identify, measure, manage, monitor and procedures and strong internal reporting Day-to-day management is undertaken report risks are embedded into the business processes, by the Group Chief Executive and Executive Consistent and comprehensive set of which align to the Groups strategy of Committee supported by executive level policies are maintained focused, stronger and better.
committees Risk Management Policy establishes a Each executive is responsible for ensuring The Board Risk Committee has responsibility framework of standard risk management a similar process of delegation is in place for reviewing and recommending the processes within his or her area of responsibility System of Governance to the Board and Risk Management System is underpinned has speci c responsibilities for the Groups Mitigates risk of the Group being exposed by the Three Lines of Defence model: Risk Management System, including the or committed to material financial, operational, First line of defence: activities Internal Model and Solvency II capital ratios, legal, reputational, regulatory risk and or undertaken to ensure that risks are setting the Groups overall risk strategy and loss and provides clarity on who can make identi ed and controlled to bring them risk appetite, and for approving the risk what type and level of decisions.
Regulatory Compliance Framework refer to the Board Risk Committee Report Second line of defence: independent Regulatory Compliance Policy sets out on pages 64 and 65. review and challenge of the first line the standard control processes to minimise activities, providing assurance that controls The Group Audit Committee reviews the and or prevent the risk of material loss, and validation are properly designed and effectiveness of the Internal Control System on reputational damage or liability arising operating effectively an annual basis.
The Group has an effective from the failure to comply with regulatory Internal Control System in place which sets requirements Third line of defence: evaluation of the out the processes and frameworks required effectiveness of our risk management, Ensures that the Group deals with regulators to ensure effective and ef cient delivery of control and governance processes.
in an open and cooperative manner the Groups strategic objectives, including Keeps regulators fully and promptly reliability and availability of information to informed of all matters.
identify and mitigate any potential risk of failure 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Engagement The Board is committed to transparent disclosure and engagement with the Groups stakeholders.
The Board believes that its stakeholder engagement programme provides meaningful insight into the views, priorities and issues facing each of its stakeholders.
Stakeholders The Chairman and each Board committee The Chairman and the Chief Executive are chair make themselves available to take also attending the European Works Council, Throughout the year, senior management questions from shareholders.
RSAs European employee representative has actively engaged with shareholders, body, during 2019. customers, employees, regulators and More information on shareholders other stakeholders on relevant matters.
can be found on page 08 More information on employees The Board has attended internal leadership can be found on pages 38 and 39. events, overseas visits, presentations and dinners hosted by senior management to Customers gain a deeper understanding of certain Regulators One of the Groups strategic goals is the business areas.
During the year and with The Board is committed to dealing with ambition of delivering improvements in reference to the new Code provisions, the regulators in an open, cooperative and customer service.
The Board receives regular Board undertook a review of the Companys transparent manner and takes its regulatory updates on customer metrics as it moves engagement with its key stakeholders and responsibilities seriously.
During the year, the towards realising this ambition.
established a stakeholder engagement plan PRA and FCA conducted routine meetings to identify opportunities to engage further More information on customers with several members of the Board and in 2019.
The engagement plan outlined the can be found on page 08 executive management.
Similar meetings take Boards direct and indirect engagement place with regulators in other jurisdictions.
with the Groups key stakeholders, including Regular management information is provided meetings with investors and ratings agencies, Employees to assist the regulators with the supervision site visits, customer interaction, employees of the Group.
and ongoing interaction with the Regulator.
The Board recognises the key role of the Groups employees in delivering the Groups See pages 08 and 09 in the Strategic report Rating agencies strategy and values the time spent with them.
Members of the Executive Committee and The Group is rated on an interactive basis senior management host regular town hall by Standard & Poors and Moodys.
Their meetings to update employees on topical insurance financial strength ratings as at Shareholders issues, including giving updates on company 25February 2019 are A stable outlook and During the year, the Group met with a number performance each quarter following the A2 stable outlook respectively.
These ratings of key institutional investors.
The Board receives announcement of results or a trading update.
were af rmed following the 2018 half-year regular updates in relation to shareholder views.
The Board hosted a town hall meeting during results and re ect RSAs improving its visit to Toronto to hear directly from the performance, strong competitive positions, The Group remains committed to maintaining workforce as well as a number of events with diverse business mix and the completion of high levels of transparency and disclosure employees to discuss issues of importance to balance sheet actions undertaken.
In addition, to investors to aid understanding of the the Group.
Further town halls and meetings both agencies have spent a day with senior Companys investment case.
are planned for 2019, including during the management discussing Group strategy, At each AGM, the Group Chief Executive Board visit to Scandinavia in September 2019. financial plans, capital and risk management.
presents an update on the Companys performance and activities during the year.
Remuneration The Directors Remuneration Policy, approved The remuneration framework is designed to Group Remuneration Committee members by shareholders, supports operational plans, promote sound and effective risk management receive background information on the business strategy and short and long-term in line with the Companys risk pro le.
remuneration of the Groups employees in performance.
general to provide context when considering Shareholding requirements, malus and executive directors remuneration.
Performance measures are aligned to clawback provisions are in place.
business strategy, customer metrics and risk For more details, see the Remuneration section on pages 66 to 69 and control, and have stretching targets.
56 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
