BOARD OF DIRECTORS Martin Scicluna Stephen Hester Isabel Hudson Chairman Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment date: January 2013 Appointment date: February 2014 Appointment date: August 2016 Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Committee membership: N I Committee membership: B R N Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Martin has considerable knowledge and understanding Stephen has over 30 years experience in Isabel brings wide-ranging commercial, corporate of the financial services sector.
He brings valuable financial services and FTSE100 companies.
He is finance and business development experience experience in developing strategy and evaluating responsible for the executive management team, to the Board from the UK and internationally, business opportunities, along with understanding of along with leading strategy and business plan especially Europe, focused on the insurance sector, the financial services sector and how it operates.
As development and execution for the Company and spanning life and general insurance as well as Chairman, he ensures the Board operates effectively, its major operating subsidiaries, having regard to the pensions.
Isabels previous experience chairing promoting constructive engagement with shareholders requirements of the Companys shareholders and a remuneration committee contributes and adds and other stakeholders.
Previous roles include Senior other stakeholders.
value to the Group Remuneration Committee.
Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee Stephen was previously Chief Executive Of cer Isabel previously served as Executive Director of Worldpay Group plc, non-executive director and of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, 2008 of Prudentials UK business and Chairman of Chair of the Audit Committee at Lloyds Banking Group to 2013, where he led the largest ever corporate Prudential International Assurance between 2002 plc, 34 years at Deloitte LLP 26 years of which as restructuring and recovery programme.
Prior to that, and 2006, Chief Executive of specialised pension Partner, Chairman of Deloitte LLP from 1995 to 2007, he held positions as Chief Executive at British Land buyout rm Synesis Life, Chief Financial Of cer of Director, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu from 1999 to 2007 plc from 2004 to 2008, Chief Operating Of cer of Eureko and International Development Director and membership of the Financial Services Trade and Abbey National plc and a number of senior roles at for GE Insurance Holdings Limited.
She was also Investment Board from 2013 to 2015. Credit Suisse First Boston in London and New York.
non-executive director at Standard Life plc, QBE Insurance Group Ltd and The Pensions Regulator.
External appointments External appointments Chairman of Great Portland Estates Limited retired External appointments Senior Independent Director of Centrica plc.
January 2019 and non-executive director of Chairman of National House Building Council and JSainsbury plc Chairman from the beginning of non-executive director of BT plc.
their new financial year in March 2019.
Enrico Cucchiani Scott Egan Charlotte Jones Independent non-executive director Group Chief Financial Of cer appointed Non-executive director announced as CEO, UK & International, on 5 February 2019 Group CFO in February 2019, subject Appointment date: December 2014 to regulatory approval.
Charlotte will Nationality: Italian Appointment date: October 2015 Committee membership: R B assume the role by Summer 2019.
Nationality: British Appointment date: April 2018 Skills and experience Skills and experience Nationality: British Enrico has over 35 years experience in the financial Scott has substantial financial services experience Committee membership: A R and insurance sector, in both global executive and understanding of the financial sector, which and non-executive positions.
Previously, he was Skills and experience he brings to the Board when overseeing financial Group CEO at Intesa Sanpaolo and, prior to that, operations of the Group and setting the financial Charlotte has over 25 years financial services member of the Executive Board of Allianz where he strategy.
Before RSA, Scott was Interim Chief experience in the banking and asset management was responsible for companies in Europe, Africa Executive Of cer at Towergate Insurance, having sectors.
She is currently Chief Financial Of cer of and Latin America and, globally, for P&C.
He also previously held the post of Chief Financial Of cer.
Jupiter Fund Management plc, a position she has served on the boards of, among others, Unicredit Scott also held the post of Chief Financial Of cer held since September 2016.
Prior to joining Jupiter, and Pirelli.
at Brit Insurance, after four years as Chief Financial Charlotte was Head of Group Finance and Chief Of cer UK at Zurich Financial Services, and latterly as Accounting Of cer at Credit Suisse Group.
From External appointments Group Financial Controller.
He has also held various 2004 to 2013, she held various senior finance roles Founding Partner of TGI-Think Global Investments, senior finance roles at Norwich Union Insurance and at Deutsche Bank and between 1990 and 2004 non-executive director of Piraeus Bank and Aviva.
Scott is a quali ed accountant ACMA, has an progressed from trainee accountant to partner in Member of the Board and Executive Committee of MBA from Cran eld University and is a member of the financial services practice of Ernst & Young.
the ClimateWise Insurance Advisory Council.
External appointments External appointments Chief Financial Of cer and executive director of None.
46 46 RSA RSA A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 18 8 rsa rsag gr ro oup up.. c com om STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Alastair Barbour Sonia Baxendale Kath Cates Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointment date: October 2011 Appointment date: March 2019 Appointment date: September 2013 Nationality: British Nationality: British Canadian Nationality: British Committee membership: A N I B Committee membership: A I Committee membership: R A B N Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Alastair has extensive experience in advising on Sonia has over 25 years experience in the banking Kath has spent over 25 years in a variety of roles accounting and financial reporting, corporate and financial services industry in Canada.
She in global financial services, both in the UK and governance and management issues in the has run large global businesses and has served at globally.
She was previously Chief Operating Of cer, financial sector.
He brings in-depth knowledge and operating board level at Canadian Imperial Bank of Wholesale Banking, for Standard Chartered Bank understanding of global governance.
He is a Fellow Commerce, one of the top five banks in Canada.
Kath has gained a of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Since stepping down from Canadian Imperial Bank deep knowledge of control, governance and risk and Wales.
Alastair retired from KPMG in March of Commerce in 2011, Sonia has built a successful management, working in emerging markets and 2011.
In the last 20 years of his 36-year career portfolio of non-executive positions.
across different sectors and cultures.
with the rm, in the UK and overseas, he led their External appointments External appointments financial services team in Scotland with a primary focus on insurance and investment management.
Non-executive director and member of the Risk Senior Independent Director of Brewin Dolphin Management Committee of Laurentian Bank Holdings plc and non-executive director of External appointments of Canada, non-executive director, Chair of the Threadneedle Investment Services Limited, Senior Independent Director of Phoenix Group Human Resources and Governance Committee Threadneedle Pensions Limited and Threadneedle Holdings, and non-executive director of Liontrust and member of the Audit and Finance Committee Asset Management Holdings Sarl.
Asset Management plc, CATCo Reinsurance at Foresters Insurance and President and Chief Opportunities Fund Limited and The Bank of N. T. Executive Of cer of the Global Risk Institute in Butter eld & Son Limited a company listed in Financial Services.
COMMITTEE MEMBER KEY A Group Audit Committee B Board Risk Committee I Group Investment Committee N Group Nomination and Governance Committee R Group Remuneration Committee Joseph Streppel Martin Strobel Chair of Committee Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Member of Committee Appointment date: October 2011 Appointment date: May 2016 Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Swiss B I A R N Committee membership: I A R Committee membership: Board of Directors as at 27 February 2019 Skills and experience Skills and experience Martin has over 25 years experience in insurance Joseph has a comprehensive understanding of and financial services.
He encourages constructive the insurance market globally, extensive financial challenges of matters discussed.
Martin was Chief services expertise and a good knowledge of Executive Of cer of Baloise Group, a position he international and emerging markets.
Previously, he held for seven years to 2015.
He joined Baloise was Chief Financial Of cer of Aegon until 2009 and Group in 1999 as the Head of IT at Basler Switzerland Chairman of the Monitoring Committee of the Dutch ROLE STATEMENTS and, within Baloise Group, was responsible for Corporate Governance Code.
major cross-functional insurance and finance projects.
For more role statements, see page 53 External appointments From 2003 to 2008, he was a member of the Corporate Executive Committee with responsibility Chairman of Leaseplan Corporation, Chairman of for the Corporate Division Switzerland.
From 1993 Stichting Continuteit Philips Lightning Foundation to 1999, Martin performed various roles at Boston Continuity Philips Lightning and non-executive Consulting Group, Dsseldorf, advising business in director of Arq Foundation.
the banking and the insurance sectors.
Joseph will retire as a director with effect from 9 May 2019 External appointments Non-executive director of Anivo 360 AG and member of the supervisory board MSG Life AG.
47 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee comprises Stephen Hester and Scott Egan, Executive Directors of the Group Board, Chief Executive Patrick Bergander Charlotte Heiss Of cers of the Canadian CEO RSA Scandinavia Group Chief Legal Of cer and Company Secretary and Scandinavian regional Patrick joined the RSA Groups Executive Committee in June 2014 following his appointment Charlotte was appointed Group Chief Legal Of cer businesses and senior to CEO of RSA Scandinavia.
Previously CFO for and Company Secretary and joined the Group Scandinavia, Patrick has been with the RSA Group Executive in March 2016.
Charlotte joined RSA in management in key since 2011.
February 2010 as Legal Counsel, becoming Head of Group Legal in October 2011.
Previously, Patrick held senior finance roles functional roles.
at Electrolux and If Skadefrskring.
Previously, Charlotte worked at law rm Linklaters LLP, specialising in corporate advisory, public and private M&A and equity capital market transactions.
Martin Thompson Ralph Daals Cathy Lewis President and CEO RSA Canada Group Chief Auditor Group HR Director Martin was appointed President and CEO of RSA Ralph was appointed Group Chief Auditor in June Cathy joined RSA as Group HR Director and Canada in July 2016.
2015 with responsibility for leading the Group member of the RSA Group Executive in January Internal Audit Function.
Previously, he held the post 2017.
Previously, Martin was Senior Vice President, of Chief Auditor for the UK and Western Europe.
commercial insurance and global specialty lines, Previously, Cathy was Executive Director of HR and with RSA Canada.
Martin has held progressively Before joining RSA, Ralph headed up Deloitte UKs Corporate Services at Prudential UK & Europe HR senior roles, including director, underwriting and risk Internal Audit services to the insurance industry.
Before Prudential, she with RSAs Scandinavian operations, since joining Prior to that, he held senior audit positions at Aviva.
held senior HR leadership roles at HM Revenue and the Group in 1997.
Customs, Cooperative Financial Services, Abbey PLC and BAA plc.
Cathy will retire from the Group on 31 March 2019 and will be succeeded by Karen Caddick.
William McDonnell Nathan Williams Group Chief Risk Of cer Group Underwriting Director William was appointed Group Chief Risk Of cer in Nathan was appointed Group Underwriting Director December 2014.
Since joining RSA in 2006, William in June 2016.
Since joining RSA in 2005, Nathan has also held the roles of Group Risk Director, has held numerous senior roles, including Chief Group Financial Controller and Head of Corporate Underwriting Of cer for Scandinavia and Group Finance.
He is a chartered accountant with extensive risk Before joining RSA in 2005, Nathan held management and finance experience with a underwriting and pricing posts at Norwich Union number of blue-chip financial institutions, including and Towers Watson.
HSBC Investment Bank, Aviva, the Financial Services Authority and seven years at Deloitte.
Biographical details of the individuals ful lling these roles can be found at: rsagroup.
com thegroupexecutive 48 48 RSA RSA A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 18 8 rsa rsag gr ro oup up.. c com om
