36 GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance across the Group Governance Code compliance All of the Directors bring strong judgement to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Board is committed to the highest the Boards deliberations.
During the year the The Company considered that Patrick standards of corporate governance across Board was of sufficient size and diversity that Snowball was independent on his the Group and supports the principles laid the balance of skills and experience was appointment as Chairman.
down in the UK Corporate Governance Code considered to be appropriate for the The roles of the Chairman and the Chief the Code, as issued by the Financial requirements of the business.
Executive Officer CEO are different and Reporting Council.
The Board considers that The Board their separate responsibilities are set out in the Company became compliant with all of the The Board is collectively responsible for writing, recognised and approved by principles and provisions of the Code during setting the Companys strategic aims and the Board.
the financial year ended 31 December 2018. providing the leadership to put them into To ensure the Group was fully compliant with The Chairmans key responsibilities include: effect through the management of the the principles of the Code, during the year Providing strong and effective leadership Groups business within the Companys Andy Pomfret was appointed to the Board to the Board governance framework.
It does this by setting as Senior Independent Director SID, Group strategy and then ensuring that Ensuring the Board as a whole plays a full the Board reviewed and addressed their appropriate standards, controls and resources and constructive part in the development training and development needs, and a are in place for the Company to meet its and determination of the Groups strategy Board Effectiveness Review evaluating the obligations, and reviewing managements and overall commercial objectives performance of the Board, its Committees, performance.
This includes a Code of Conduct Facilitating the effective contribution and the Company Chairman was completed.
setting out the Groups policy of conducting of the NEDs A copy of the Code is available on the all business affairs in a fair and transparent Retaining and building an effective and Financial Reporting Councils website at manner and maintaining high ethical complementary Board with an appropriate www.
uk directors corporatestandards in dealings with all relevant parties balance of skills and, as Chairman of the   www.
co. uk about-us Nomination Committee, considering governance-code.
succession planning for Board appointments Leadership In order to ensure there is a clear division In conjunction with the CEO and Company The current Board members, details of their of responsibilities between the Board and Secretary, ensuring that members of experience and the date of their appointment the running of the business, the Board has the Board receive accurate, timely and are set out on 34 and 35. a formal schedule of matters specifically clear information reserved for its decision which is reviewed As at 31 December 2018, the Board Ensuring that the performance of individual on an annual basis.
These reserved matters comprised seven Directors: the Chairman, two Directors and of the Board as a whole and include the Groups strategic aims: objectives Executive Directors, and four Non-executive its Committees is evaluated regularly and commercial strategy: governance and Directors NEDs, all of whom were Ensuring the Company maintains effective regulatory compliance: structure and capital: independent.
During the year there were two communication with shareholders and financial reporting and controls: internal changes to the Board.
Firstly, Andy Pomfret other stakeholders controls and risk management: major was appointed to the Board as SID and as capital commitments: major contracts and Promoting the highest standards of NED, and secondly, Matthew Tooth, the NED agreements: shareholder engagement: integrity, probity and corporate governance appointed by funds advised by BC Partners remuneration of senior executives: material throughout the Group and particularly at pursuant to the Relationship Agreement corporate transactions: and any changes to Board level.
described on page 64 of this Annual Report this schedule of reserved matters.
The CEOs key responsibilities include: The Board meets six times a year with Running the Groups business within The independence of the NEDs is reviewed supplementary meetings as required.
There is the authority delegated by the Board annually in accordance with the criteria set a planned cycle of activities, managed through out within the Code.
The Board considers Proposing and developing the Groups a schedule of matters, and a formal agenda Catherine Barton, Ian Clark, Andy Pomfret strategy and overall commercial objectives, for each meeting.
Minutes and a follow-up list and Rebecca Shelley to be independent in in close consultation with the Chairman and of matters arising from each meeting are accordance with Provision B.
the Board, and with regard to the Groups maintained.
Verbal updates are provided by Accordingly, over half the Board excluding responsibilities to its shareholders, each Committee Chairman at the following the Chairman was independent as at customers and employees Board Meeting.
The Company Secretary acts 31 December 2018.
Implementing the decisions of the Board as Secretary to the Board and to all of its and its Committees Committees.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Consulting regularly with the Chairman Board as a whole.
and Board on matters which may have a material impact on the Group Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 37 Ensuring the development needs of the Board Committees Board and Committee meetings Groups senior management team are met In order to provide effective oversight and The attendance of directors at Board and and that succession planning meets the leadership, the Board has delegated certain committee meetings held in the financial needs of the Group: aspects of its responsibilities to the following year ended 31 December 2018 are illustrated committees of the Board Committees : in the table below.
In conjunction with the Chairman and Company Secretary, ensuring the Board The Audit and Risk Committee The activities of the Board during the year are receives accurate, timely and clear The Nomination Committee set out below and the reports from each of information: and these Committees other than the Disclosure The Remuneration Committee Promoting and conducting the affairs of Committee are set out on pages 40 to 61 The Disclosure Committee.
the Group with the highest standards of of this Annual Report.
integrity, probity and corporate governance.
The terms of reference of these Committees At the meetings of the Board in the financial were approved by the Board, reviewed The CEO is supported by a strong and year ended 31 December 2018, the Board annually and are available on the Companys experienced Executive Committee chaired met seven times, during which they reviewed website at www.
and approved: corporate-governance The performance of the Company Non-executive Directors The Committee reports are set out on Along with the Chairman and Executive The announcement relating to the financial pages 40 to 61.
Directors, the NEDs are responsible for year ending 31 December 2017 ensuring the Board and its Committees fulfil In accordance with the Code provisions The 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, their responsibilities.
The NEDs combine for companies outside the FTSE 350, the including the Committee reports, viability broad business and commercial experience, Chairman may be a member of the Audit and going concern statements in particular in the financial services and and Risk Committee and the Remuneration The Notice of Meeting and Proxy Form insurance sectors, with independent and Committee as he was considered for the 2018 AGM objective judgement and they provide independent on appointment as Chairman.
The Half Year Results and Trading independent challenge to the Executive During the year Patrick Snowball, the Statements Directors.
The balance between Non-executive Chairman, stepped down as a member and Executive Directors enables the Board to of the Audit and Risk Committee and the The Companys strategy provide clear and effective leadership across Remuneration Committee, with effect The payment of the interim dividend the Groups business.
21 March 2018, when Andy Pomfret was The 2019 budget.
Upon Senior Independent Director joining the Board, Andy Pomfret was also In addition to this above, the Board regularly Andy Pomfret was appointed as SID in appointed to the Nomination and Disclosure received updates, reports and presentations February 2018.
In addition to acting as a Committees.
The Board has satisfied itself from other senior employees including the sounding board for the Chairman, the role and that the Audit and Risk Committee comprises Chief Actuary, Claims Director, Head of IT responsibilities of the SID include: members with recent and relevant financial and Head of HR.
Being available to shareholders if they have and accounting experience.
concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve or for which such contact Attendance by Directors at Board and Committee is inappropriate Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Attending sufficient meetings with major Director Board Committee Committee Committee shareholders and financial analysts to obtain Catherine Barton 7 7 5 5 3 3 6 6 a balanced understanding of the issues and Geoff Carter 7 7 n a n a n a concerns of such shareholders Ian Clark 7 7 5 5 2 3 5 6 Chairing the Nomination Committee when Andy Pomfret 5 5 3 3 1 1 4 4 it is considering succession to the role of Rebecca Shelley 7 7 4 5 2 3 6 6 Chairman of the Board Patrick Snowball 7 7 2 2 3 3 2 2 Meeting with the NED at least once a year Matthew Tooth 3 5 n a n a n a to appraise the Chairmans performance Adam Westwood 7 7 n a n a n a and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 38 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board effectiveness Information and advice Performance evaluation Board composition Directors are provided with appropriate The Board recognises the importance of The Board is structured to provide the documentation one week in advance of each evaluating annually the performance and Company with an appropriate balance of skills, Board and Committee meeting.
During the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees, experience, knowledge and independence year, an online platform for Board and Chairman and individual Directors.
During to enable it to discharge its duties and Committee papers was procured, ensuring the year a formal annual review of the responsibilities effectively.
During the year, timely access to accurate information for the performance of the Board, its Committees, the Board has been further strengthened by Directors.
All Directors have access to the Chairman and individual directors was the appointment of Andy Pomfret as NED, and advice and services of the Company Secretary completed.
This year the process consisted of Anneka Kingan as Company Secretary.
Given for information and guidance, who is an internally run exercise led by the Chairman the nature of the Groups business, insurance, responsible for ensuring that all Board and assisted by the Company Secretary.
actuarial and accounting experience as well as procedures have been complied with.
The appraisal questionnaire used as part experience of the financial services sector is Directors may also obtain independent of the process was wide ranging and included clearly of benefit and this is reflected in the professional advice at the Companys expense questions covering the Board, the Committees composition of the Board and its Committees.
if they believe it may be required in the and Chairmans performance.
Individual furtherance of their duties.
No such advice Director performance was reviewed by Decisions at Board meetings are taken by was sought by any Director during the year.
a majority of the Directors and in the case of an equality of votes the Companys Time commitment The appraisal confirmed that the Board, its Articles of Association Articles provide As part of the appointment process and their Committees and the Chairman were operating that the Chairman has a second or casting annual review the NEDs each confirm that effectively.
The feedback was discussed with vote.
The Board considers that no single they are able to allocate sufficient time to the the Board and the Chairman.
It was agreed Director can dominate or unduly influence Company to discharge their responsibilities that steps would be taken to invite Senior decision-making.
During the year, the effectively and Directors are expected to Management to attend parts of meetings and Chairman and the NEDs met without the attend all Board meetings, relevant Committee to develop a Management Risk Committee.
Executive Directors at the end of each meetings, the AGM and any general meeting Appointment of Directors Board meeting, and the NEDs met without of the Company.
The other commitments of The Articles that provide Directors may be the Chairman present.
the Chairman and the other Directors are as appointed by the Board or by the Company indicated in their profiles on pages 34 and 35.
Induction and ongoing by ordinary resolution.
A Director appointed by professional development Each Director is required to advise the the Board may only hold office until the next The Board has developed an induction Chairman as early as possible and to seek following AGM of the Company after their programme which all new Directors participate the agreement of the Board before accepting appointment and is then eligible for election in upon joining the Board.
This programme additional commitments that might affect by the shareholders.
The Articles require that is monitored by the Chairman and is the the time that Director is able to devote each Director shall retire at the third AGM held responsibility of the Company Secretary.
to his or her role as a NED of the Company.
after they were last elected and annually Depending upon their qualifications and when they have been in office for nine years The Board is satisfied that the Chairman experience, the programme will include or more, and retiring Directors are eligible and each NED are able to allocate sufficient presentations and briefings, meetings with to stand for re-election.
However, the time to enable them to discharge their duties Board members, senior management and Board through the Nomination Committee and responsibilities effectively.
external advisers, and visits to the Companys has reviewed and adopted the Code office in Dorking.
recommendation that all Directors should be subject to annual re-election in compliance The ongoing professional development of the of Code provision B.
7.1 notwithstanding Directors has been reviewed by the Board the Company only entering the FTSE 250 and its Committees.
The Chairman will review in December 2018. and agree training and development needs with each of the Directors during each year.
Further details regarding the terms of Directors have the opportunity to highlight appointment and remuneration for the specific areas where they feel their skills or Executive and NEDs are set out in the knowledge would benefit from development Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 as part of the Board evaluation process, to 61 and their service contracts and terms and are encouraged to continue their of appointment are available for inspection own professional development through in accordance with the Code.
attendance at seminars and conferences.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 39 Conflicts of interest Remuneration The holdings of our major shareholders can be The Board has established a procedure to deal Details of the Directors remuneration and found on page 63 of this Annual Report.
During with Directors conflicts of interest which the work of the Remuneration Committee the year, the Companys largest shareholder complies with the Companys Articles and the as required by the Large and Medium-sized at Listing, the BC Partners Group BCP, provisions in section 175 of the Companies Companies and Groups Accounts and completely sold down their shareholding in the Act 2006.
Schedules of a Directors actual Reports Regulations 2008 as amended Company.
The relationship between the Group or potential conflicts are compiled based on in 2013 can be found in the Directors and BCP was governed by the Relationship disclosures made by the Director.
These are Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 61.
Agreement described on page 64 of this updated and reviewed on an annual basis Annual Report and ensured that the Company Relations with shareholders in addition to conflicts or potential conflicts was capable of carrying on its business Through this Annual Report and, as required, being considered at the beginning of independently of the BCP and its associates.
through other periodic announcements, the Board meetings.
The Relationship Agreement terminated with Board is committed to providing shareholders effect of BCP selling their shareholding.
Accountability with a clear assessment of the Companys The Board, through the Audit and Risk position and prospects.
The share register is managed on the Groups Committee, receives reports regarding the behalf by Equiniti who can be contacted at The Board recognises the importance of Companys risk management and internal Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, engaging constructively with shareholders control systems and has reviewed the West Sussex BN99 6DA or by telephone on and, during the Listing process, the CEO and Companys financial and business reporting, 0371 384 2030 or, if dialling internationally, CFO engaged with many of the institutional the effectiveness of the Groups systems of on 44 121 415 7047. shareholders in the UK and the US who are risk management and internal control, and the now shareholders in the Company.
The Companys 2019 AGM Notice will be Companys relationship with its auditors, the Subsequent to the Companys Listing, the issued separately.
The AGM will provide details of which are set out in the Audit and CEO, CFO and Company Secretary continue shareholders with the opportunity to vote Risk Committee Report on pages 40 to 43. to engage with shareholders through investor on the resolutions put to shareholders and, Modern Slavery Act 2015 presentations, conferences and roadshows, for those shareholders who attend, to ask As part of Sabres commitment to preventing ensuring they are up to date with the views of questions of the Board of Directors, including bribery and corruption, the Group has an the Companys shareholders.
These views are the Chairmen of the Committees.
The result Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, which is regularly shared with the Board, and the of the AGM voting on all resolutions will be reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
Chairman and the SID remain available to published on the Companys website.
In addition to this Sabre has considered the meet shareholders to discuss any issues Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Sabre has a zero or concerns they may have.
tolerance approach to any form of slavery and The Board keeps shareholders informed human trafficking and confirms to the best primarily by way the Annual Report, Half Year of its knowledge that there is no slavery Results, Trading Statements and the AGM.
or human trafficking within its supply This information and other significant chain.
The Companys Modern Slavery announcements of the Group will be Statement is reviewed and approved by released to the London Stock Exchange the Board on an annual basis and can be and will be available on the Companys found on the Companys website www.
Whistleblowing arrangements The Company has a policy which enables and encourages employees to report in confidence any possible improprieties in either financial reporting or other matters.
During the year the Audit and Risk Committee agreed to outsource these arrangements, which will come into effect in 2019.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
