40 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Catherine Barton Committee Chairman The Committee Both the Chief Executive Officer and Chief The Audit and Risk Committee was in Financial Officer who is also the Chief Risk place throughout the financial year ended Officer are invited to attend meetings, unless 31 December 2018, was chaired by they have a conflict of interest.
In addition, Catherine Barton, and comprises of the four the External Audit Partner, the Internal Audit COMMITTEE MEMBERS Non-executive Directors of the Company, Partner and the Company Secretary and all of whom are considered to be free of any Head of Internal Audit are invited to attend the Committee Meeting members attendance relationship that would affect their impartiality Committee meetings, providing there is no in carrying out their responsibilities and were conflict of interest.
Other relevant people Catherine Barton 5 5 independent as required under section B2.1 from the Company may also be invited to Committee Chairman of the UK Corporate Governance Code the attend all of or part of a meeting to provide Ian Clark 5 5 Code.
The Board considers that Catherine deeper insight into the Company and issues.
Barton has the appropriate financial expertise, Either immediately prior to the meeting or Andy Pomfret appointed to the 3 3 as required by section C3.1 of the Code, immediately after the meeting, the Committee Committee in May 2018 as Catherine is a Fellow of the Institute of Chairman meets with either the External Audit Actuaries and has held executive roles, Partner or the Internal Audit Partner.
These Rebecca Shelley 4 5 including Commercial and Finance Director private meetings alternate at each meeting, Patrick Snowball in another company.
In addition to this, both and allow the auditors to have direct and resigned from the 2 2 Andy Pomfret and Ian Clark have recent and regular access to the Committee Chairman.
Committee in May 2018 relevant financial experience, and the make-up The Committee Chairman also held individual of the Committee ensures that it is able to meetings with Adam Westwood, who is the fulfil its duties.
Details of the experience of all Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer, members of the Committee are included on and Anneka Kingan who is the Company pages 34 to 35.
Secretary and Head of Internal Audit.
Members to the Committee are appointed The Chairman of the Committee reports to by the Board, on the recommendation of the subsequent meetings of the Board and the Nomination Committee and the Chairman of Board receives a copy of the minutes of each the Audit and Risk Committee.
Appointments Committee meeting once these have been are made for an initial period of three years, approved by the Committee.
which can then be followed by an additional two further three year periods.
During the The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary year and upon his appointment to the Board, to the Committee.
The terms of reference Andy Pomfret joined the Committee, and of the Committee can be found on the at the same time Patrick Snowball left the Companys website www.
There were no other changes about-us corporate-governance or obtained during the year to the membership of from the Company Secretary.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 41 During the year, the Committee reviewed its Internal audit this includes monitoring Reviewing the accounting issues and effectiveness, as part of the Groups Board the role and effectiveness of the Groups significant judgements related to the Effectiveness Review.
The Committee agreed Internal Audit function including approving financial statements that the Committee was effective.
the annual programme of internal audit Reviewing the process and stress testing work, monitoring the reports arising from undertaken to support the Groups viability Committees role and responsibilities internal audits and the status of actions and going concern statements The Audit and Risk Committee meets at least resulting therefrom and the appointment four times a year, and as and when required.
Reviewing the appropriateness of the or removal of the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring Groups accounting policies Whistleblowing reviewing arrangements the integrity of the financial statements of the Reviewing reports regarding risk by which employees may in confidence Company, for providing effective governance management, compliance and internal raise concerns about possible improprieties over the appropriateness of the Groups audit including the procedures and plan regarding financial reporting and financial reporting and advising the Board relating to each area other matters.
on the Groups overall risk appetite.
Reviewing and approving the risk Internal controls this includes reviewing In accordance with its terms of reference management framework and risk appetite, the effectiveness of the Groups system the Board has delegated to the Committee the corporate risk register and the Groups of internal controls and ensuring timely responsibility for overseeing key areas of principal risks and uncertainties action is taken by management to address responsibility which include the following: Reviewing the Groups system of controls matters arising from the risk and internal Financial reporting this area of and its effectiveness using information audit assessments.
responsibility includes monitoring the drawn from a number of different sources External audit this includes considering integrity and compliance of the Companys including management, compliance and risk and making recommendations to the Board financial statements and any formal management reports, and independent on the appointment of the external auditors announcements or publications relating to assurance provided by internal audit including approving the remuneration and the Groups financial performance as well as through its annual audit plan and the terms of appointment as well as reviewing reviewing significant financial reporting external auditors the external auditors annual audit issues and judgements made in connection Approving the policy on non-audit services programme and the results therefrom, with them.
carried out by the Groups external auditors reviewing the quality and effectiveness Reserves review the establishment of of the audit and reviewing and confirming Recommending to the Board, which insurance liabilities in respect of reported the policy on non-audit services carried agreed to recommend to shareholders, and unreported claims is the most out by the external auditors and the reappointment of Ernst & Young EY significant area of judgement within the auditor independence.
as the Groups external auditor financial statements.
The Committee Recommending to the Board, which The Committee has a planned cycle of maintains oversight of the reserving process adopted the recommendation, the activities to ensure that it addresses its and assumptions used in setting the level of appointment of BDO as the Groups responsibilities in the current financial year.
insurance liabilities, which is assessed by outsourced internal audit service provider the Groups actuaries on a quarterly basis.
Activities during the year Recommending to the Board, which adopted Risk management this includes During the financial year, the Committee held the recommendation, the appointment of an reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness five meetings.
Each Committee meeting held external company to provide the Companys of the procedures for the identification, during the year had a particular specific focus.
whistleblowing hotline assessment and reporting of risk as well as During the year, the Committee focused on: Reviewing and confirming to the Board that, setting, and monitoring adherence to, a risk A review of the results of the external based on its review of the Annual Report appetite that defines the nature and extent auditors work for Half Year and the Half and Accounts and internal controls that of the risks that the Group is facing and Year Statement support the disclosures, the Annual Report should be willing to take in achieving its The External Audit Plan and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, strategic objectives.
It also includes The Internal Audit Plan and the appointment balanced and understandable and provide oversight of the processes by which of BDO as Internal Auditor the necessary information for the risk-based capital requirements, and the shareholders to assess the Companys Groups solvency position, is determined Key areas of focus in advance of the position and performance and its business and monitored.
commencement of the year-end audit.
model and strategy Compliance this includes reviewing the During the year, the Committee addressed Reviewing the external auditor Groups compliance policies and procedures its responsibilities by: effectiveness review to ensure that the Group complies with Reviewing the external auditors plan for the relevant regulatory and legal requirements, Reviewing the ongoing professional audit of the Groups financial statements, including the arrangements in place for the development of Committee members which included key areas of scope of work, reporting and investigation of concerns and Reviewing its terms of reference.
key risks on the financial statements, for ensuring fair customer outcomes.
confirmation of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 42 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee pays particular attention to 3.
Other matters External audit effectiveness matters it considers to be important by virtue The Committee reviewed certain matters and independence of their impact on the Groups results, the which were individually less significant to the The Committee is also responsible for internal control environment or the level of financial statements such as the upcoming managing the relationship with the Companys complexity, and matters of judgement or implementation of new and updated external auditor, EY, on behalf of the Board.
estimation involved in their application to the accounting standards, which will impact the Overall effectiveness of the external audit Consolidated Financial Statements.
The main recognition, measurement and disclosure of process is dependent upon open areas of focus for the period under review are insurance contracts and financial investments.
communication between the Group and the set out below: Risk management and internal controls auditor, which allows each party to raise 1.
Valuation of insurance liabilities The Board has delegated to the Committee potential accounting and financial reporting The Committee agreed with Managements responsibility for monitoring and reviewing the issues as and when they arise, rather than assessment that the most significant area of Groups risk management framework, the limiting this exchange to only during regularly estimation within the financial statements risks that the Group should be willing to take scheduled meetings.
continues to be the estimation of insurance in achieving its strategic objectives, and the The effectiveness of the financial year ended liabilities.
This comprises an estimate of the controls in place within this framework to 31 December 2017 and half year ended ultimate cost of claims incurred at the date ensure that the Group has robust procedures 30 June 2018 external audit process was of the statement of financial position, both for financial reporting and preparing its formally assessed during the year by the reported and not yet reported, along with consolidated accounts.
Feedback was sought from an estimate of the associated reinsurance reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk various participants in the process primarily recoveries.
The Committee reviewed the management and internal control systems, the Committee, Chief Financial Officer, Companys policy to hold sufficient reserves and reported on such review to the Board.
Chief Executive Officer and the Companys to meet insurance liabilities as they fall due, In conducting its review the Committee Senior Accountant.
The effectiveness of the plus a risk margin reflective of the uncertainty focused on material risks, including the audit partner, the audit team, their approach within such calculation.
determination of the nature and extent of the to audits, including planning and execution, principal risks, and controls in the context of The Committee reviewed the Chief Actuarys communication, support and value were reports it received regarding risk management, annual reserving report and challenged assessed and discussed.
Overall the compliance and internal audit as well as the appropriateness of the process, key effectiveness of the external audit process reports from the Companys external auditor.
judgements and assumptions supporting was assessed as performing as expected.
Details of the Groups principal risks and the projection of the best estimate claims uncertainties are set out on pages 22 to 26 The Committee has reviewed and approved expense.
The Committee also discussed such together with information about the a policy regarding non-audit work and fees matters with the Groups external auditor.
management and mitigation of such risks.
which requires all non-audit work proposed The Chair of the Committee met with the to be carried out by the external auditors to Groups Chief Actuary without other members Internal audit be pre-authorised by the Committee or, of Management present.
The Committee The Group has a formal process of internal if required urgently between Committee noted the inherent uncertainty associated audit, and during the year BDO were meetings, the Chair of the Committee, in with the estimation of claims costs, in appointed to run the Groups Internal Audit order to ensure that the provision of non-audit particular with reference to the changing programme.
BDO perform audits on a rolling services does not impair the external auditors legal environment and uncertainty around basis across the Group.
The reports are made independence or objectivity.
Certain services the Ogden Discount Rate.
available in summary form to the Committee cannot be provided by the external auditor or and in detailed form to the Committee 2.
Share-based payments members of its network without the possibility Chairman, Chief Financial Officer, Chief The Group operates two Employee Benefit of compromising its independence and as Risk Officer, the Company Secretary and Trusts EBTs and has implemented a such are not permitted to be provided by the Head of Internal Audit, and relevant number of share schemes since listing on the external auditor.
These prohibited non-audit members of Management.
The Committee has services include, but are not limited to, confirmed that the appropriate accounting The primary objective of the function is certain tax services, bookkeeping and payroll policies have been selected and applied in to systematically and objectively assess: services, designing and implementing internal respect of the establishment of the EBTs and i the effectiveness of the business controls control and risk management procedures or share schemes operated during the year.
over the Groups operations, financial the design or implementation of information reporting, risk and compliance areas and technology systems relating to the production ii the adequacy of these systems of control of financial statements, valuation services, to manage business risk and safeguard the actuarial valuation services, and the provision Groups assets and resources.
The Committee of certain legal services, HR services and reviewed and approved the internal audit role financing, capital structuring and investment and risk-based internal audit plan, and received strategy services.
updates on the internal audit activity and engagement results to help form a view on internal audit effectiveness.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 43 Other types of non-audit work can be EY have been the auditors of Sabre Insurance undertaken by the external auditors, subject to Company Limited and of the previous parent the implementation of adequate safeguards companies of Sabre Insurance Company and the total fees for these non-audit services Limited since 2001.
Given that Sabre must not exceed 70% of the average audit Insurance Company Limited, the principal fees billed to the Company by the external subsidiary of the Group, is considered a auditor in the past three years.
During the Public Interest Entity PIE, the transitional year, EY and its subsidiaries charged the rules under the EU legislation require Sabre Group 175,000 2017: 170,000 for audit Insurance Company Limited to run a tender and audit-related services, and received a total process for the external audit by 2023, after fee during the financial year of 250,000 which Sabre Insurance Company Limited will 2017: 705,000.
A summary of fees paid to be required to change its external auditors.
It is the external auditors is set out in Note 8 to the anticipated, given the material nature of Sabre Consolidated Financial Statements.
In the Insurance Company Limited within the Group, period from the Listing to 31 December 2018, that the Directors would tender the external the external auditors did not undertake any audit of the Group at that time.
In addition material non-audit work for the Company.
under these regulations, the external audit engagement partner is now required to rotate External audit appointment every five years.
The current external audit and tendering engagement partner is Stuart Wilson, who The Committee has concluded that the was appointed to lead the audit of Sabre external auditors have demonstrated Insurance Company Limited in 2016. appropriate qualifications and expertise and have remained independent of the Group.
On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee Accordingly, the Committee recommended to the Board that EY be reappointed as the Groups auditors for a further year.
The Board has accepted this recommendation and a resolution to shareholders proposing the Catherine Barton reappointment of EY will be set out in the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee AGM Notice which will be sent separately 27 March 2019 to shareholders.
The Committee also reviewed EYs engagement letter and determined its remuneration in accordance with its obligations under the Code, such remuneration being considered appropriate by the Committee.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
