44 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Patrick Snowball Committee Chairman The Nomination Committee was in place Role of the Committee throughout the financial year ended The Committee meets a minimum of twice 31 December 2018, was chaired by the a year and as required.
Company Chairman, Patrick Snowball, and The Committee leads the process for: comprises the four Non-executive Directors COMMITTEE MEMBERS a reviewing the structure and composition of the Company, all of whom are considered of the Board: to be free of any relationship that would Committee Meeting members attendance affect their impartiality in carrying out their b o verseeing succession planning for the responsibilities and were independent Directors and other senior executives: Patrick Snowball 3 3 as required under section B2.1 of the Committee Chairman c r eviewing the Companys policy on UK Corporate Governance Code.
diversity: Catherine Barton 3 3 Three Committee meetings were held d i dentifying, evaluating and recommending in the year ended 31 December 2018.
Ian Clark 2 3 candidates to join the Board: and The Chief Executive Officer CEO may e m aking recommendations regarding their Andy Pomfret also be invited to attend meetings, unless this appointed to the 1 1 election and re-election by shareholders.
Committee in May 2018 presents a conflict of interest.
During the year, A formal, rigorous and transparent procedure the CEO either attended partially or fully all Rebecca Shelley 2 3 using independent external search consultants of the Committee meetings.
The Company or firms is undertaken before candidates are Secretary and Head of HR may be invited, but recommended to the Board.
The Committee only as appropriate and only if this does not recognises the importance of diversity and, present a conflict of interest.
The Committee when recruiting, ensures that there are is supported by executive search consultants no obstacles to the Committee having as and when required.
visibility of suitable candidates for possible The Chairman of the Committee reports to appointment to the Board and, in particular, subsequent meetings of the Board and the that such appointments are based on Board receives a copy of the minutes of each merit regardless of gender, social and meeting once these have been approved by ethnic backgrounds.
The Company Secretary acts The Committee has a planned cycle of as the secretary to the Committee.
activities, managed through a schedule of The terms of reference of the Committee matters, to ensure that it addresses its can be found on the Companys website responsibilities in the current financial year.
co. uk about-us corporategovernance and are reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 45 Activities during the year On behalf of the Nomination Committee During the financial year ending 31 December 2018, the Committee held three meetings.
During these meetings, the Committee: Oversaw the recruitment and appointment Patrick Snowball process of Andy Pomfret as Senior Chairman of the Nomination Committee Independent Director, using an independent search firm, Korn Ferry 27 March 2019 Reviewed the position regarding succession planning and talent management for the Executive Directors and senior management of the Company and its principal subsidiary Sabre Insurance Company Limited Reviewed and approved for recommendation to the Board a formal diversity policy Approved the Nomination Committee Report in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Reviewed the ongoing professional development of Committee members and the induction of new Directors Discussed the balance of skills and experience on the Board and considered if any changes were necessary Reviewed and approved the Committees Terms of Reference Reviewed and recommended the election of Directors at the Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting Reviewed the annual Committees evaluation responses.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
