34 BOARD OF DIRECTORS PATRICK SNOWBALL GEOFF CARTER ADAM WESTWOOD ANDY POMFRET CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, SENIOR INDEPENDENT EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Patrick Snowball was appointed a Geoff Carter was appointed Director Adam Westwood was appointed Andy Pomfret was appointed Non-executive Director of Sabre and Chief Executive Officer of Sabre Director and Chief Financial Officer Director and Senior Independent Insurance Group plc in September Insurance Group plc in September of Sabre Insurance Group plc Director of Sabre Insurance Group 2017 when the Company was 2017 when the Company was in September 2017 when the plc in February 2018.
Andy has incorporated and Chairman of the incorporated and has been a Company was incorporated, extensive experience of working Company in November 2017, and Director of Sabre Insurance has been a Director and Chief in the financial services sector has been a Non-executive Director Company Limited since December Financial Officer of Sabre Insurance and with UK listed companies both of Sabre Insurance Company 2015.
Geoff joined as Chief Company Limited since September as an executive and non-executive Limited since July 2017.
In 2018 Operating Officer in November 2016, and joined as Financial director.
After qualifying as an Patrick was appointed as 2015 and became Chief Executive Controller in 2014. accountant with KPMG he spent Non-executive Chairman of Officer in May 2017. over 13 years with Kleinwort Adam is a qualified chartered Provident Financial plc and Benson as a corporate financier, Prior to joining the Group, Geoff was accountant.
Having joined Ernst & served as Chairman of IntegraFin venture capitalist and finance Chief Executive Officer of Tesco Young LLPs insurance audit team Holdings plc from 2017 to 2018. director of the investment Underwriting Limited and has over in 2006 and qualified as a Chartered management and private banking Patrick has extensive experience 20 years experience in managing Accountant in 2009, Adam has division.
In 1999 he joined Rathbone of the insurance industry and has insurance operations.
Prior to that, over 10 years experience of the Brothers plc as Finance Director, gained a wealth of knowledge Geoff was employed by Ageas insurance sector.
Adam holds and served as Chief Executive of many different aspects of the Insurance UK as Managing Director a BSc Hons degree in Physics from 2004 until 2014. sector acquired over a 30-year of Ageas Insurance Solutions and Business Studies from the career in financial services.
He also spent seven years University of Warwick.
During the last five years Andy has last executive role was as Chief at Churchill Insurance, both prior been a non-executive director of Executive Officer of Suncorp Group to and following its acquisition by several companies both quoted Limited, an ASX20 Australian Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS, and unquoted.
He is currently a financial services group, from 2009 and was subsequently seconded director of Sanne Group plc and until 2015.
Prior to that, he was to TescoCompare.
com to launch three investment trusts Aberdeen Group Executive Director at Aviva a joint venture between Tesco plc New Thai, Miton Micro-cap and plc from 2001 until 2007 as well and RBS.
He is a Chartered Insurer ICG Enterprise Trust.
He was also as holding various other positions in and holds a Master of Business a founder member of the Prudential the Aviva group and its predecessor Administration degree from Regulation Authority Practitioner companies.
He also has significant Sheffield Business School and Panel.
Andy holds an MA from a Postgraduate Diploma in boardroom experience and was Queens College, Cambridge.
a non-executive director of Marketing from the Chartered Committee Membership Institute of Marketing.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc from 2008 to 2009 and Deputy Chairman at Towergate Partnership between 2007 and 2009.
He was also a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel from 2006 to 2008.
D from the University of East Anglia and a Masters degree in History and Economics from the University of Oxford.
Committee Membership Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 35 CATHERINE BARTON IAN CLARK REBECCA SHELLEY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Ian Clark was appointed a Catherine Barton was appointed Rebecca Shelley was appointed Key to committees a Non-executive Director of Non-executive Director in a Non-executive Director of Audit and Risk Committee September 2017 when the Sabre Insurance Group plc in Sabre Insurance Group plc in October 2017.
Company was incorporated and October 2017.
Nomination Committee has been a Non-executive Director Catherine has extensive insurance Rebecca brings extensive Remuneration Committee of Sabre Insurance Company and actuarial experience.
She began commercial and financial services Limited since May 2014.
Chairman of Committee her career with Bacon & Woodrow, experience to the Board, as well becoming a fellow of the Institute of A chartered accountant, Ian has as her background of market-facing a strong finance background and Actuaries in 1999, before moving to roles at listed companies.
Having Board changes that Deloitte LLP, where she became a significant recent and relevant been Investor Relations and occurred during the year accounting experience as well as partner in 2005 and led the UK and Corporate Communications Director overseas markets retail insurance extensive knowledge of the UK at Norwich Union plc from 1998 to Matthew Tooth insurance market.
Ian was a partner actuarial team.
Between 2010 and 2000, Rebecca moved to Prudential Non-executive Director 2015, she was a partner within the at Deloitte LLP between 2001 and plc in 2000, where she held a resigned with effect 2014, where he led the Strategy and general insurance actuarial team of number of senior positions, starting 18 June 2018 Ernst & Young LLP.
Catherines Corporate Finance practice for the as Investor Relations Director, insurance sector.
Prior to that, he most recent executive experience and then becoming Group Matthew Tooth was appointed is from Bupa where she worked as was an Insurance Partner at Bacon Communications Director with as Non-executive Director in & Woodrow, during which time he Commercial and Finance Director of a seat on their Group Executive September 2017 when the the UK business from 2015 to 2017 spent three years as an independent Committee.
From 2012 to 2016, Company was incorporated UK Government appointee on the and as General Manager for Bupa Rebecca was the Group and Non-executive Director Dental Care in 2018.
She has Insurance Brokers Registration Communications Director of Tesco of Sabre Insurance Company Council, then the regulator of significant and relevant financial plc and a member of their Executive Limited since September 2016. experience gained from these roles insurance broking in the UK.
During this time she Matthew is a managing partner His early career was spent as a and she holds a MA Hons degree held positions on the board of the of BC Partners LLP BC in Mathematics from the University partner at Arthur Anderson and British Retail Consortium and was Partners, a pan-European its predecessor firms where he of Oxford.
a trustee of the Institute of Grocery private equity house.
Prior to specialised in auditing clients in the Distribution.
Rebecca is now at TP joining BC Partners in 2013, Committee Membership insurance industry.
Ian is Chairman ICAP plc as Group Corporate Affairs Matthew spent nine years at of Mighty Quin Consulting Limited, Director, and is a member of the Blackstone, most recently as a company through which he Global Executive Committee.
a managing director, and six provides strategic advice within She holds a BA Hons in Philosophy years at Credit Suisse in their the insurance industry.
and Literature from the University European sponsor coverage of Warwick, and an MBA in leverage finance and mergers Committee Membership International Business and and acquisitions groups.
He Marketing from Cass holds a degree in Economics Business School.
from the University of Exeter.
Matthew was not independent Committee Membership in his role as Non-executive Director as he was appointed pursuant to the Relationship Agreement described on page 64 of this Annual Report.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
