Governance Effectiveness The members of the Board we announced that the Board had approved the The Board considers its overall size and composition Nomination Committees recommendation to appoint to be appropriate, having regard in particular to the Patrick OSullivan as Non-Executive Director and independence of character, integrity, differences of Chairman with effect from 1 May 2018.
Further details approach and experience of all the Directors.
We give of the process can be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 67. due regard to the benefits of diversity in its widest sense for the current and future Board composition, Patrick was selected due to his breadth of experience recognising that this is essential for effective and leadership in growing businesses in the financial engagement with our key stakeholders.
We consider that the skills and experience of our We continue to comply with the Codes individual members, particularly in the areas of recommendation that at least half of our Board insurance, financial services, consumer services, brand members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
management, corporate finance, mergers and For full details of Board composition see pages 62-64. acquisitions, and risk management are fundamental to the pursuit of our strategic objectives.
In addition, the Appointment of Directors quoted company experience of members of the Board The terms of reference of our Nomination Committee in a variety of sectors and markets is invaluable to Saga.
explain the recruitment process used in identifying and recommending the appointment of Director and Independence of Non-Executive Directors Chairman candidates to the Board.
Open advertising or The Board considers four of the current Non-Executive the services of external advisers are used to facilitate Directors to be independent of Sagas executive our search for the best possible candidates from a wide management and free from any business or other range of backgrounds.
relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement or objective Ongoing training and induction of challenge of management.
These Directors are Ray Non-Executive Directors King, Bridget McIntyre, Orna NiChionna and Gareth All Non-Executive Directors attend meetings with Williams.
Philip Green resigned from the Company subsidiary directors and their direct reports to on 31 March 2017 and was considered independent ensure that they fully understand the performance up to the point of his resignation.
and strategic direction for each of our businesses, our culture and values, strategy, sustainability and Changes to the Board governance.
They continue to visit areas of the business Philip Green resigned from the Board and his position to gain first-hand experience of how Saga works.
as Senior Independent Director on 31 March 2017.
He was replaced as Senior Independent Director by Orna Our induction process was reviewed to ensure that NiChionna, one of our current Non-Executive Directors, it provides new Directors with an overview of our who was selected due to her experience as Senior strategy, the competitive environment, Group Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the structure and governance and risk profile and appetite.
Remuneration Committee of Royal Mail plc, Chair of Training is available on an ongoing basis to meet any Client Service at Eden McCallum, Deputy Chair of the particular needs.
National Trust and within the Group.
The Board was of the opinion that Orna had a good feel for what we do A structured programme has been put in place for as a business, our values, and what is right for our Patrick OSullivan to ensure that he: customers, and had made a strong contribution during her time on the Board.
receives strategic and business information, including our five year plan: Whilst we did not make any appointments to the Board gains an understanding of the Group structure and during the year, the Nomination Committee did discuss our risk profile: how the Company would ensure that there is the right meets members of the Group Executive and senior level of oversight of the regulated businesses within the management: Group and that those companies had senior leaders spends time in all business areas, to experience the with the right experience in place.
More details can be culture and listening to calls in our call centres: and found in the Nomination Committee report on pages receives feedback from shareholders, analysts 66-68. and brokers.
In October 2017, we announced that Andrew Goodsell Annual re-election intended to retire from the Board and step down from The Directors are standing for re-election at the AGM, his position as Chairman.
The process to recruit a with the exception of Andrew Goodsell who retires from new Chairman, led by Orna NiChionna as Senior the Group on 30 April 2018.
The Boards view is that Independent Director and overseen by the Nomination each of the Directors standing for re-election should be Committee, began immediately.
On 19 February 2018, re-appointed and that Patrick OSullivan who is Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 64 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements standing for election should be appointed.
We believe delivery of the technology strategy and solutions: that they have the skills required for the Board to communication of the strategy and performance discharge its responsibilities, as outlined in each to shareholders: of their biographies set out on pages 62-63. risk evaluation: and getting a picture of behaviours and culture.
Board effectiveness review The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success A report prepared by Independent Audit Limited was of the Group.
The Board undertakes an evaluation presented to the Board.
As a result of this in-depth process each year to assess how it, its Committees discussion, a Board development plan was agreed and and individual directors are performing.
discussed further with Independent Audit Limited.
Last year the Board and its Committees undertook the The review concluded that progress has been made first externally facilitated evaluation of their performance.
in numerous development areas, particularly in relation The evaluation was conducted by Independent Audit to Board information and the way issues are brought Limited which reviewed Board and Committee papers, to the Board to provide the right opportunity for observed Board and Committee meetings and held discussion.
There remains scope for further interviews with Directors and Committee members strengthening of: and attendees.
the structure of the information provided to make Key findings from the 2016 2017 review sure a clear picture of how performance links to key Governance had developed well since the drivers is brought to the Board: and Company had listed and there was a healthy board papers, so that these consistently benefit culture of transparency.
from good summaries, positioning and analysis to A strong and stable management team was in place.
help the Board ensure that growth and initiatives There was good coverage of the principal risks and are on track.
The Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive The interests of a wide group of stakeholders were Directors also evaluated the Chairmans performance considered and attention was given to the Groups and the Senior Independent Director provided feedback people strategy.
The action plan arising from the 2016 17 evaluation Board development plan for 2018 19 included: The Board will continue to ensure that the content of The development of a forward thinking annual planner.
all Board meetings remains aligned to strategy and A key focus of Board meetings on strategic the key drivers of performance.
Risk management will continue to link directly to strategic drivers and principal discussions.
Increased use of executive summaries of papers risks and uncertainties.
Off-site strategy days are used to set and reflect on progression of the Companys submitted to the Board, so that key messages were highlighted and Non-Executive Directors were clear strategy.
These sessions also allow the Board to discuss the strategic priorities for the year ahead.
on the purpose of the discussion.
2017 18 review The Board agreed that the 2017 2018 review should Process for Board and Committee evaluation also be carried out by Independent Audit Limited, as this would provide a consistent approach and allow for Questionnaire prepared by Independent Audit effective tracking against the previous years action Limited based on actions identified from last plan.
Independent Audit Limited does not have any years evaluation and recent trading performance other connection to the Company.
and circulated to Directors This took a more limited approach than in the previous Report produced by year and was based on Independent Audit Limiteds Independent Audit Limited analysis of a self-assessment.
This was focused on assessing progress in the areas identified during last Review discussion with Chairman and years review as opportunities for further development.
Committee Chairs Independent Audit Limited circulated a questionnaire to all Directors so that they could express their views Discussed at Board on areas such as: discussion of performance relating to initiatives for Action plans prepared driving growth: information and reporting on KPIs, issues and risks: customer strategy and focus: Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 65
