Governance Nomination Committee Report Role of the Committee Our role is to review Board composition, consider succession planning and evaluate the skills required in Board candidates.
Until Philip Green resigned, the Committee members consisted of five independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
From 31 March 2017, there have been four independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman forming the Committee.
Attendance During the year, the Committee met on five occasions.
Member Attendance 1 Orna NiChionna Chair 5 1 Philip Green Chair 1 Dear Shareholder, 2 I am pleased to present this report from the Nomination Andrew Goodsell 3 Committee on what has been a busy and important Ray King 5 year for Saga.
I became Chair of the Committee and Bridget McIntyre 5 Senior Independent Director of the Company when Philip Green resigned from the Board in March 2017.
Gareth Williams 5 The demands being placed on the Nomination Notes: Committee are increasing in terms of regulatory and 1 Orna NiChionna was appointed Chair, Nomination Committee, public scrutiny.
Succession planning is part of this, as on 31 March 2017, when Philip Green resigned as a Director of the Company are Board evaluation and diversity in its myriad forms 2 Andrew Goodsell did not attend meetings at which his all reflected in the FRCs proposed enhancements to proposed successor was discussed the UK Corporate Governance Code that will crystallise over the coming year.
The Company Secretary, Vicki Haynes, attends all meetings as secretary to the Committee.
The Group In October, our Chairman, Andrew Goodsell, announced Chief Executive Officer, Lance Batchelor, and Group his intention to retire from the Board in 2018 and I led HR Director, Karen Caddick, attend by invitation.
the process to appoint a new Chairman for the Group.
I am pleased to report that this resulted in the Our terms of reference appointment of Patrick O Sullivan who will join the Our terms of reference were reviewed by the Company as Non-Executive Director and Chairman Committee and subsequently approved by the Board on 1 May 2018.
Patrick fitted our brief particularly well on 20 September 2017.
These explain our role and the due to his combination of strong leadership qualities authority delegated by the Board and are available and deep experience in insurance and we were on the Saga website at http: corporate.
co. uk delighted to secure him as our next Chairman.
 corporate-governance and from the Company Secretary at Sagas registered office.
We have devoted a considerable amount of our attention this year to succession planning and talent development, not only of the Board, but also of the breadth and depth of executive talent below Board level.
We also considered the composition of the Board with Philip and Andrews departure and when Patrick joins we will draw on his views on the composition of the Board to support delivery of the strategy.
Orna NiChionna Chair, Nomination Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 66 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements A summary of our remit In accordance with the Groups diversity and dignity To review the structure, size and composition policy and the Code, candidates were assessed including the skills, knowledge, independence, against their strategic skill set, experience in leading experience and diversity of the Board and to make large organisations, listed company experience recommendations with regard to any changes.
Consideration was also given To prepare a description of the role, capabilities to diversity and whether individuals met the and expected time commitment required for independence criteria set out in the Code.
Following best practice as recommended by the Code, To consider succession planning and talent the Chairman did not participate in the interviews or development for Directors and other senior the discussions regarding terms of appointment or executives, to ensure a progressive refresh recommendations to the Board.
To review the results of the Board performance Succession planning and talent development evaluation process that relate to the composition The Committee has continued to oversee the of the Board.
development of Group Executive Committee members and of the Top Team mainly direct reports to What we have done during the year members of the Executive Committee.
We have been Time spent on matters pleased with the progress that has been made since Chairman succession our last report, there is a sound talent review framework c. 10% Executive succession and which is now well-established, the leadership training talent development programme continues to receive strong feedback and Board evaluation and current c. 15% there is a strengthened pipeline of candidates for the NED re-appointments c. 40% Executive and a much stronger succession Diversity planning process.
The Committee maintains a continuous review of the performance of individuals, plans for future roles, c. 35% the structure of the Executive Committee, the succession plan and relevant priorities, whilst keeping front of mind the strategic trajectory of the Group.
Part of this involves considering the rotation of Top Appointment process for Chairman Team players through appropriate roles to prepare Our terms of reference set out how we recruit and them for succession.
appoint Directors to the Board.
They stipulate that we will use open advertising or the services of external Many of the actions arising from this aspect of our advisers to facilitate a search for the best possible work fall to Lance Batchelor as Group CEO, and to candidates from a wide range of backgrounds.
Karen Caddick as Group HR Director, either together or individually, along with the wider Executive Team.
MWM Consulting was appointed by the Committee In some circumstances, individual Committee members to support us in searching for a new Chairman.
MWM are directly involved when their particular skills and Consulting has been involved in appointing other experience are relevant.
For example, Ray King is Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Group working with candidates in the pipeline for financial, and has no other connection with the Company.
risk and internal control roles.
A rigorous process was followed including careful Not only does this approach provide an opportunity for reflection on the leadership needs of the Group at this the Committee to have oversight of the talent planning time, an appraisal of the skills and experience required process and its integration with the strategy, it also in a Chairman and the time commitment needed for allows us to engage with Executive Team members, to the role.
The Committee felt that insurance experience meet potential internal successors and to get involved was important and a detailed job specification and in mentoring likely candidates for promotion.
timetable were produced to assist with the search.
Internal and external searches were conducted, and a shortlist was developed.
A series of interviews with all independent members of the Committee and the Group CEO followed, references were obtained and terms of appointment were considered.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 67 Governance Nomination Committee Report continued Board composition Board evaluation At the heart of our remit is a detailed understanding The Board evaluation process is outlined on page 65. of the Boards and the Board Committees structure, Committee members discussed the findings of the size and composition.
report produced by Independent Audit Limited in relation to the composition of the Board.
Based on the Current Non-Executive Director reappointments self assessment, it was felt that the Directors worked and renewal of three year terms well together and that the skills required to ensure that During the year but prior to the publication of the last the Board was effective had been considered as part Annual Report, the Committee considered the profiles of the search process for a Chairman and on an of the Directors being put forward for re-election.
We decided that all those who wished to stand were suitable and had performed well during the year and Effectiveness of the Nomination Committee recommended to the Board that all should be put An external evaluation of the Committees forward.
We also paid special attention to those NEDs effectiveness took place during the year, as part of the at the end of their first three year term Ray King, Board effectiveness review for details see page 65.
Gareth Williams and I and recommended that This was completed by Independent Audit Limited.
they should be reappointed for a further three years.
The review indicated that the Committee is taking a Individuals did not participate in the discussion when thorough approach to succession planning and talent their own reappointment was being considered.
It was felt that the search for a new Chairman had run smoothly and that there had been After the year end, but prior to the publication of this good discussion throughout.
Looking ahead, the Annual Report, the Committee considered each Committee will continue to focus on the need to factor Directors contribution and the time commitment in expertise that links with the strategic direction of necessary to perform their duties.
was made to the Board that all Directors be put forward for re-election.
Diversity The Company has a diversity and dignity policy in Orna NiChionna place to provide equal opportunity for all individuals Chair, Nomination Committee and the same employment conditions in relation to any protected characteristic of any individual.
This policy applies to the Group, including the Board of Directors.
The policy does not set specific targets.
Individuals including executives and Board members are selected, promoted and treated according to their ability, merits and the requirements of the relevant position.
This equal opportunities policy entails taking practical steps to promote a working environment in which all employees are treated with dignity and respect, free from discrimination and harassment.
The diversity and dignity policy was reissued to all staff in November 2017 and is available on the staff intranet.
All employees are expected to co-operate in making this policy effective and to adhere to it and report any breaches of the policy, whether actual or perceived, to their line manager or to Human Resources.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 68
