OUR EXECUTIVE TEAM Meet the Executive Team Sanjay Almeida Vicki Bradin Blair Crump Amanda Cusdin Sanjay Almeida 45 Blair Crump 57 Chief Product Delivery Officer President Sanjay joined Sage as Chief Product Delivery Officer For Blair Crumps skills and experience see page 76. inOctober 2017, responsible for the product strategy and delivery of Sages full suite of products.
Sanjay joined Sage Amanda Cusdin 41 from SAP, where he had been Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer Chief Product Officer of the companys Ariba business sinceOctober 2015.
Amanda became interim Chief People Officer in October 2017, having joined Sage in March 2015.
In September 2018, Prior to this, Sanjay spent ten years at Concur Technologies, Amanda was appointed permanent Chief People Officer.
before the company was acquired by SAP.
Here he held senior positions in Research & Development, before being Amanda has 18 years of HR experience across several made Senior Vice President of Global Product Management globalFTSE organisations in a variety of sectors where she and Strategy.
focused on supporting executive leaders to drive change and transformation.
During her career to date Amanda has Sanjay has an MBA in General Management from the built extensive experience across the Americas, Asia and Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University.
She has led specifically in M&A, growth in new geographies and working across cultures and matrix Vicki Bradin 40 organisations.
Amanda has also specialised in talent General Counsel and CompanySecretary development to executive level.
Vicki joined Sage in 2016 from former FTSE 250 software Passionate about developing talent and leadership company Misys now Finastra, where she was Associate andcreating truly inclusive organisations which promote General Counsel.
In her role at Misys, Vicki was responsible diversity, Amanda has a Bachelors degree in History from for M&A, litigation, risk, intellectual property and more.
the University of Warwick and postgraduate qualifications inHuman Resources Management.
After graduating from Nottingham University, Vicki qualified as a solicitor in the City of London.
Vicki spent her early Steve Hare 57 career working as a corporate lawyer in global and magic Chief Executive Officer circle law firms before moving in-house working in large multi-nationals and UK public limited companies, helping For Steve Hares skills and experience see page 77. grow and transform businesses whilst managing their regulatory and litigation risk.
78 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Steve Hare Ron McMurtrie Rob Reid Klaus-Michael Vogelberg Rob served as president of Concur Commerce Network, Ron McMurtrie 53 ane-marketplace for small to mid-sized businesses, and Chief Marketing Officer also as President and CEO of Seeker Software.
Ron joined Sage in 2017 and leads marketing across the Company, inspiring long-term relationships through Klaus-Michael Vogelberg 53 creativity and innovation.
Chief Technology Officer Ron aligns the strategic direction of product, brand, digital Responsible for Sages technology strategy and software marketing and communications including public affairs, architecture, Klaus-Michael joined us when Sage acquired andoversees key functional areas for new customer the German KHK Software group in 1997.
Having been R&D acquisition, building customers for life, and advancing Director and a partner of that business Klaus-Michael went Sages cloud strategy.
on to act as R&D Director for Sage in the UK and Ireland from 2004 to 2007 before taking on his current role.
Before joining Sage, Ron was global Chief Marketing Officer at Recall, an information management company, leading A software entrepreneur, Klaus-Michael set up his first worldwide marketing strategy and operations.
Previously, business aged 19 while studying aeronautical engineering Ron has over 20 years experience in similar roles for and national economics.
brandsincluding VCE the joint venture between Cisco, EMC and VMware First Data, Verizon and MCI.
Ron is a multi-dimensional leader with budgetary and personnel responsibility spanning direct sales, marketing, enterprise consulting and professional services in private and publicsector markets.
Ron was appointed permanent Chief Marketing Officer in July 2018.
Rob Reid 68 Managing Director, Sage Intacct With more than 30 years experience in the software Keith Robinson industry, Rob has a proven track record of driving explosive In FY18 Keith Robinson, growth at innovative companies, and has demonstrated a Chief Strategy Officer, deep expertise in bringing cloud computingto the world wasappointed as advisor ofbusiness applications.
Keith has a wealth of SaaS Rob served most recently as president and CEO of LucidEra, experience both from working a market leader for on-demand business intelligence.
Prior in and investing in technology, to that, he was group vice president of industry-leading having previously worked at Siebel CRM On Demand for Oracle Corporation, managing Lamond Capital Partners LLC, the SMB sector.
As president and CEO of on-demand CRM Arma Partners and Gartner.
innovator UpShot, Rob grew the company tenfold before it was acquired by Siebel.
