BOARD OF DIRECTORS Bringing knowledge and experience to the table Donald Brydon 73 Neil Berkett 63 Blair Crump 57 Drummond Hall 69 Chairman Independent Executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director N A R A N R Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 6July 2012 5July 2013 1January 2018 1January 2014 Donald brings to the Board his Neil has significant experience Blair has significant leadership Drummond brings a wealth wealth of experience gained as in leading change within experience within the ofexperience gained across a Chairman of companies across organisations whilst retaining technology sector and a strong number of customer-focused a wide range of sectors.
Since the focus on customer background in sales, customer blue-chip businesses in the UK, being appointed as Chairman experience.
He is able to bring service and driving growth Europe and the US.
His strong of Sage, Donald has overseen this insight and knowledge to gained during his years in appreciation of customer comprehensive changes to the the transformation at Sage and thissector.
Blair holds a BSc service and marketing brings composition of the Board and our customer-focused strategy.
inEconomics from The deep insight into Sage as we Committees and navigated the Wharton School, University focus on ways to expand our Past experience Company and Board through ofPennsylvania.
markets and delight our Neil has over 30 years significant change.
customers with our technology experience in a wide range of Past experience and service levels.
Past experience highly competitive consumer Blair was appointed to the Donald had a 20-year career industries.
He was Chief Board on 1 January 2018 having Past experience with Barclays Group, during Executive of Virgin Media joined Sage in August 2016 in Drummond was previously which time he was Chairman Group from March 2008 to the newly created position of Chief Executive of Dairy Crest and Chief Executiveof BZW June2013, having joined ntl, President, leading on sales and Group plc from 2002 to 2006, Investment Management, Virgin Medias predecessor, customer service across the having joined the company in followed by 15years with the asChief Operating Officer in Group.
Prior to this the majority AXA Group, including the September 2005.
Before ntl Texas-based profit realisation of his career was spent with postsof Chairman and Chief hewas Managing Director, company PROS Holdings, Procter and Gamble, Mars and Executive of AXA Investment Distribution, at Lloyds TSB plc.
where he was Chief Operating Pepsi Co. Drummond was a Managers and Chairman His previous roles include Chief Officer.
Previously, Blair led Non-executive Director of ofAXA Framlington.
Operating Officer at Prudential Salesforce.
coms Global Mitchells & Butlers plc from He has formerly chaired Assurance Company Ltd UK, Enterprise business, reporting July 2004 to January 2010 and theLondon Metal Exchange, Head of Retail at St George into CEO Marc Benioff, and Chairman from June 2008 to Amersham plc, Taylor Nelson Bank, Senior General Manager prior to this spent five years November 2009.
Drummond Sofres plc, the ifs School of at the Australian division of atVerizon Business, where was appointed Senior Finance, Smiths Group plc, Citibank Limited, Chief hewas appointed Group Independent Non-executive Royal Mail plc and EveryChild.
Executive at Eastwest Airlines President.
Blair was also at MCI Director on 28 February 2017.
Donald has also served as Australia and Financial Communications for 23 years, Other current appointments: Senior Independent Director Controller at ICL Australia.
before its acquisition by Verizon WH Smith plc Senior ofAllied Domecq plc and in 2006.
Other current appointments: Independent Non-executive Scottish Power plc.
Guardian Media Group Other current appointments: Director Other current appointments: Chairman None First Group plc Senior London Stock Exchange NSPCC Chairman elect Independent Non-executive Group Plc Chairman Director Medical Research Council Chairman Changes to the Board during the year and up to the date of Board committees A Audit and Risk Committee See page 92 this report N Nomination Committee See page 101 Blair Crump joined the Board on 1 January 2018.
Stephen Kelly stooddown from the Board with effect from 31August 2018.
R Remuneration Committee See page 103 Steve Hare was appointed interim Chief Operating Officer in addition to his role as Chief Financial Officer on 31August 2018 and Steve was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 2 November 2018.
76 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Steve Hare 57 Jonathan Howell 56 Soni Jiandani 52 Cath Keers 53 CEO and CFO Independent Independent Independent Executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director A R N R Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 1July 2017 3January 2014 and as CEO 15May 2013 28February 2017 Cath brings a wealth of digital on 2 November 2018 Jonathans significant financial Soni has extensive experience and customer experience Steve has significant financial, and accounting experience, in marketing and driving insights to the Board, together operational and transformation across a number of sectors industry transformation with a deep understanding of experience which includes coupled with his role as through market disruption.
leveraging sales and marketing driving change programmes in Chairman of the Audit and Herbackground of bringing activity to build successful a number of his previous roles.
RiskCommittee, allow him to innovative technologies to brands.
This experience allows him provide substantial insight into market is a valuable addition toensure Sage continues the Groups financial reporting tothe Boards skills Past experience toperform strongly whilst and risk management andexperience.
Cath started her retail career delivering the recent processes.
with Thorn EMI and, after Past experience transformation and positioning marketing and business Past experience An engineer by background, Sage for continued growth.
development roles at Sky TV, Jonathan recently leftthe role Soni has over 25 years Avon and Next, joined the Past experience of Group Finance Director of experience in the technology BTGroup in 1996, holding a Prior to joining Sage as CFO, Close Brothers Group plc, after industry, including 22 years number of commercial roles, Steve was Operating Partner 10 years, to pursue the next atCisco where she held the including Marketing Director and Co-Head of the Portfolio stage of hiscareer, having position of SVP, Marketing.
O2, Chairman of Tesco Mobile Support Group at theprivate joined in February 2008.
He During her time at Cisco, and Customer Director O2, equity firm Apax Partners, previously held the same sheled a team which was where she was in charge of which he joined in 2009.
Before position at the London Stock responsible for establishing refocusing the organisations his work at Apax Partners, he Exchange Group plc from 1999. multi-billion dollar revenue customer strategy.
Cath has built over 10 years experience Jonathan has also been a streams in the Switching, held non-executive roles leading the finance function Non-executive Director of Storage Networking and Server inanumber of FTSE-250 forthree listed UK companies EMAP plc and Chairman of markets.
She was also part of companies, including most culminating as CFO for FTSE FTSE International.
The early the team that established many recently Royal Mail Group plc.
100 company Invensys plc from part of his career wasat Price successful, company-funded 2006 to 2009.
Between 2004 Waterhouse wherehe qualified start-ups which were Other current appointments: and 2006 Steve was Group as a chartered accountant.
subsequently acquired Funding Circle plc Finance Director for Spectris spin-ins which provided Independent Non-executive Other current appointments: plc, the FTSE 250 precision access to adjacent markets.
Director: None instrumentation andcontrols Prior to joining Cisco, Soni held TalkTalk Telecom Group plc company, and from 1997 to marketing executive positions Independent Non- 2003 he was with Marconi plc, at UB Networks and Excelan.
executive Director: serving as CFO from 2001.
Other current appointments: Ustwo Fampany Ltd Steve was appointed interim None Chairman Chief Operating Officer in addition to his role as CFO on31 August 2018 and was appointed CEO on 2 November 2018.
Steve qualified as a chartered accountant in 1985 with Ernst & Whinney, now part of Ernst & Young LLP, and has a Bachelor of Commerce degree from Liverpool University.
Other current appointments: None The Sage Group plc.
