Governance Audit Committee Report Committee composition and attendance All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that I have recent and relevant financial experience and competence in accounting reflecting my professional qualification as a chartered accountant and relevant experience during my career.
The Board is also satisfied that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
During the year, the Committee met on four occasions.
Member Attendance Ray King Chair 4 1 Philip Green 1 Dear Shareholder, Bridget McIntyre 4 I am pleased to report on the Audit Committees Orna NiChionna 4 activities during the year to January 2018.
Throughout Gareth Williams 4 the year, we monitored the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, reviewed and reported to Note: the Board on significant financial reporting issues and 1 Philip Green resigned on 31 March 2017 judgements, and reviewed and assessed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the controls and other internal control systems.
In Committee and attends all meetings.
In addition, the performing our work, we liaised closely with the Groups Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, Group Chief auditors KPMG and Sagas Internal Audit team.
Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Head of Internal Audit and I am pleased to confirm that the Committee believes representatives from our external auditors attend by that it has fully discharged its responsibilities for the invitation.
During the year, the Committee held private reporting year under its terms of reference.
These terms meetings with the external auditors and Head of were reviewed by the Committee and subsequently Internal Audit: I also had regular update meetings approved by the Board on 18 September 2017.
minor changes were made to our remit, notably to reflect the authority given by shareholders at the AGM A summary of our remit for the Committee to approve the external auditors To monitor the integrity of financial statements of fees.
The Committees terms of reference are available the Company and provide an opinion to the Board on the Saga website at http: corporate.
co. uk that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a  corporate-governance and from whole, is fair balanced and understandable.
the Company Secretary at Sagas registered office.
To review and report to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
To review and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and other internal control systems.
To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit function, in the context Ray King of the Companys overall risk management system.
Chair, Audit Committee To assess the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors and review the external audit work plan and findings of their audit.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 74 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Committee considered the existence of any What we have done during the year indicators of impairment of the Parent Company Time spent on matters investment in subsidiaries and a subsequent appraisal of the assets recoverable amount.
Financial statements In both instances, the Committee considered Internal financial controls alternative measures of enterprise value to help c. 25% Internal Audit validate the outcome of the impairment c. 25% Business reviews assessment.
External audit Valuation of pension scheme obligations.
The Committee reviewed the period-on-period movements in the value of the Groups defined c. 15% benefit pension scheme obligations.
We gained c. 20% insight into the assumptions used and how these c. 15% compared to industry benchmarks, to ensure that those obligations were valued appropriately.
The Committee supported the key accounting Reporting judgements and noted that the insurance reserve Interim and full year results margin was consistently prudent and within an The interim and full year results were reviewed, appropriate range.
together with papers from management summarising the process of preparing the financial statements, As a result of this process, the Committee was the appropriateness and application of key accounting satisfied that the key accounting choices and policies, and the areas of significant judgement, judgements were appropriate and served to provide including how those judgements were made.
Reports a true and fair view of the Companys financial were also received from KPMG at the conclusion of statements and advised the Board in order for the their work on the interim and full year results and appropriate statement to be made page 54. during the process of their audit.
The reports on the Fair, balanced and understandable full year results included specific focus on those areas At the request of the Board, the Committee has identified as having significant audit risk or other considered whether, in its opinion, this Annual Report audit emphasis.
and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Judgements understandable and whether it provides the information We considered the following key areas of significant necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups judgement and issues: performance, business model and strategy.
Valuation of insurance contracts liabilities and We advised the Board that we supported the associated reinsurance assets, including the statement made on page 54 after considering whether: funds withheld quota share contract for the key messages were given suitable prominence: motor insurance book the report clearly described business performance The Committee considered the level of actuarial and presented a balanced view of the opportunities best estimate held for outstanding case reserves and challenges: and claims incurred but not yet reported IBNR, the reporting on the business segments, significant and the level of reserve margin held for issues and key judgements in the narrative was uncertainty over and above that best estimate consistent with the disclosures in the financial in the financial statements for the Group, as statements: proposed and monitored by the AICL Reserving the key performance indicators were disclosed Committee.
at an appropriate level: and Valuation of goodwill and the Parent Companys the definitions were provided, the basis for their investment in subsidiaries, and impairment testing use was explained and reconciliations made of thereof, including sensitivity analysis and alternative performance measures to the closest stress testing.
IFRS measure in the financial statements.
The Committee considered managements impairment review of goodwill and gained an understanding of the level of headroom in that calculation and the sensitivity of that headroom to changes in key drivers, such as the Groups cash flow forecasts for each cash generating unit CGU and the discount rate used.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 75 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Viability statement Financial crime The Groups methodology for production of its viability We reviewed policies covering financial crime including statement is set out on page 73.
The viability anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-fraud and statement itself is made on page 54. whistleblowing.
As part of our oversight procedures, we reviewed the minutes of the Financial Crime, Data We considered the list of principal risks and and Information Security Committee.
Consideration uncertainties which had been reviewed and approved and discussion of a Financial Crime Report is now a by the Risk Committee see pages 26-29 and the standing feature of the Committees activities.
We methodology used to provide for an assessment of noted that there had been a significant improvement ongoing viability.
We specifically considered: in the detection and management of fraud, particularly in regard to credit card and insurance fraud, which is the relevant assessment time period: attributable to increased resource and awareness.
the list of principal risks and uncertainties and associated severe but plausible potential Whistleblowing outcomes: and We received a whistleblowing report at each meeting.
the appropriateness of the scenarios modelled.
Consistent with enhanced communication of the whistleblowing procedure, there was an increase in the We confirmed to the Board that we considered that it number of cases reported during the year.
After review, was reasonable for the Directors to make the viability it was clear that nearly all incidents were of a minor statement on page 54. nature.
We were comfortable that cases had been handled and investigated appropriately and that the Audit and control communication and escalation processes were Financial controls working well.
A description of Sagas internal financial controls is presented on page 69.
Internal Audit Oversight of the Internal Audit department is a key As part of our ongoing oversight, key internal controls part of our work.
Its work is risk based, covers both were included in the internal audit programme and financial and non-financial controls and includes reviewed by the Committee.
The Group Financial consideration of risk culture and the level of Controller provided an update on accounting issues, engagement by the business area being audited.
We key aspects of financial controls and risk management monitored the responsiveness of management to the at every meeting.
internal auditors findings and recommendations.
The Committee also considered whether the assurance The Committee examined the preparation work for the provided by Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit teams adoption of the new IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and provided satisfactory coverage of the Groups risk IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition accounting standards environment.
This included reviewing the results of the for the next financial year 2018 19 and IFRS 16 internal auditors work and the assurance from Internal Leases for 2019 20.
The Committee agreed that IFRS Audit on its 3rd line of defence review of the 9 did not have any material impact on the Group and functioning of the risk management framework.
that it would not be adopted early.
It was noted that the Group had undertaken a review of its contracts with The department consists of eight people with a broad customers and applied the five-step model prescribed range of skills: we also source audit skills externally for by IFRS 15 to each of these.
It was also noted that IFRS specialised audits.
Taking the internal audits conducted 16 could impact the leasing contracts for the river throughout the year, the hours required to complete cruises business, for any lease contracts longer than 12 these and implementation of the internal audit plan months.
In such instances, the Group would be required into account, we are satisfied that the Internal Audit to recognise a right-of-use asset on its balance sheet function had appropriate resources throughout the year.
The Committee will consider the requirements of IFRS 17 Insurance In line with the recommendations of the IIA Standards, Contracts, expected implementation date 2021 22 in last year we carried out an external review of the due course.
The Committee concluded that the Group effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, facilitated was taking necessary steps for the implementation of by KPMG prior to their appointment as external auditor the new standards.
and the associated tender process.
They concluded that the function was competent, effective, well led, and strongly aligned to principal risks.
Areas of development were identified as the need to focus on emerging risks and more use of third-party specialists where appropriate.
The audit plan and audit process now includes greater emphasis on emerging risks and identification of areas for specialist technical input as a result.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 76 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We approved the Internal Audit Charter.
This is We discussed the FRC Audit Quality Review 2016 17 available on the Saga website at http: corporate.
and KPMGs relative position across the Big 4 firms.
We were reassured to hear that KPMG was undertaking a significant quality improvement plan.
The Committee Subsidiary committees is satisfied that the audit continues to be effective and At each meeting, we reviewed minutes from subsidiary provides an appropriate independent and objective Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meetings.
challenge to the Groups senior management.
We also received an annual update on activities from the independent non-executive directors who chair the Auditor independence and non-audit services Saga Services, Saga Personal Finance and AICL audit The objectivity and independence of KPMG was committees.
reviewed by the Committee and confirmed by the auditor throughout the year in a letter to the Committee.
External audit KPMG were appointed for the first time as our A robust non-audit fee policy is in place and is adhered statutory auditors at our AGM, in June 2017, following to.
This includes a list of non-audit services where we an open tender process.
The current audit partner are satisfied the external auditor can carry out those is Stuart Crisp, who has been in place since the services without affecting their role as external auditor.
We considered the external There are clear approval levels where the Committee auditors KPMG engagement terms including the Chair or the whole Committee is required to authorise fee proposal for 2017 18, and made recommendations assignments.
Competitive tendering is used for to the Board.
The Company has complied with the substantial work.
Statutory Audit Services Order for the financial year A policy on employment of former employees of the under review.
external auditor was also reviewed during the year and Audit planning approved on 4 December 2017.
This policy complies with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on KPMG presented an audit plan for the financial year, together with an outline of their risk assessments, Audit Committees and Revised Ethical Standard.
materiality thresholds and planned approach.
The key The audit fees payable to KPMG in respect of the aspects of the plan are set out in the Independent year ended 31 January 2018 were 1.0m 2017: 1.0m Auditors Report on pages 128-134. and non-audit service fees incurred were 0.2m 2017: 0.2m.
Fees in relation to 2017 were paid to the The Committee considered the audit scope and coverage, areas of audit focus and KPMGs planned previous external auditor.
This equates to a non-audit to audit fee ratio of 0.20 2017: 0.20.
A summary of response to identified significant audit risks, taking size, complexity and susceptibility to fraud error fees paid to the external auditor is set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on page 162. into account.
Effectiveness of the Committee Audit quality and effectiveness of external auditors To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, Evaluation An evaluation of the Committees effectiveness we considered: took place during the year, as part of the Board the external audit firms own quality control effectiveness review for details see page 65.
The procedures and the audit firms annual review indicated that the Committee is working well, transparency report: with an appropriate focus on external reporting and our perception of the external auditors accounting judgements.
There were no significant understanding and insights into the Groups development points requiring action identified.
business model: how KPMG approached key areas of judgement and the extent of challenge: the quality of the external auditors reporting to the Committee and their overall efficiency: and feedback from management, who were asked to Ray King complete an evaluation survey on the audit process Chair, Audit Committee and their interaction with the audit team and audit partners during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 77
