Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Accountability Risk management and internal control Top down: Group risk policy Saga plc Board and strategy Group risk appetite Principal risk oversight Group compliance oversight Group Audit and Risk Group CEO Committees Business board Bottom up: Business Audit, Business risk appetite Risk and Compliance Business denition and policy Committee Executive Identication, Committee assessment and mitigation of business specic risks Upward reporting of key residual risks Business Risk Committee Board assessment of risk management and During 2017, the Board has directly, or through delegated internal control authority to the Risk and Audit Committees, overseen The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups and reviewed the development and performance of risk management and internal control, including setting risk management activities and practices and internal the risk appetite.
In accordance with section C 2.3 of control systems in the Group.
Specific details regarding the Code, the Board is responsible for reviewing the the involvement of the Risk and Audit Committees in effectiveness of risk management and control the development and review of risk management and systems, ensuring that: internal control systems can be found in the Risk and Audit Committee reports on pages 78-81 and 74-77 there is an ongoing systematic process for respectively.
identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company: As a result of its consideration and contribution to risk this system has been in place for the year under management and internal control activities, the Board is satisfied that the risk management and internal review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: control systems in place remain effective.
the system is regularly reviewed by the Board: and the system accords with the FRC guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 69 Senior management External Audit Governance Accountability continued Risk management and control is achieved through of defence oversight functions.
Consideration of application of the three lines of defence model business risks is a standing agenda item at each as follows: executive meeting within the Group.
1st line of defence Risk taking by management, 2nd line of defence Independent oversight provided in line with agreed risk appetite, risk policies and by the various control functions, including risk, procedures.
Various governance forums in each compliance and health and safety.
Specific duties business review all risk exposures and risk mitigation include advice on Group and business risk appetites, activities on a regular basis, supported by the 2nd line independent review of both the rating of key risks, and Sagas three lines of defence risk governance model Governing body Board Audit Committee Senior management 1st line of 2nd line of 3rd line of defence defence defence Management Financial control controls Security Internal control Internal measures Risk management Audit Compliance Health and safety Group risk management cycle Group strategy Businessspecific risk Group risk appetite appetites Group risk policy Group strategy Risk assessment Independent policies assurance Risk review Risk review Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 70 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements approach and adequacy of business risk management Risk assessment and risk registers strategies.
The 2nd line of defence is also responsible All Saga businesses assess each risk for likelihood and for reporting on the management of principal risks impact.
Most use a common risk assessment matrix, and uncertainties to the Risk Committee and Board.
although several have a customised impact scale which reflects their size or the highly specialist nature of 3rd line of defence Independent assurance on their risks.
the operation and effectiveness of internal control throughout the Group, including consideration of the Each business creates appropriate controls to manage effectiveness of the risk management process.
Risks are rated on both an inherent and a The 3rd line of defence reports to the Board by way residual basis and are graded on a red, amber, yellow of the Audit Committee.
Risk assessments are reviewed at business risk committees and the principal risks are Sagas spread and variety of business operations subject to independent review by the Risk Committee.
require risk and internal control issues to be considered Explicit consideration is also given as to whether at both specialist business level and aggregated Group risks lie within or outside of risk appetite.
Risk and internal control oversight is provided by close to appetite limits on a residual basis is further all Committees and key concerns are raised to the examined to ensure that our desired risk reward Audit and Risk Committees and ultimately to the balance is maintained.
Risk registers have been created for each business The Financial Crime, Data and Information Security to capture their key risks, associated controls and Committee provides an additional forum to consider incidents.
The registers are typically sub-divided by specialist risks arising in these areas.
The highest-rated residual risks in terms of impact and probability for each Risk management cycle business are aggregated at Group level to produce Group risk management is an iterative cycle of a list of principal risks and uncertainties, assessed activities, comprising the following: at residual level against Group risk appetite.
Identification of risk appetite All business CEOs certified compliance with the risk Saga defines risk appetite as the amount and sources management framework at the year end.
of risk which we are willing to accept in aggregate in pursuit of our objectives.
Group risk appetite is derived Risk review from our strategic objectives and is used as a measure Reports on key risks and controls, and incidents, are against which all of our current and proposed activities presented to each governance forum meeting specified can be tested.
Group risk appetites and tolerances are in the risk governance chart on page 69.
In addition, further defined within the principal risks and checks against control effectiveness, and any exceptions uncertainties section pages 24-29. or overdue actions are also considered.
Each of these governance meetings is attended by key 1st and 2nd Business risk appetites are separately crafted, line of defence managers and the actions are minuted complementary to Group appetites but customised to and followed up at the next meeting.
Significant control reflect the specific needs and characteristics of each weaknesses or failures are escalated to the individual business.
Business risk appetites may be different to business board in question or, if of sufficient scale and Group appetites but cannot exceed them.
seriousness, to the Risk Committee.
Each Group risk committee also considers cross-Group risks and Group and business risk appetites are reviewed at least incidents to ensure the risk of contagion is minimised.
annually to ensure they are aligned with any changes in strategy or specific strategic initiatives.
Risk policies Saga has a Group risk policy that defines our risk management strategy, framework, governance structures, and detailed assessment and mitigation processes.
Beneath this Group document, individual business policies are created.
These are customised to reflect specific business characteristics but are still consistent with the overall risk management framework.
All risk policies are reviewed at least annually and approved at business or Group boards as appropriate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 71 Governance Accountability continued Risk oversight All activities of the Group fall within the scope of Independent oversight of the risk management process, Internal Audits remit and there are no restrictions on including key risks and their associated management, the scope of Internal Audits work.
Internal Audit fulfills incidents and compliance, is provided by the Chief Risk its role and responsibilities by delivering the annual, and Compliance Officer and the risk team, the risk-based audit plan.
Each audit within the plan compliance team, the Risk Committee and, ultimately, provides an opinion on the control environment and the Board.
Internal Audit works with the businesses to agree remedial actions necessary to Risk monitoring improve the control environment, and these are tracked All risk registers are independently reviewed by the risk to completion.
The Head of Internal Audit submits team on an ongoing basis to test for completeness of reports to, and or attends, Board and Audit Committee risk and control capture, effective testing of key control meetings for the subsidiary Saga businesses, as well as measures, and recording and reporting of any meetings of the Audit Committee.
Financial reporting Risk information The Group maintains a control environment that is All risk data, including risks, controls, control tests regularly reviewed by the Board.
The principal elements and incidents, is captured in an internet-enabled risk of the control environment include comprehensive portal.
This portal produces risk reports for all management and financial reporting systems and governance meetings.
processes, defined operating controls and authorisation limits, regular Board meetings, clear Independent process assurance subsidiary board and operating structures, and an Sagas Internal Audit function provides independent Internal Audit function.
assurance of the effectiveness of the risk management procedures at both Group and business levels.
Internal control and risk management systems relating to the financial reporting process and the process for Process feedback preparing consolidated accounts ensure the accuracy Outputs from the risk management cycle are fed back and timeliness of internal and external financial to the Risk Committee to assist with necessary revision reporting.
of the Group risk management policy and framework.
They may also be used to inform future iterations of The Group undertakes an annual strategy process the Groups strategy.
which updates the plan for the next five years and produces a detailed budget for the next financial year.
A statement confirming that the Board has carried out Detailed reforecasts are performed by each area of the a robust assessment of risks is contained on page 54.
Group every month and are consolidated to provide an updated view of expected performance for the current Internal control year.
Each reforecast covers the income statement and Internal Audit acts as the 3rd line of defence within cash flow and balance sheet positions, phased on a Sagas three lines of defence risk management monthly basis through to the end of the financial year.
The objective of Internal Audit is to help protect the assets, reputation and sustainability Regular weekly and monthly reporting cycles allow of the organisation by providing independent, reliable, management to assess performance and identify risks valued and timely assurance to the Board and and opportunities at the earliest opportunity.
To preserve the independence performance is formally reviewed on a weekly basis of Internal Audit, the Head of Internal Audits primary by the management of the trading subsidiaries, and reporting line is to the Chair of the Audit Committee, monthly by the management of the Group.
and the Internal Audit team is prohibited from Performance is reported to the Board at each Board performing operational duties for the business.
Performance is assessed against budget and against the latest forecast.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 72 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Group has an established and well-understood The three largest sensitivities in terms of financial management structure with documented levels for the impact were identified as the following: authorisation of business transactions and clear bank 1.
A f ailure to deliver the expected cumulative effect mandates to control the approval of payments.
Control of value-adding projects in Saga Services Limited.
of the Groups cash resources is operated by a 2.
A failure to drive passenger and per diem growth in Internal management reporting and external statutory our Cruise business following delivery of the new ships.
reporting timetables and delivery requirements are Three scenarios were then modelled for the assessment well established and documented.
Control of these period: the three largest sensitivities in terms of is maintained centrally and communicated regularly.
financial impact as if each were certain to occur The Group maintains computer systems to record and independently: the estimated financial impact for a consolidate all of its financial transactions.
These reasonably possible combination of these sensitivities ledger systems are used to produce the information for occurring at the same time: and a reverse stress test the monthly management accounts, and for the annual considering what PRU, or combination of PRUs, might statutory financial statements.
The trading subsidiaries lead to breach of performance and cash flow solvency within the Group prepare their accounts under Financial thresholds.
The outcome of this modelling confirmed that none The accounts production process ensures that there of the top three PRUs would compromise the Groups is a clear audit trail from the output of the Groups viability either in isolation or in combination, even if financial reporting systems, through the conversion they were all certain to occur.
The reverse stress test and consolidation processes, to the Groups financial demonstrated that the likelihood of a combination of statements.
PRUs causing us to breach performance and insolvency thresholds was remote.
Viability statement An assessment period of five years was selected.
As set out in the Audit Committee report on pages This is consistent with our long-term financial planning 74-77, the Directors have reviewed and discussed the horizon and importantly it embraces the construction rationale and conclusions of managements viability of our new cruise ships which will become operational testing.
The Directors viability statement is made on in 2019 and 2020. page 54.
Our list of principal risks and uncertainties PRUs Statement of review derived from our robust review of risks as described The Boards statement of review of the effectiveness on pages 71-73 was reviewed with risk owners, Group of Sagas risk management and internal control Finance and Group Risk to consider which risks might systems is contained on page 54. threaten the Groups ongoing viability.
These PRUs are given in the Strategic Report on pages 26-29.
All of the PRUs have been considered and severe but plausible outcomes for each have been identified.
The financial impact in terms of both profit and cash of each outcome has been quantified along with their likelihood of occurrence.
Assessments of potential financial impact were derived from both internal calculation and examples of similar incidents in the public domain.
A key assumption made in this assessment was that it is reasonable to believe that debt funding to replace the existing senior bank facilities when they mature will be available in all plausible market conditions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 73
