CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The role of the Board at Sage is to provide strategic leadership andeffective oversight ofthe Groups activities.
In order to achieve this, the Board receives regular reports from the Executive Directors and other senior leaders, and each meetings business aligns to an annual agenda which provides time to discuss broader themes and initiatives.
In particular, this year the Board has focused on: The Groups long-term strategy, and reviewing progress against strategic objectives: Considering Sages business culture, and embedding our Values and Behaviours: Our principal risks, risk appetite, and the manner in which thechanging external environment may affect Sages strategy: Our product portfolio, and our strategy for delivering new and innovative products together with continuous improvements inproduct quality: Inorganic growth and other future growth strategies: and Succession planning, including the recruitment of a new Chief Executive Officer, and talent development.
The Boards activities and focus during the year are described in more detail on pages 86 and 87.
80 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Board composition Conflicts of interest andindependence The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, manage conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
At each Board meeting, the Board The Board composition, including considers a register of interests and potential conflicts of Directors and gives, changes during the year, is set out when appropriate, any necessary approvals.
onpages 76 to 77 These pages also include details of the Directors skills and There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to experience.
The Directors have a range authorise a conflict or potential conflict, with only those Directors who have ofexperience and can bring independent no interest in the matter taking the decision.
No conflicts of interest have judgement to bear on issues of strategy, been identified during the year.
performance, resources and standards of conduct.
This experience and judgement are considered vital to our success.
Board and Committee meetings andattendance It is the balance of skills, experience, Sub- & Disclosure Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration independence and knowledge of our Director Board Committees Committee Committee Committee Directors which ensures the duties and Donald Brydon 10 10 7 7 5 5 responsibilities of the Board and its Steve Hare 10 10 7 7 committees are discharged effectively.
Drummond Hall 9 10 4 5 5 5 8 8 Jonathan Howell 10 10 6 7 5 5 8 8 The Board monitors the independence of its Non-executive Directors, particularly Neil Berkett 10 10 5 5 6 8 any who have given long service.
Having Soni Jiandani 10 10 4 5 reviewed the current Board, the NonCath Keers 9 10 8 8 executive Directors are all considered 1 Blair Crump 8 8 tobe independent.
Donald Brydon was 2 Stephen Kelly 7 9 1 3 considered independent at the date of hisappointment.
1 Blair Crump was appointed on 1 January 2018.
2 Stephen Kelly stood down as a Director on 31 August 2018 and all of his absences The Board has considered the Chairmans above, other than one Disclosure Committee meeting, relate to meetings at which role and determined that Donald Brydon his resignation was discussed.
has appropriate time and resource to devote to his role as Chairman of Sage.
AllDirectors are subject to election or The Board meets not less than six times per year.
During FY18, it met re-election by shareholders at each seventimes in person, with a further three telephone meetings dealing Annual General Meeting.
withmattersarising in between scheduled meetings.
A sub-committee of theBoard and, since February 2018, a formal Disclosure Committee, dealt with, among other things, the approval of Sages full year, half year and Diversity quarterly results announcements.
The Board has due regard for the benefitsof diversity in its membership Induction and professional development andin senior executive positions.
We strive to maintain the right diversity During 2018, no new Non-executive Directors were appointed.
Blair Crump balance, including gender, age, joined the Board as an Executive Director and, in view of his having held a professional background, cognitive senior executive position with Sage since 2016, received a focused induction andpersonal strengths, whilst ensuring in respect of the expectations and duties of a director of a UK-listed company that appointments reflect the most as well as meeting the Companys key external advisers.
The Chairman seeks to ensure that the composition of To assist the Board in undertaking its responsibilities, training is available toall Directors and training needs are assessed as part of the annual Board the Board includes individuals with deep knowledge and experience, bringing evaluation.
In addition to training and updates on industry and corporate governance developments, in 2018 we continued our formal Director awide range of perspectives to the business.
You can read more about engagement programme.
This programme is designed to give the Board the opportunity to learn more about the business, whilst also giving colleagues, howthe Nomination Committee has implemented the diversity policy, and customers and partners a direct line of communication with the Board.
The activities covered ranged from formal structured roundtables to informal results during the reporting period, onpage 102. lunches and included the areas of focus of the Board for this financial year.
The Board, as at You can read more about the Boards engagement activities on page 88. the date of this Annual 75% 25% Report & Accounts, All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary comprises 25% women who ensures that Directors take independent professional advice when it is 2017: 25%.
judged necessary in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Female Male The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Our governance framework The Board Our Board provides leadership to the business as a whole Sets Sages long-term strategy and associated risk appetite to drive it forward for the benefit, and having regard to the Has overall responsibility for risk management and systems of views, of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
internal control Ensures processes are in place to identify and manage the see pages 76 to 77 for the Boards composition Groups principal risks Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Officer oversees the Groups reviews the determines responsible for financial reporting, composition of the theframework, management of the riskmanagement Board and plans for its policyandlevels Group as a whole andinternal control progressive refreshing ofremuneration delivers strategic procedures and the with regard tobalance andmakes objectives within workof its internal and structure as well recommendations theBoards stated andexternal auditors as succession tothe Board on the riskappetite planning remuneration of the considers wider Chief Executive elements of Officer, Chairman, succession planning Executive Directors, below Board level, the Company including diversity Secretary and seniorexecutives oversees the creation Executive and implementation Committee of all-employee implements strategy, shareplans operational plans, budgets, policies andprocedures responsible for monitoring operating and financial performance responsible for assessing and controlling risks responsible for prioritising and allocating resources responsible formonitoring competitive forces in each area of operation under the direction ofthe CEO Read Jonathan Read Donald Read Drummond Howells Audit and Brydons Nomination Halls Remuneration see pages 78 to 79 for the Risk Committee Committee report Committee report Executive Committees report on page 92 on page 101 on page 103 composition Delegates authority Reports back on progress 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Beneath the Executive Committee there exists a clearly Risk management defined organisational management structure and a andinternal controls governance framework consisting of sub-committees, The Board retains overall responsibility eachof which reports directly or indirectly into one of for setting Sages risk appetite and theCommittees referenced above.
These sub-committees forrisk management and internal operate within defined terms of reference and in accordance control systems.
with Sages suite of global governance policies, which include Finance, IT, Procurement, Legal and HR policies In accordance with section C. 2.3 of aswell as Sages Code of Conduct.
All decisions made by theCode, the Board is responsible individuals or by committee and which involve financial forreviewing their effectiveness.
spend or an associated risk are governed by Sages Therelevant confirmation statement Delegation of Authority matrix DOA.
The DOA is structured iscontained within the Strategic to ensure that day-to-day operational decisions can be Report on page 73. taken efficiently, whilst driving higher-risk and high-value commitments for approval through the appropriate channels.
By maintaining this structure, we gain assurance that our operations are being run effectively and that decisions are made in line with our commitment to alwaysdo business the right way.
The terms of reference of each Committee, You can read more about which are reviewed on an annual basis, our risk management and can be found on our website internal controls systems www.
inour Strategic Report on pages 70 to 73 and the associated work of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 92 to 100.
Meeting logistics: timing, preparation and content Board evaluation 2017 18 ofBoard packs: The UK Corporate Governance Code stipulates that Effectiveness of the Chairman and each of the boardsshould conduct a formal and rigorous review of their performance annually, and an externally facilitated review Committeechairmen: and atleast every three years.
For FY18, the Board repeated Individual Director performance and aninternal evaluation process for itself and each of its .
Committees, which was introduced in FY17.
The evaluation utilised the same online evaluation tool, and to aid the The resulting report was received and discussed by the assessment of progress against the previous year, the Board in September 2018.
The overall conclusion from this questions were kept the same where possible.
Free text years evaluation was that the Board and its Committees comment boxes allowed respondents to expand on their continue to work well and are operating effectively.
All the Directors, the Company Thematic areas such as Executive leadership, focus and Secretary and a selection of regular meeting participants prioritisation have been acted upon and taken into the were invited to respond to the questionnaires.
You can find details of how the Boards activities contributed towards its objectives on The evaluation included the following topics: page87.
As with any Board whose ambition is to be worldclass, the Directors will continue to seek to improve and Board composition and the dynamics of evolve their standards of performance over the course Boarddiscussions: ofthe year.
During FY19, the Board plans to conduct an Strategy: line of sight and the quality of information flows: externally facilitated review and this will be discussed in ourFY19report.
Succession planning: Board and senior management: The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board roles Donald Brydon, Steve Hare, Chief Chairman Executive Officer Responsible for Responsible for leading the Board, implementing the monitoring its Boards agreed strategy effectiveness and running of the Group andgovernance As Chairman I am responsible for leading the Board in My responsibilities as Chief Executive Officer include: challenging and agreeing the strategy proposed by the Delivering the Boards strategy through the Chief Executive Officer.
My role as Chairman also carries ExecutiveCommittee aparticular responsibility to monitor and assess Sages corporate governance practices and the overall Managing the overall operating performance of Sage, effectiveness of the Board.
concentrating on revenue and profitability: and Maintaining a disciplined control environment and To ensure a proper dialogue with Directors, I hold meetings delivering the Groups financial disclosure obligations with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors to assess their views.
In addition, the NonI also identify acquisitions and monitor competitive forces, executive Directors meet without me being present to as well as ensuring an effective and motivated leadership appraise my performance.
These meetings without me team.
I chair the Executive Committee and maintain a present are chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
closeworking relationship with the Chairman.
I also ensure that shareholder engagement is discussed ateach meeting of the Board and that all shareholders have access to the Non-executive Directors, through a request tothe Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Drummond Hall, Vicki Bradin, SeniorIndependent CompanySecretary Director Ensures good information flows to the Board and its Acts as a sounding board committees and between for the Chairman and senior management and discusses any concerns Non-executive Directors with shareholders that cannot be resolved throughthe normal channelsof communication My role as Senior Independent Director is: In my role as Company Secretary, I am available to all Directors to provide advice and assistance, and I am To support the Chairman in the delivery of his objectives: responsible for providing governance advice to the Board.
Iensure Board procedures are complied with, that applicable To provide an additional point of contact for shareholders, rules and regulations are followed and act as secretary to including those who may wish to raise issues with the the Board and all of the committees.
I also ensure minutes Board, other than through the Chairman or the of all meetings are circulated to all Directors as well as executivedirectors: and facilitate the induction of new Directors and assist with Together with the other independent Non-executive professional development as required.
Directors, to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
1 The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are quite distinct from one another and are clearly defined in written terms of reference for each role.
These terms of reference are available on our website www.
com company about-sage leadership board-of-directors.
84 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE How the Board operates The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved to it fordecision.
This schedule was last updated following the appointment of Steve Hare as Chief Executive Officer in November 2018 and is available via our website.
In order for the Board and Committees to operate at their Relations with shareholders best, it is essential that they receive, in a timely fashion, Communication with shareholders papers which are clear, focused and relevant.
During FY18, is given high priority.
Information we have focused on maintaining a consistently high paper on Sages activities, published quality to enrich the Boards discussions and complement its financial results and the Annual engagement activities.
Papers are circulated electronically Report and Accounts can be found via a secure portal, giving Directors ample time to consider on our website.
Afull Annual and digest their contents.
Directors can also use the portal Report and Accounts is sent to to make annotations to papers, and store and share relevant allshareholders who wish to content for reference at Board meetings.
There is regular dialogue with individual Regular attendance at Board meetings, engagement sessions institutional shareholders and and less formal social activities with key executives ensures there are presentations to analysts that the Board has the opportunity to discuss the risks and after our announcement of the opportunities within our business with leaders from across year-end and half-year results.
It also helps foster a culture of ownership and accountability within the Executive leadership team and At each meeting, the ensures that the Board is able to build strong relationships Boardreceives an update over time with those individuals.
onpresentations to investors andcommunications from shareholders to ensure that the Directors have an understanding of their views.
The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate with both private and institutional During FY18, we have focused investors and the Board welcomestheir participation.
on maintaining a consistently You can read more about high paper quality to enrich stakeholder engagement including theBoards discussions shareholders on page 88.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Q 4 : 2 0 1 8 September 2018 March 2018 8 Q 1 3 0 : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Boards activities The Boards activities throughout the year are underpinned by our externalreporting calendar and our internal business planning processes.
A rolling annual agenda ensures that all important topics receive sufficient attention.
Standing items provide an anchor to the strategy and provide the Board with a consistent view of progress during the year, whilst sessions on priority topics allow deeper insight.
2018 Board Activities Full-year results announcement, Annual Report & Accounts 2017, Board objectives, Strategy Day planning, Review of Principal Risks Strategy pulse-check, Strategy Day, Sage Atlanta site visit including Foundation presentation, Customer and Partner AGM, Corporate meetings, FY19 Budget, Governance reform, Culture pulse-check, Newcastle site visit February 2018 August 2018 Modern Slavery including Customer and statement, Board Accountant roundtables, evaluation, product Culture pulse check, Sage portfolio discussions, Accountant Cloud review, leadership change Product deep dives Half-year results announcement, Competitor review, ChiefProduct Delivery Officer update 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
2 2 : 0 1 1 Q 8 January 2018 July 2018 June 2018 December 2017 Q 2 : November 2017 May 2018 2 0 1 8 April 2018 October 2017 GOVERNANCE How the Board spent the year The Board adopts a written set of objectives for each financial year, against which it informally assesses progress at each meeting.
Activities aligned to these objectives are summarised below.
A formal review takes place as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
SaaS Cyber Technology New Customer Culture Risk Innovation Acquisition Regular Board Received reports Interactive Received regular input from SaaS from Global CISO sessionon ISV progress reports thinkers within on bolstering of andAPI strategy from management the business Info Sec capability on go-to-market Participated activities and Talent cultivation Regular cyber inBotcamp initiatives through regular briefings meetings with colleagues Received Culture Revolutionise pulse checks One Sage Business Performance monitoring Capacity for Winning in the One Sage andstrategy Growth Market discussions Customer Sage Business Market Lens Cloud Leadership Customer Product deep Atlanta visit andPartner divesessions including Board roundtables throughout year meeting with North throughout year America focus Accountant Attended Sage channel strategic Annual Board Sessions review in the year strategy day Capital Markets Competitor review Day attendance Regular review of strategic M&A opportunities Revolutionise Business Winning in the Winning in the Winning in the One Sage Market Market Market Customer Customer Revolutionise Capacity for for Life for Life Business Growth The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Stakeholder engagement Who are our main stakeholders?
Business Builders Colleagues Partners those who Accountants the Investors our the small and ourpeople, who share our vision and professionals who providers of capital, medium-sized arededicated to bring our solutions to rely on us to help without whom we businesses who creating, selling and life, partnering with them deliver a great could not grow and arethe growth supporting solutions our customers locally service to their invest for future engineof that free our and creating an clients, whatever success theeconomy customers from ecosystem of their size admin so that their complementary businesses can thrive services Transparency sharing information about how we Why is run our business so that stakeholders can make informed decisions Strategy creating and maintaining a strategy aligned to our stakeholder stakeholders values engagement Long-term, sustainable value creation important?
Roundtables Site visits speaking Colleague lunches Tech lunches Investor meetings hearing from to colleagues, seeing informal yet getting the latest finding out whats customers, partners their working confidential onour products, most important to and accountants environment and opportunities to technology and our investors and advocates of Sage understanding meeteveryone from innovation both at updating them on aswell as those who Sagesculture apprentices through Sage and in the wider thedecisions weve do not actively use aroundthe world to senior leaders, and software industry taken and our orsell non-Sage hear what working for andbeyond direction of travel solutions to better Sage means to them understand our markets, how the strategy we set impacts our stakeholders and howwe can serve them better A focused FY19 programme of stakeholder engagement, Whats building on what weve learned during FY18 Growing the Board Associate role next?
Considering how changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code are implemented and how we can further improve our reporting 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Information included in the Directors report Certain information, fulfilling certain requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement, can be found in the Directors report and is incorporated into this Corporate Governance section by reference.
For reference, relevant sections of the Directors report are: Major shareholdings Deadlines for voting rights Repurchase of shares Amendment of the Companys articles of association Appointment and replacement of Directors Powers of the Directors By order of the Board Vicki Bradin Company Secretary 20 November 2018 The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 INTERVIEW WITH BOARD ASSOCIATE, AMY LAWSON DEMYSTIFYING THE BOARD Amy Lawson took on the role of Board Associate inJuly 2017.
Here she discusses what it means to her, and how shes How would you helping bring the voice explain the role of Sage colleagues into the Boardroom.
of the Board to your colleagues?
Amy, youve been The role of the Board is unique: to Board Associate for advise, to challenge, to support andonly exceptionally to execute.
The Board brings collective insight, nearly18months now.
but they are also rigorous about not stepping over the line into executive, What exactly does a directive behaviour.
Ive observed this dynamic first-hand on many BoardAssociate do?
occasions and its a nuance I hadnt really appreciated until I took on I attend all Board meetings as an thisrole.
I would also explain the observer.
I question, challenge and mechanics of the Board, how the contribute my views and the insights agenda is set and how topics make Ive received from other colleagues iton to the agenda, including which where appropriate but I am not items are discussed regularly at formally appointed a Director, so eachmeeting and why.
Idont carry a vote and I am not subject to the same degree of legalliability as the Directors.
I also attend as many of the Boards other engagement activities as I can.
Outside the boardroom, I have the task of listening to colleagues views and also sharing with them what the Board does andhow they can help shape the discussion.
Ive done this through a series of blogs shared on our intranet and via a live Q&A with colleagues.
Ialso ensure everyone knows howthey can contact me to ask questions or share their views.
90 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Has anything Youve mentioned that surprised you the Board members aboutbeing dont get involved in BoardAssociate?
day-to-day operational Im going to be honest with you.
If they did, thisprogramme, I had always suspected Board meetings would be rather slow and laboured.
how do you think they Ialso couldnt quite see how they could connect with the colleague experience on the ground would get involved?
and I thought deeply in advance about how Iwould use this role, which, after all, is intended They each bring something different to the to close the gap.
But, Ive been amazed by how table, and between them they have really strong fast-paced meetings are and how much ground backgrounds in areas like customer service and is covered.
Like most Boards, ours operates from marketing, technology and finance.
One thing a series of advance papers, shared in an app, they all have in common is that they all care which are taken as read, so there is an onus deeply about our culture, and whether its onevery single Board member to prepare supporting our performance or not.
They know thoroughly for the meeting.
Its a big investment that having the right culture is absolutely key to in terms of time, but it means that theres real customer and colleague success, and so we often focus in the discussion and no treading over old come back to that in our discussions.
I have learned to really listen and follow this come through in the engagement activities the flow so that I can pick the right time to ask a where weve met colleagues, customers and question or contribute and add maximum value.
partners and those conversations have added depth and context for the more formal Boardmeetings.
What insights do you Has being Board think you have brought Associate changed into the Boardroom that how you think about perhaps werent there your own role?
before we had colleague Absolutely!
Its shown me the value of having a discipline of stepping back from the day-to-day representation?
role, considering lots of different inputs and thinking longer-term.
When I apply that discipline I cant bring all 13,000 colleagues into the now to my own role as EVP of Communications Boardroom itself, and this role isnt primarily Ifind I have so many more interesting thoughts, about airing colleague issues or complaints as and Ive even solved problems Ive been pondering there are local mechanisms where that happens.
It forces your brain into a different Instead, I actively seek out the views gear and I think that reflects the value the Board of my colleagues and Im helped enormously in brings to an organisation.
I appreciate that not that via our network of local communications everyone can have the opportunity of seeing leaders.
They and others give me really honest theBoard in action like this, but I do think its a feedback about how colleagues are feeling and discipline anyone can apply in their own work, what matters to them in each of our country forexample by volunteering for projects that locations.
From the Boards perspective I think takethem out of their usual area of expertise Ioften provide a bit of a sense check for them.
andworking with colleagues from a different Something that seems like common sense when partof the business.
discussed at Board level might not translate onthe ground the way they are anticipating, so I offer challenge in those areas to make surethey get the whole picture.
