Governance Risk Committee Report Role of the Committee Our role is to monitor the Groups risk and compliance management procedures described on pages 69-73 and to review principal business risks and compliance matters regularly on behalf of the Board.
We seek to consider the risks on both an individual and an aggregated basis across our businesses.
All Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Attendance The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
Member Attendance Orna NiChionna Chair 4 1 Philip Green 1 Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present a report of the work done by Ray King 4 the Risk Committee during the year, to ensure that risk Bridget McIntyre 4 processes were aligned with strategy, risk tolerance Gareth Williams 4 levels were monitored and the impact of risk on each of our businesses and on an aggregate basis was Note: considered.
As the Group invested for growth and, 1 Philip Green resigned on 31 March 2017 sought to become increasingly customer-centric and to continue to develop its people, whilst maintaining The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the an efficient operating model, the Committee played Committee and attends all meetings.
The following an important role in considering and monitoring the personnel attend by invitation: Chairman: Group Chief associated risks.
Executive Officer: Group Chief Financial Officer: Chief Risk and Compliance Officer: and Group Head of Looking forward, we will continue to focus on developing Internal Audit.
We also invite other executives and our approach to assessing the effectiveness of risk consultants.
During the year the Committee and its management and will look at the impact our risk Chair held private meetings with the Chief Risk Officer.
management approach has on the way the business is run.
Our terms of reference Our terms of reference were reviewed by the Committee and subsequently approved by the Board on 18 September 2017.
These explain our role and the authority delegated to us by the Board and are available on the Orna NiChionna Saga website at http: corporate.
co. uk corporateChair, Risk Committee information corporate-governance and from the Company Secretary at Sagas registered office.
Our remit To advise the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy.
To consider the nature and extent of the principal risks the Group is willing to take in achieving strategic objectives and to communicate this to the Board.
To review the Groups overall risk assessment processes that inform the Boards decision making, ensuring that both qualitative and quantitative metrics are used, and to review these measures regularly.
To consider the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and operations.
To ensure that a supportive risk management culture is embedded and maintained throughout the Group, in conjunction with the Audit and Remuneration Committees including how risk should be Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 78 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements recognised when setting performance objectives Committee concluded that a robust risk management for executive remuneration.
framework was in place throughout the year, that a To review the Groups capability to identify and good risk and control culture was evident across the manage new risk types.
Group and that there was a continuous improvement To review reports on any material breaches of risk approach.
The Committee recommended to the Board limits and the adequacy of proposed action.
that the appropriate part of the statement could be To monitor and review managements responsiveness made see page 54. to the findings and recommendations of the Chief Last year, we considered the insurance programme for Risk and Compliance Officer.
the Group including cost, management of brokers and To review the performance of Group compliance advisers and summary of cover.
We discussed whether and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the any additional cover was required, specifically in various compliance functions.
To consider any relation to the threat of financial crime or cybercrime.
breaches and or required notifications to compliance We noted that the cover for this year was the same authorities and how these have been rectified.
as the previous year, but at a lower premium, due to To explore risks identified within each of our major a positive claims history.
business areas and the mitigation processes that are in place.
Risk strategy, policy and appetite We have approved the development of the risk What we have done during the year reporting framework to provide for a holistic approach Time spent on matters that is clearly linked to the Companys strategy and is also reconciled with the viability statement.
Management and reporting Throughout the year we reviewed our principal risks c. 20% Risk policy, appetite and uncertainties against the changing context of the and strategy markets in which we operate see pages 24-29 for the Compliance and market overview and against a Group risk horizon regulation landscape that focuses on environmental, social, c. 50% Business reviews c. 15% political, economic, technological and regulatory legal issues.
Consideration of conduct risk forms an essential part of our discussions.
We reviewed how our business decisions and behaviour could impact our customers, c. 15% affect our reputation or undermine the integrity of the financial markets.
Management and reporting Changes and additions to the principal risks and At each meeting, we considered detailed reports and uncertainties list were scrutinised and the results discussed the issues raised.
These reports included a of this process are shown in the Strategic Report on summary of each businesss management monitoring pages 26-29 and our risk management processes on and a review of incidents, particularly relating to pages 69-73.
These are designed to manage rather significant control failures or weaknesses.
We reviewed than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business and discussed these incidents in order to identify objectives and can only provide reasonable and not causes, necessary actions, lessons learned and absolute assurance against material misstatement monitoring requirements.
We also worked with the Chief Risk and Compliance Risk appetites and tolerances are reviewed on a Officer to consider each business areas strategies continuous basis.
As we have discussed before, this in the context of its risk framework to ensure that involves considering risks that are outside of agreed all forward-looking risks had been identified and risk appetite.
We concluded that where this was the considered.
All business CEOs certified compliance case, the probability of occurrence was very low and with the risk management framework at the year end.
that existing mitigating actions were appropriate to the scenarios.
We remain satisfied that controls are We reviewed the robust assessment of the principal risks in place which mean that the risk of significant failing facing the Group, including those that would threaten across the business model is remote.
the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity and recommended to the Board that the The mitigation of the risk resulting from the pension appropriate statement could be made see page 54. shortfall was considered in detail and we were comfortable that sufficient work is being done to In coordination with the Audit Committee, a review of manage current and future liabilities.
The Group risk the effectiveness of the risk management framework policy was reviewed during the year and no changes took place during the year, as part of the wider review were proposed.
of risk management and internal control.
This was considered by the Committee.
The review and the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 79 Governance Risk Committee Report continued We discussed the internal project risk assessment, regulators, management of incidents and the impact of noted that a review of resources allocated to key the Financial Conduct Authoritys annual business plan change management projects was in progress and were considered and discussed.
Material changes to challenged management on the potentially reactive compliance regulations were noted.
nature of the approaches being taken.
We were assured Areas of particular importance included the Companys that the projects were planned in advance and that the approach to the Modern Slavery Act, an unannounced majority of risks were, therefore, subject to appropriate Care Quality Commission CQC visit to Saga mitigation and management.
The Committee noted Healthcare, and a review of compliance at Bennetts.
that where acceptable risk was taken in order to adapt projects as they progressed, it was carefully monitored.
We were pleased to note that a robust framework had We concluded that there are no systemic issues with been put in place to evidence steps taken to confirm any change management projects and that the that neither slavery nor human trafficking are present Committee has a good oversight in terms of roles within the Company and its supply chains, and that a and planning.
process was in place to make appropriate statements on relevant websites.
IT risk and protection of data are important areas of focus for us to consider as a Committee, both in terms The CQC visit involved conversations with customers of cyber-risk and regulatory compliance.
We discussed and carers and a review of paperwork.
The initial how IT operations had been restructured to form feedback on site was positive and the formal report dedicated teams for operational infrastructure resulted in a Good rating.
management, internal service delivery and change.
These were noted as being structured around business As a result of the compliance review at Bennetts, which processes and project delivery.
also involved benchmarking against Saga Services best practices, controls and procedures, it has The IT team has strategies in place to deal with benefited from various enhancements.
malware and ransomware threats and these are kept under constant review and development as the threat Business reviews evolves.
Our disaster recovery plan is regularly reviewed Each of our meetings included a presentation from one at divisional executive and risk committees.
or two of the divisional CEOs and senior members of the team to discuss in detail the risk and compliance We continued to monitor how the General Data issues in their business, prioritised according to risk Protection Regulation will affect how we do business, ratings in the Groups risk register.
as we identified last year.
Updates on work undertaken by the Data Protection Strategy Group were provided Reviews of individual businesses during the year and the Committee was assured that all necessary included the following: steps will be taken before the regulation comes into force in May 2018.
The ability to cross-sell impacts Saga Services Limited regulated business other projects, so we were keen to understand and gain Considered key risks and opportunities for this insight into what is being done to proactively manage business.
the risks presented by these regulations by obtaining Discussed how business decisions included positive affirmation and consent from customers.
consideration of customer outcomes, to ensure these were fair and protected our market integrity.
Following on from last years discussions, supplier risk Looked carefully at this businesss performance in management is an ongoing process, with contracts the challenging trading situation that arose in the above a certain threshold being reviewed, resulting in final quarter of the year and discussed how key risk enhancement to due diligence processes and a focus indicators should be a mix of predictive and lagging on larger suppliers and those that carry reputational measures and aligned with strategy and stress risk.
It was clear to us that there are a few suppliers tested.
that have received significant investment upfront or Received updates on the insurance platform where a significant amount of profit could be lost in replacement project and assurance by PwC that the event of failure.
Reputational risk was mitigated the planning, timeline, architecture and technical through issuing appropriate contracts, with ongoing integration plans were fit for purpose.
monitoring and oversight: and by applying lessons Noted PwCs opinion that the right culture and team learned from past experiences.
Reviewed a blueprint to show how the programme Compliance would change the business and provide a baseline At every meeting, we received a Group regulation for design and scope decisions made during report, which included the status of the Group the project.
compliance monitoring plan for the regulated businesses financial services, travel and healthcare.
The relationships of individual businesses with Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 80 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Travel Saga Money Discussed the structure of the division, its Considered the business model, product portfolio, governance, and issues of transformation governance framework, performance and key priorities.
Reviewed product offerings to ensure any risks Considered the top risks and noted that Brexit associated were in line with risk appetite and was having a short-term impact on currency rates.
tolerance and considered how risk interacted with Reviewed customer health, safety and emergency the strategic direction of the business.
procedures and lessons learned from travel-related Were advised that focus on the post-retirement terrorist incidents.
sector provided an opportunity to grow relationships for those with fixed income.
Discussed the implications of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 as some obligations are vague and the AICL and CHMC Limited division has a long supply chain.
Discussed the strategic direction of the businesses We noted that 93% of suppliers had been assessed and terms of the quota share arrangement.
in relation to their approach to modern slavery and Reviewed the approach to management of categorised with respect to risk, and that policies, investment assets.
procedures and plans were in place to address Considered the risks associated with these entities, regulatory requirements.
including uncertainties about the Ogden rate change We concluded that a new IT system would help and Brexit: the approach to claims of damage as a to mitigate the risks presented by competitors result of a terrorist act: and the possible impact in pricing agility.
the future of an increase in the use of autonomous We concluded that the Travel business remains good vehicles.
at looking after its customers with appropriate levels Heard how the governance framework would help of ongoing support as required and robust health support management in identifying key risk and safety policies, and noted that the number management priorities and agreeing a prioritised of low-rated incidents was due to the stringent plan of action.
Effectiveness of the Risk Committee Cruise Evaluation Reviewed the Beyond Compliance programme An external evaluation of the Committees and noted its progress and that it was now the effectiveness took place during the year, as part of the operational standard.
Board effectiveness review for details see page 65.
Discussed crew resource for Spirit of Discovery, This was completed by Independent Audit Limited.
The covering transfer, retention and recruitment to review indicated that the Committee is satisfied that it mitigate the risk of not having the right crew in place.
is working well, and that there is good discussion of risk Considered Sagas relationship with V. Ships and exposures, in particular through the business reviews.
Saffron Maritime, and noted that the relationships Looking ahead, the Committee will focus on systemic were close: with Saga actively involved in their issues and trends in key risks and areas of uncertainty.
processes and their alignment with our Beyond Compliance programme.
We noted that staff turnover rates were low.
Concluded that the transition to the new ship was progressing satisfactorily and to plan, with Orna NiChionna appropriate product development and adoption Chair, Risk Committee of suitable new procedures.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 81
