Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Leadership Culture Sagas regulatory, financial and material The Saga People Action Plan addresses themes operational policies.
identified by our employee pulse surveys, which are Changes relating to Sagas capital, corporate, conducted throughout the year.
The leadership management or control structures.
development programme was rolled out to the senior Material capital or operating expenditure outside leaders in the business during the year, to ensure that pre-determined tolerances or beyond the this group were aligned on delivering growth.
investment in developing our people was made with the Major capital projects including post-investment launch of the Leadership degree, for which 50 individuals reviews where not considered in detail by the Audit have enrolled to date.
or Risk Committee or where the Board decides a full review is required, corporate action or investment by All Directors, members of the Group Executive Saga that will have, or is likely to have, a financial Committee and persons discharging managerial cost greater than the amount set out in the relevant responsibilities PDMRs receive training on an ongoing contract approval processes from time to time.
During the year, the Directors received regular Any contract which is material strategically or updates on topics including the Market Abuse by reason of size, not in the ordinary course of Regulation, General Data Protection Regulation GDPR business, or outside agreed budgetary limits and other relevant regulatory changes.
Training has or that relates to joint ventures and material been built into the Board and Committee annual plan arrangements with customers or suppliers.
for 2018 and is scheduled to include PDMR refresher training, the threat of cybercrime and GDPR.
A review of our strategic objectives and financial performance takes place at each Board meeting.
Directors make ongoing visits to business areas to The Board is responsible for, and provides, the overall ensure that they remain close to what Saga does and direction for management, debating our strategic to see first-hand how strategy works in practice and priorities and setting Sagas values and standards.
how boardroom discussions translate to the front line of the business.
A fundamental part of this role is to consider the balance of interests between our stakeholders Our Board including shareholders, our customers, our employees There is an articulated set of matters which are and the communities in which we work.
reserved for the Board and these are reviewed annually.
The last review took place on 20 September 2017.
The Board also provides oversight and supervision of Matters reserved for the Board include: Sagas operations ensuring: Any decision likely to have a material impact on successful implementation of agreed strategy: Saga from any perspective including, but not limited sound planning and competent management: to, financial, operational, strategic or reputational.
a solid system of internal control and risk The strategic direction of the overall business, management: objectives, budgets and forecasts, levels of adequate accounting and other records: and compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations.
authority to approve expenditure, and any material changes to them.
Details of the Boards activities during the year can be The commencement, material expansion, found on page 59. diversification or cessation of any of Sagas activities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 57 Governance Leadership continued Board attendance during the year The Board and Committees have a scheduled forward programme of meetings.
During the year, the Board met formally on six occasions.
In addition, meetings were convened as necessary to approve strategic matters including a review of the Groups financing arrangements and financing for Spirit of Adventure and a strategy event was held in November at which annual and five-year plans for each of the businesses were presented to the Board and discussed.
The Chairman meets regularly with the Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors outside of formal meetings.
Attendance at Board Member Role meetings Andrew Goodsell Chairman leadership, Board governance, setting 6 6 the agenda and facilitating open Board discussions, performance and shareholder engagement Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer developing strategy 6 6 for Board approval and Group performance Jonathan Hill Group Chief Financial Officer Group financial performance, 6 6 including creation of the budget and five-year plans for recommendation to the Board Independent Non-Executive Directors: 1 Philip Green Participate in, assess, challenge and monitor Executive 0 6 Directors delivery of the strategy within risk and Ray King 5 6 governance structures, financial controls and integrity Bridget McIntyre 6 6 of financial statements, and Board diversity.
Evaluate Orna NiChionna and appraise the performance of Executive Directors 6 6 and senior management.
Gareth Williams 6 6 Note: 1 Philip Green resigned on 31 March 2017 and sent apologies for the Board meeting held in the period before his resignation date The Company Secretary attends all meetings as secretary to the Board.
Other executives, members of senior management and external advisers are also invited to attend Board meetings, to present items of business and provide insight into key strategic issues.
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman of the Board and Committee Chairs in planning for each meeting and ensures that Board and Committee members receive information and papers in a timely manner.
Governance in action Becoming an increasingly customer-centric Possibilities HACs Brand Detail considered by Risk organisation and Audit Committees Adobe Marketing Cloud Growing our Retail Reviewed by new insurance platform Insurance business Executive Committee Built in to senior executives Approval to build a second ship and Growing our objectives Remuneration monitoring progress of Spirit of Discovery Travel business Committee investment in new travel IT system Strategic discussion Investing for decision at Board Saga Money growth Saga Healthcare Communicated to shareholders and Leadership development the market Developing our people programme Leadership degree Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 58 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board activities during the year Strategy Reviewed strategic initiatives.
Approved plans to a build a second Our Board is structured Considered how to attract and retain ship, Spirit of Adventure, for delivery to support becoming an High Affinity Customers.
in August 2020 and monitored increasingly customerDiscussed Possibilities, our membership progress of the build of our new ship, centric business proposition and our new Brand.
Discussed how to grow the Retail Insurance and Travel businesses.
Approved the new quota share arrangement.
Investing in our Discussed the new insurance platform, Reviewed the marketing permissions capabilities how this would increase product centre and considered how this would Recognising the need to differentiation, improve call centre and comply with the General Data continually improve our back office efficiencies and enable Protection Regulation.
customers experience cross-sell and retention of our HACs.
and the efficiency of Discussed the investment in Adobe our operations Marketing Cloud.
Shareholder Regularly discussed shareholder Met shareholders at our AGM.
engagement feedback with our brokers at Effective Board meetings.
communication with Executive Directors, Chairman and our shareholders Senior Independent Director held meetings with key shareholders.
Developing our people Agreed to extend the leadership Agreed the award of free shares to Ensuring our development programme to the senior eligible employees under the Share people are aligned in leaders in the Group.
Incentive Plan for the third year running.
how growth is delivered Held a bi-annual review of talent Discussed how reward should link development and succession planning.
Acted on the results of the Invited senior executives to Board employee pulse surveys: introduced meetings to gain a deeper more regular communications and understanding of each business and listening workshops.
Governance and risk Reviewed our risk appetite and Approved the Audit Committees Governance to support tolerance levels and thresholds against recommendation to appoint external our strategy the strategy.
auditors and sign off financial Received frequent business and crime policies.
Approved tax, environmental, health Considered and approved the Groups and safety and communication modern slavery policy and statement.
policies, matters reserved for the Board and Committees terms of reference.
Participated in an externally facilitated Board and Committee evaluation exercise, which included a review of the previous years action plans.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 59 Governance Leadership continued The Boards responsibilities Strategic direction of the Group.
Considering the needs of our stakeholders, Setting values and standards in including shareholders, employees and accordance with the keep doing ethos customers.
Ensuring compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations.
The Nomination Committees The Audit Committees responsibilities responsibilities Providing recommendations Monitoring the integrity of on the size, structure and financial statements and composition of the Board.
Reviewing internal and external Evaluating the skills, knowledge, audit work plans.
independence and diversity Determining the remuneration, of the Board.
terms of engagement and Identifying and nominating independence of the candidates to fill Board external auditor.
Monitoring, reviewing and Reviewing Board performance challenging the effectiveness evaluation results in relation of the Internal Audit and to Board composition.
Assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and external audits.
Reviewing Sagas annual and half year financial statements and accounting policies.
Considering and approving the terms of engagement of external auditors.
Monitoring the scope of the annual audit and the extent of non-audit work undertaken by external auditors.
Ensuring that whistleblowing and anti-fraud systems are in place within Saga.
Read the Nomination Committee Read the Audit Committee Report on p66 Report on p74 The Executive Committee reports directly Implementing strategy as determined Managing risk and conduct, reviewing to the Board via the Group Chief by the Board.
Group risk and internal audit and Executive Officer and Group Chief Executive management monitoring compliance plans.
Financial Officer and is responsible for: trading against strategy.
Reporting any potential or actual breaches Cultural leadership and people of regulation or policy to the Board.
development, day to day operational management.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 60 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Boards responsibilities Strategic direction of the Group.
Board responsibilities allocation of time The Risk Committees The Remuneration Committees responsibilities responsibilities Advising the Board on the Setting and monitoring the c. 10% Groups overall risk appetite, Remuneration Policy for tolerance and strategy.
senior executives, considering c. 10% Overseeing and advising the relevant legal and regulatory Board on current risk exposures requirements.
c. 10% c. 50% and future risk strategy.
Recommending and monitoring Reviewing risk assessment and remuneration packages for management procedures.
Executive Directors, the Monitoring principal business risks.
Chairman and senior c. 20% Reviewing the adequacy and management.
effectiveness of risk management Determining all aspects of and identification systems and of share-based incentive Strategy and business the compliance function.
performance Reviewing and monitoring Reviewing and administering Financial reporting and controls including dividend policy managements response to the employee share schemes.
Oversight of risk Chief Risk and Compliance Setting key performance and management Officers findings and indicators for the Annual Bonus People, culture and recommendations.
Board effectiveness Providing qualitative and Preparing an Annual Corporate governance quantitative advice to the Remuneration Report.
Remuneration Committee on risk weightings.
Reviewing on an annual basis reports received from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company and its subsidiaries anti-money laundering systems and controls.
Read the Risk Committee Read the Remuneration Committee Report on p78 Report on p83 The Executive Committee reports directly Implementing strategy as determined Managing risk and conduct, reviewing to the Board via the Group Chief by the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 61
