Governance Board of Directors N E E Andrew Goodsell Lance Batchelor Jonathan Hill Patrick OSullivan Orna NiChionna Ray King Bridget McIntyre Gareth Williams Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Incoming Chairman Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Proposed appointment: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Non-Executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Chairman with effect from Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director in July 2015 in March 2014 in April 2015 1 May 2018 Non-Executive Director in March 2014 in January 2016 in May 2014 Chief Executive and Skills, competencies Skills, competencies Skills, competencies in March 2017 Skills, competencies Skills, competencies Skills, competencies Chairman in 2004 and experience: and experience: and experience: Independent Non-Executive and experience: and experience: and experience: Skills, competencies Lance has worked in Jonathan is a chartered Patrick has a wealth of Director in May 2014 Ray has a strong background Bridget brings to the Board a Gareths expertise is in all and experience: consumer-facing businesses accountant with over 26 years experience in the financial Skills, competencies in business and financial wealth of insurance aspects of human resource Andrew has brought a wealth and brand-centric roles experience across multiple and insurance industry gained and experience: management.
He has led a experience coupled with and people strategy which of executive management, throughout his career, market industry sectors, from a number of senior roles Orna, who has significant business similar to Saga, as considerable general and he gained from his previous product and industry focusing on creating products including senior roles within he held at the Bank of experience in strategy and Group Chief Executive of financial experience gained positions including Human expertise, stemming from that are tailored to the TUI Travel and Centrica.
America, Goldman Sachs, new concept development Bupa from 2008 - 2012 and from her previous roles as Resources Director of Diageo a career of over 26 years at customer.
He holds an MBA Jonathan, who joined Saga Financial Guaranty Insurance and launch, business as Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive of the RSA plc where he also had Saga.
He joined Saga in 1992 from Harvard Business School from Bovis Homes Group plc Company and Barclays BZW.
His earlier UK business, Director of RSA oversight responsibility for and progressed through a and began his career as a where he was Group Finance Patrick spent 12 years at redesign and supply change executive roles included Insurance Group plc, and a corporate relations and a number of senior roles before Royal Navy submarine officer.
Director, has a significant Zurich Insurance Group, where management, joined the Director of Group Finance and variety of senior roles at Aviva series of key positions in becoming Deputy Group Chief He went on to hold senior amount of experience in he held positions including Company in May 2014, on Control of Diageo plc, Group and pre-merger Norwich human resources at Grand Executive in 2001 and Chief marketing positions at Procter strategic planning and CEO of Eagle Star Insurance listing.
She was subsequently Finance Director of Southern Union.
Bridget, who is an Metropolitan plc.
Gareths Executive and Chairman & Gamble, Amazon.
com and development, and delivery Company, CEO of UK General appointed as Senior Water plc and senior roles at associate with the Chartered contributions to the Board in 2004.
He has led two Vodafone, before becoming of large corporate projects.
Insurance, Group Chief Independent Non-Executive ICI plc.
Ray has previously Institute of Management and its Committees bring a management buyouts at CEO of Tesco Mobile between He brings this and a wealth Financial Officer and Vice Director for Saga in March been a Non-Executive director Accountants, has a strong unique perspective to Saga.
The second, in 2007, 20082011 and CEO of of senior financial, Chairman of the Management 2017.
Previously, Orna was at The Financial Reporting understanding of how retail discussions, drawn from his brought together Saga and Dominos Pizza Group plc operational and listed Board.
Previous non-executive Senior Independent NonCouncil, Infinis Energy plc and businesses work and a track experience of working at the AA under the holding between 2011-2014.
Lance company experience to his roles have included Chairman Executive Director of HMV plc, Friends Provident plc and a record in improving business Director level in a consumercompany Acromas Holdings.
brings a wealth of senior role and the Board at Saga.
of the UKs Shareholder Northern Foods plc and Bupa Reporting Panel Member of performance.
Her facing organisation and his Andrew was Executive operational experience in Jonathan resigned from his Executive, Deputy Governor and a Non-Executive Director the Competition and Markets contributions to Saga and the knowledge of corporate Chairman of the AA from listed companies to his role position in March 2018 and of the Bank of Ireland, Senior of the Bank of Ireland UK Authority.
Rays significant Board, drawn from her relations, management 2007 until Acromas Holdings at Saga.
Since he joined as will work six months notice.
Independent Director at Man Holdings plc and Bristol & financial experience and his previous experiences, are development and resourcing.
sold it in 2014: and Executive Chief Executive Officer in A search for his successor Group plc and Chairman West plc.
She is a former Non-Executive Director valued immensely.
Other roles: Chairman of Saga from 2007 2014, the business has grown has commenced.
of the Audit Committee Partner at McKinsey & experience including that of Other roles: Gareth is currently a until he became Nonits underlying core profits, at Collins Stewart plc and Company, where her client chairing audit committees, Bridget is currently a NonNon-Executive Director Executive Chairman on invested in the growth of Cofra Group AG.
Patrick is an portfolio included many are all immensely helpful and Executive Director of Adnams of WNS Holdings Limited.
Andrew has an passengers and policies, experienced chairman having consumer-facing clients.
plc and Jarrold & Sons established track record of commissioned the build of two been Chairman of the UKs brings a wealth of varied and Other roles: Limited, and is founder driving growth.
His in-depth new ships, introduced a motor Shareholder Executive and valued skills to the Board Ray is currently a Nonof her own social enterprise knowledge of Saga and his broking panel, launched its is current Chairman of the along with her considerable Executive Director of organisation dream on, a well-established relationship membership programme, FTSE 100 diversified financial experience in other NonRothesay Holdco UK Ltd and Suffolk-based community with Sagas regulators has Possibilities, and replaced services conglomerate, Executive Director roles.
of its regulated subsidiary, interest company focused on been invaluable to the Group.
most of its key IT systems.
Other roles: Rothesay Life plc.
improving the lives of women.
Andrew will retire from the Other roles: Other roles: Orna is currently Senior Board on 30 April 2018.
Lance is a Trustee of the Patrick will continue in his role Independent Non-Executive National Gallery and White as Chairman of Old Mutual plc Director and Chair of the Ensign Association.
He is also until the separation process Remuneration Committee a Vice Patron of the Royal has concluded.
He is also of Royal Mail plc, NonNavy & Royal Marines Charity.
Chairman of ERS syndicate Executive Director and Chair 218, a Lloyds market of the Remuneration specialist motor insurer.
Committee at Burberry plc, the Deputy Chair of the More information on the National Trust, Trustee of Sir Chairman search, suitability John Soanes Museum and and appointment process can Chair of Client Service at be found in the Nomination Eden McCallum.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 62 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key to Committees A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee E Executive Committee RI Risk Committee N A Nomination Committee Committee Chair A N R RI A N R RI A N R RI A N R RI Andrew Goodsell Lance Batchelor Jonathan Hill Patrick OSullivan Orna NiChionna Ray King Bridget McIntyre Gareth Williams Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Incoming Chairman Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Proposed appointment: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Non-Executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Chairman with effect from Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director in July 2015 in March 2014 in April 2015 1 May 2018 Non-Executive Director in March 2014 in January 2016 in May 2014 Chief Executive and Skills, competencies Skills, competencies Skills, competencies in March 2017 Skills, competencies Skills, competencies Skills, competencies Chairman in 2004 and experience: and experience: and experience: Independent Non-Executive and experience: and experience: and experience: Skills, competencies Lance has worked in Jonathan is a chartered Patrick has a wealth of Director in May 2014 Ray has a strong background Bridget brings to the Board a Gareths expertise is in all and experience: consumer-facing businesses accountant with over 26 years experience in the financial Skills, competencies in business and financial wealth of insurance aspects of human resource Andrew has brought a wealth and brand-centric roles experience across multiple and insurance industry gained and experience: management.
Lance is a Trustee of the Patrick will continue in his role Independent Non-Executive Composition of the Board National Gallery and White as Chairman of Old Mutual plc Director and Chair of the Ensign Association.
He is also of Royal Mail plc, NonChairman 1 Navy & Royal Marines Charity.
Chairman of ERS syndicate Executive Director and Chair Executive Directors 218, a Lloyds market of the Remuneration Non-Executive Directors specialist motor insurer.
Committee at Burberry plc, the Deputy Chair of the More information on the National Trust, Trustee of Sir Chairman search, suitability John Soanes Museum and 2 and appointment process can Chair of Client Service at be found in the Nomination Eden McCallum.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 63
