CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Dear shareholder, Report of the I am pleased to present the annual report of the Audit andRisk Committee the Committee for 2018.
This reportexplains the Committees responsibilities and shows how it has delivered on these, whilst also considering and Audit and Risk responding to how the business has evolved during the year.
In particular the Committee has challenged and considered the suitability, assessment of and response to the principal Committee risks in light of changes to the performance of the business.
Key activities during the year have included assessing theongoing effectiveness of internal controls, including thedecision to bring forward an external assessment of internal audit, monitoring the businesss response to the requirements of GDPR and reviewing compliance with antibribery and corruption and sanctions legislation.
Inaddition, the Committee has monitored progress on Jonathan Howell theimplementation of IFRS 15 and other new accounting Chairman of standards as well as the appropriateness of the Groups theAudit and going concern, viability assessment, financial reporting RiskCommittee andaccounting judgements.
The Committee operates in accordance with the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code and the associated Audit and Risk Committee Membership recommendations set out in the FRCs Guidance on AuditCommittees, as revised in 2016.
The Committee isconsidering the extent to which it already applies the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code July Jonathan Howell Chairman 2018 as they affect audit committees, terms of reference Attended 5 of 5 meetings and operating procedures.
The Committee will report on thisin the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
Neil Berkett Attended 5 of 5 meetings We are firmly focused on ensuring that Sages risk Drummond Hall Attended 4 of 5 meetings management procedures and internal controls remain robust and able to respond effectively to the demands of the Groups developing business model andchanges in financial reporting requirements.
92 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE papers and provided comments to the Chairman in advance Role of the Committee of the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board was present at The Committee is an essential part of Sages overall three of the four scheduled meetings.
Steve Hare in his governance framework.
The Board has delegated to the capacity as Chief Financial Officer and, more recently, Chief Committee the responsibility for overseeing the Groups Executive Officer as well, the Vice President VP Risk and financial reporting, risk management and internal control Assurance, the Executive Vice President EVP Finance procedures, and the work of Sage Assurance and the Control and Operations and the General Counsel were external auditor.
These responsibilities are defined in the present at all five meetings.
The Chairman of the Committee Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed reported to the Board on key matters arising after each of andapproved by the Committee in February 2018, with these meetings.
At each meeting, the Committee met with nochanges made from the previous version approved the external auditor, and at certain meetings the VP Risk inOctober 2017. and Assurance, without management being present.
Composition At each meeting, the Committee receives and considers: The Code requires that at least one member of the scheduled finance updates on financial reporting, Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
including significant reporting and accounting matters: The Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs require that at least one member has competence in scheduled risk updates, including quarterly risk accounting and or auditing.
The Board is satisfied that dashboards outlining both principal and any escalated theChairman meets these requirements, being a qualified local risks.
The Committee also receives summary chartered accountant and who, until very recently, was reportsand supplementary briefings from Sage Risk theGroup Finance Director at Close Brothers Group plc.
andmanagement on selected principal risks and other Inaddition, the Board considers that the Committee has in-focus reviews: thenecessary competence and broad experience relevant summary reports of escalated incidents and instances of to the sector in which Sage operates as required by the whistleblowing, together with status of investigations and, Code.
Neil Berkett and Drummond Hall are both former where appropriate, management actions to remediate Chief Executive Officers with extensive experience of issues identified: leading businesses that, like Sage, are strongly focused progress against the plan and results of internal audit ontheir customers.
This means that they have a good activities, including Sage Assurance and management understanding of the challenges presented by the Groups reports on internal control, including financial, compliance customer-focused strategy which enables them to make and operational matters, and the implementation of robust contributions to the Committees activities.
Further management actions to remediate issues identified details of the background, knowledge and experience of the andmake improvements to internal controls: and Chairman and each of theCommittee members can be found on pages 76 to 77 ofthis report.
updates on delivery of the external audit plan and reportsfrom the external auditor on the Groups financial Activities during the year reporting and observations made on the internal financial control environment in the course of their work.
The Committee had four scheduled meetings over thecourse of the year in line with its terms of reference.
During the year the Committee also received updates on Afifth Committee meeting was convened in February 2018 thelegal and regulatory frameworks relevant to its areas to provide the Committee with additional time to explore ofresponsibility, including the GDPR, the UK Bribery Act the technical aspects of IFRS 15, consider the impact for 2010 and sanctions legislation.
Specific items addressed by theBusiness and the Groups implementation project.
the Committee at each of its regular scheduled meetings Attendance at the Audit and Risk Committee during the since the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts was published year to 30 September 2018 is shown in the table on the were as follows.
Drummond Hall was unable to attend one meeting, however, he reviewed the relevant information and The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Meeting Key items considered Financial management and reporting External Audit February 2018 Finance update EY update Risk management and internal controls Incident management and whistleblowing Risk and Compliance report Whistleblowing, Fraud and Incident update Sage Assurance update Other matters GDPR review In-Focus review Committee Terms of Reference Overview of Sanctions In-Focus review Auditor Independence Policy Internal Audit Companies Act 2006: Director Duties Approval of Internal Audit Charter Regulatory changes update Financial reporting Incident management and whistleblowing April 2018 Half year financial reporting matters Whistleblowing Policy Interim financial statements and Whistleblowing, Fraud and Incident update resultsannouncement External Audit Tax strategy update EY FY18 Audit Plan IFRS 15 update Interim Results Review Report Risk management and internal controls Other matters Risk and Compliance Report Companies Act 2006: Director Duties Sage Assurance update Regulatory changes update GDPR update In-Focus review Sanctions update In-Focus review Risk Management Policy Financial reporting Internal Audit September 2018 Finance update Effectiveness Review of Sage Assurance Draft version of the 2018 Annual Report External Audit andAccounts EY Audit update and discussion Draft review of positioning and FBU statement IFRS 15 implementation project update Incident management and whistleblowing Risk management and internal controls Whistleblowing, Fraud and Incident update Risk and Compliance report Other matters GDPR update Companies Act 2006: Director Duties Sage Assurance update Regulatory changes update Draft Viability statement Bribery Act update In-Focus review Financial reporting Internal Audit November 2018 Year-end financial reporting matters Control environment effectiveness review Final review of positioning and FBU statement of Sage Assurance Revenue Recognition and Adoption of IFRS 15 Incident management and whistleblowing Going concern and long-term viability assessment Whistleblowing, Fraud and Incident update 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Preliminary results announcement External Audit Update on financial controls EY Year-end Audit Results Report Risk management and internal controls Auditor Effectiveness review GDPR update Other matters Risk and Compliance report Companies Act 2006: Director Duties Sage Assurance update Regulatory changes update Principal Risks Review and Update Compliance Culture In-focus review The activities of the Committee are explained further in the rest of this report.
Outside these formal meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the Chief Financial Officer now CEO, the external auditor, the VP Risk and Assurance, the EVP Finance Control and Operations and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
94 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE In performing its review of the Groups financial reporting, Financial Reporting, including significant the Committee considered the work, judgements and reporting and accounting matters conclusions of management and the Group finance team.
The agenda for every Committee meeting includes a The Committee also received reports from the external formalfinance update from the EVP Finance Control auditor setting out its view on the accounting treatments andOperations.
This informs the Committee about included in the financial statements, based on its review of developments in the Groups reporting and accounting the interim financial statements and its audit of the annual environment.
During the year, the Committee considered financial statements.
The Committees review included how these developments were addressed in preparing the assessing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting Groups financial statements.
Those significant matters on policies and practices, confirming their compliance which the Committee was particularly focussed are set withfinancial reporting standards and relevant statutory outbelow.
The Committee assessed the overall quality requirements, and reviewing the adequacy of disclosures offinancial reporting through review and discussion of inthe financial statements.
thesignificant accounting matters and the full interim and annual financial statements.
The Committee also received In the current year, the Committee also challenged an update on the strategies and policies of theGroups Tax managements assessment of the impact on the Groups function and its approach to risks andcontrols.
operating and reportable segments of the change in the management structure of the Southern Europe region with effect from 1 October 2017 and disclosed at the half year.
Significant reporting and accounting matters The Committee considered how the following significant accounting and financial reporting matters were addressed in preparing the Groups financial statements.
Revenue Recognition The Group has a detailed policy on revenue recognition for each category of revenue.
This includes the application ofrules relating to the various ways in which the Group sells its products around the world and recognition policies forcritical estimates and judgements including i sales to partners versus end users and: ii deferral of revenue onbundledproducts.
The Committee has continued to monitor the application of the Groups revenue accounting policy, receiving reports onthe work performed to confirm adherence to the Groups policy.
Existing revenue recognition policies have remained a key area of focus for the Committee throughout 2018 and the outputs of the IFRS 15 impact assessments performed during FY18 have enabled the Committee to assess the continued appropriateness of existing policies and the consistent application of them.
This continues to be a key area of focus for the Committee given the ongoing transition in business model from the sale of standalone software licences to selling software as a service.
The revenue recognition accounting policy is set out in note 3.1 to the financial statements and is referenced in the Groups significant accounting judgements.
During FY18 management has performed an in-depth review of existing revenue recognition policies in order to determine the potential areas of impact resulting from the upcoming implementation of IFRS 15.
The Committee hasoverseen this exercise through attendance of briefing sessions with the external auditors and review of reports onareasof impact and approach to transition.
See page 97 detailing the Committees assessment of the effectiveness ofthis process.
The Committee discussed and challenged managements conclusions in respect of both existing and upcoming revenue recognition policies, satisfying itself that the approach applied to determine revenue recognised in FY18 was appropriate, consistent across the Group and in line with the Groups accounting policy.
The Committee also received and discussed the external auditor reports setting out its work and conclusions on this area.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Goodwill impairment testing The amount of the Groups goodwill balances and the continuing evolution of Sages business model mean that the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill is a significant area of focus for the Committee.
The Committee considered managements approach and procedures for testing the recoverability of goodwill balances as part of the annual impairment test.
This year, attention has also been paid to the carrying amount of the goodwill arising from the acquisition of Sage Intacct in the previous financial year.
This year the Committee has, again, considered the appropriateness of the CGUs tested for impairment.
Given the continued evolution of the Groups management structure and how the associated goodwill is monitored, certain CGUshave now been combined into groups of CGUs for the purposes of the annual impairment test.
Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Poland have been grouped as Central Europe: Spain and Portugal have been grouped as Iberia: and South Africa and the Middle East have been grouped as Africa and the Middle East.
The Committee reviewed and considered the detailed analysis of the key inputs to forecast future cash flows including discount rates and growth rates, used in calculating recoverable amounts on a value in use basis.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the assumptions used and reviewed the impact of a sensitivity analysis applying downside scenarios.
The Committee also considered if there were any reasonably possible changes in assumptions that would result in a material impairment and therefore require further disclosure in the financial statements.
Due to the recent timing of the Intacct acquisition, the headroom for the Sage Intacct CGU is lower than the other CGUs.
In line with the requirements of IAS 36, sensitivity disclosures are included in note 6.1 to the financial statements for the Intacct CGU.
The Committee was satisfied that no sensitivity disclosures were required other than for the Sage Intacct CGU.
From the information provided in the report and discussions with management, the Committee obtained assurance thatthe change to the CGUs was appropriate and an impairment to the carrying value of goodwill was not required.
The Committee also considered a report from the external auditor setting out its procedures and conclusions in this area.
Allocation of Sage Intacct goodwill The accounting for a business combination involves significant judgement and estimation, particularly in relation to thegoodwill and other intangible assets recognised.
This includes the IFRS 3 requirement for management to consider if any existing CGUs are expected to benefit from the synergies arising from a business combination and allocate goodwill to those CGUs on that basis.
The Committee received details from management on the final accounting for the Sage Intacct acquisition including the allocation of goodwill.
The Committee considered the assumptions and estimations used and challenged managements conclusions.
It also received and discussed a report from the external auditor which set out its work and conclusions in this area.
Accordingly, the Committee was satisfied that goodwill was appropriately allocated to the UKI, Australia and Africa and Middle East CGUs as they are expected to benefit from the synergies arising from the acquisition in the foreseeable future, in line with the original acquisition plan.
96 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE New IFRS standards Taxation Three new IFRS standards become effective for the Group The Committee reviewed and considered reports from over the next two years.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts management in respect of uncertain tax positions and with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will provisions and the deferred tax position.
These reports apply to the next financial year ending in 2019, and IFRS 16 included consideration of the impact on the Group of Leases to the following financial year ending in 2020. thesignificant reforms of taxation in the US which were announced in December 2017 and became effective from Of these, IFRS 15 is the most significant for the Group, 1January 2018, as well as developments with regards to the where, in line with other software companies, the impact European Commissions State Aid review.
The Committee isbroad and can result in a change to both the amount was satisfied that managements approach to accounting for andtiming of revenue recognition.
Management does not taxation was appropriate and took account of developments expect IFRS 15 to fundamentally change the presentation during the year.
The Committee also considered the ofthe Groups previously published financial statements but outcome of work performed by the external auditor a detailed exercise was performed to reach this conclusion.
inthisarea which confirmed the conclusions.
During the year, management performed an impact assessment consisting of a full review of revenue Fair, balanced and understandable recognition practices, contracting arrangements and the Each year, the Committee advises the Board on whether Go to Market strategy for key products.
This involved a theAnnual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, wide variety of teams across the business including product, balanced and understandable and provides the information sales, marketing and finance representatives, reflective of necessary for shareholders to assess Sages position and the complex nature of the project and the potential for far performance, business model and strategy.
itsconclusion, the Committee considered the results of managements assessment of going concern, reviewed The Committee closely monitored the progress of the project.
It received detailed updates from management and theAnnual Report and Accounts document as a whole, andassessed the results of processes undertaken by the external auditors on the progress and resultant updates to the project throughout the year.
The proposed approach management to provide assurance that the Groups financial statements were fairly presented.
These processes included to revising the Groups accounting policies was reviewed and challenged by the Committee.
Additionally, due to the an analysis of how the key events in the year had been described and presented in the Annual Report and Accounts, significance of this new standard, the Committee held an additional meeting during the year to consider and discuss how alternative performance measures APMs had been defined and presented, and the outcome of representations the technical aspects of IFRS 15. received from country management teams on the The Committee also received updates on managements application of a range of financial controls.
The Committee assessment and implementation of IFRS 9.
The standard also considered the perspective of the external auditor.
haslimited impact on non-financial sector entities.
For Sage, the impact on transition arises on recognition of impairment Viability statement and Going Concern provisions for trade receivable balances.
The Committee The Committee reviewed managements process for was satisfied with the approach taken by management assessing the Groups longer-term viability in order to allow andwith the results of the impact assessment.
the Directors to make theGroups viability statement.
The Committeeconsidered and contributed tothe determination The Committee considered managements disclosure in of the period over which viability should be assessed, and thefinancial statements of the effects of the new standards which of the Groups principal risks should be reflected in and its compliance with accounting standards and related themodelling of sensitivity analysis for liquidity and solvency.
The Committee was satisfied that Itreviewed the results of managements scenario modelling the approach taken by management and the resulting and the reverse stress testing of thesemodels.
The impact assessment is appropriate.
These disclosures, Committees principal review was conducted at the covering the changes introduced by the standards and September Committee meeting with all comments and theidentified areas of impact, are contained in note 1 recommendations addressed by management in advance to the financial statements.
ofCommittee approval of the viability statement.
At theNovember 2018 meeting the Committee reviewed managements going concern assessment and approved thecontinued application of the going concern basis.
The Groups going concern and viability statements can be found on pages 129 and 68-69 respectively.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED assessing whether the control systems are fit for purpose Risk Management and Internal Controls and whether any corrective action is necessary.
The Committee assists the Board in its monitoring of the Companys internal control and risk management systems, In-Focus Reviews and in its review of their effectiveness.
This monitoring includes oversight of all material controls, including The Committee uses in-depth reviews to consider relevant, financial, operational, regulatory and compliance controls, current and important issues.
During the year, in addition tomonitoring the progress of preparations for IFRS 15, the Committee: i undertook a review of the Groups approach to managing compliance with sanctions laws: ii received During the year, the Committee: briefings and updates on Sages approach to achieving compliance with GDPR and provided review and challenge reviewed the principal risks, their evolution of these activities: iii reviewed and challenged a briefing during the year, and the associated risk appetites received on the key bribery-related risks faced by Sage and metrics in light of business changes and andthe steps being taken to mitigate those risks: and performance, challenging and confirming their iv reviewed papers on Sages obligations relating to alignment to the achievement of Sages strategic conflicts of interest and Sages framework for approving and objectives.
At each meeting, the Committee keeping a record of actual and potential conflicts of interest considered the ongoing overall assessment in order to ensure effective management of those conflicts.
ofeach risk, their associated metrics and management actions and mitigations in place Incident Management, and planned.
This review was supported through  consideration of risk dashboards outlining both The Committee considered the suitability and principal risks and any escalated local risks: alignmentofthe Incident Management and Whistleblowing received and considered minutes of meetings of policies and confirmed their effectiveness in facilitating the Global Risk Committee, including scrutinizing  to senior executive management its performance in managing risk, and the andthe Committee.
At each meeting, the Committee suitability of its composition: received a summary report of any escalated incidents undertook detailed In-Focus reviews on selected andinstances of whistleblowing and, together with relevant and, current issues see In-Focus management, considered whether there were any thematic Reviews section : issues and identified remediating actions.
As part ofthis reporting process, the Committee was notified of all reviewed and considered an assessment of whistleblowing matters raised, including those relating to theeffectiveness of risk management more financial reporting, the integrity of financial management broadly, and reviewed summary reports from and any allegations relating to fraud, bribery or corruption.
Sage Compliance on Group adherence to The Committee was also notified of all non-whistleblowing policies, including Conflicts of Interest, Antiincidents exceeding anagreed materiality threshold.
Money Laundering and Delegation of Authority: received reports from Sage Assurance and Following its review of the Companys internal control management on internal control and monitored systems, the Committee considered whether any matter the implementation of management actions required disclosure as a significant failing or weakness in toremediate issues identified and make internal control during the year.
The Committee also satisfied itself that managements response to any Internal Audit financial reporting or internal financial Internal audit is delivered by the Sage Assurance function.
controlissues identified by the external auditorwas appropriate: The Internal Audit Charter outlines the objectives, authority, reviewed at each Committee meeting escalated scope and responsibilities of Sage Assurance.
The Charter, incidents and instances of whistleblowing and performance against it, and the effectiveness of Sage management actions to remediate any issues Assurance, is reviewed by the Committee on an annual identified see Incident Management, Fraud basis.
The review of the Charter was undertaken at the andWhistleblowing section below : and Committees February meeting.
The Committee also considers and evaluates the level of Sage Assurance considered individual incidents and associated resource and its quality, experience and expertise, actions to assess whether they demonstrated supplemented as appropriate by third party support and asignificant failing or weaknesses in subject matter expertise, to ensure it is appropriate to internalcontrols.
provide the requiredlevel of assurance over the principal risks, processes and controls throughout the Group.
98 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE The Committee reviewed and approved the nature and The Committee confirms that Sage has complied with scope of the work of Sage Assurance, and the Sage therequirements of the Statutory Audit Services for Assurance plan was approved by the Committee at the LargeCompanies Market Investigation Mandatory Use beginning of the financial year, along with any subsequent ofCompetitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee quarterly updates.
Responsibilities Order 2014, which relates to the frequency and governance of tenders for the appointment of the Progress against the plan and the results of Sage external auditor and the role of the Audit Committee.
Assurancesactivities, including the quality and timeliness Underthese requirements, and the terms of the order of management responses, is monitored at each meeting, Sagemust undertake a formal tendering process at withthe more significant issues identified within Sage leastevery ten years.
Assurance reports considered in detail by the Committee.
During the year, an external assessment of internal audit was carried out by KPMG which evaluated Sage Assurance To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the against leading practices and Institute of Internal Auditors external audit process, the Committee reviewed IIA standards.
This review considered progress against and agreed: recommended areas for improvement from the previous the terms, areas of responsibility, associated evaluation in 2015, along with progress made against the duties and scope of the audit as set out in the pillars of the Assurance strategy.
The assessment confirmed external auditors engagement letter: compliance with the IIA standards and concluded that significant progress continued to be made and that Sage the overall work plan and fee proposal: Assurance remains effective and meets the needs of the the issues that arose during the course ofthe Group.
Findings included the expansion of the existing audit and their resolution: useof data analytics and the continued development of an integrated assurance framework.
This report was presented key accounting and audit judgements: to the Committee, its findings were discussed, and the the level of errors identified during the audit: and Committee endorsed this conclusion.
control recommendations made by the externalauditor.
External auditor EY Each year, the Committee makes a recommendation to The Committee monitored the effectiveness, theBoard with regard to whether the external auditor objectivity and independence of the external should bere-appointed.
In making its recommendation, auditor during the year.
The Committee based theCommittee considers the auditors effectiveness, itsassessment of EY on its own observations includingits independence, objectivity and scepticism.
The andinteractions with the external auditor, and Committee also reviews the application of, and compliance consideration of a number of aspects of the with, the Groups Auditor Independence Policy, in particular auditors performance, including: with regard to any non-audit services provided by EY.
The Committee also considers business relationships between the experience and expertise demonstrated by the Group and EY, which primarily relate to EYs the auditor in its direct communication with, procurement of Sage products and applications.
andsupport to, the Committee: the content, quality of insight and added value Further consideration is given to partner rotation and any provided by the auditors reports: other factors which may impact the Committees judgement regarding the external auditor.
the scope of the agreed external audit plan and the external auditors execution and fulfilment EY has now been Sages external auditor for four years since ofthe plan: the formal tender process conducted in 2014.
The current the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor audit partner is Alison Duncan and she has been in the role in its handling of key accounting and audit for all four years since FY15.
Audit partners are required to judgements: and rotate every five years to safeguard the external auditors independence with the 2019 audit being Alison Duncans the interaction between management and final year as the audit partner.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Consistent with the previous year, the Committee received The Policy states that Sage will not use the external auditor feedback from the businesses evaluating the performance for non-audit services, except in limited circumstances, of each assigned audit team.
Managements report included andas permitted by the Ethical Standard, where non-audit a summary of the findings of a survey of key Sage colleagues services may be provided by the external auditor with on the quality of the auditors delivery, communication pre-approval by the Committee unless clearly trivial.
This is andinteraction with the various finance teams across provided that the approval process set out in the Policy is theGroup.
Management concluded that the working adhered to and that potential threats to independence and relationship between finance functions and auditors objectivity have been assessed and safeguards applied to acrossthe Group was effective and the audit had been eliminate or reduce these threats to an appropriate level.
carried out in an independent, professional, organised The Committee considered the application of the Policy with andconstructive manner.
regard to non-audit services and confirms it was properly The Committee holds private meetings with the external and consistently applied during the year.
The Policy also auditor after each Committee meeting to review key issues requires that the ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees must within their sphere of interest and responsibility and provide be within Sages pre-determined ratio, and non-audit fees for an opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the the year must not exceed 70% of the average of the external external auditor without management being present.
Also, audit fees billed over the previous three years.
the Chairman meets regularly with the external auditor In 2018, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit fee was 4%, outside of the formal Committee meeting schedule to principally reflecting the fee paid for the half year interim facilitate effective and timely communication.
A breakdown of total audit and non-audit fees theCommittee received a report from EY evaluating charged by the external auditor for the year under itsindependence and a formal statement of EYs reviewisshown in note 3 to the financial statements.
Having considered all of the above, the Committee has Evaluation of the performance of recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint theCommittee EY be proposed at the 2019 AGM and the Board has The evaluation of the Audit and Risk Committee for 2017 18 accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
was completed as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
An explanation of how this process was conducted, Non-audit services the conclusions arising from it and the action items identified The Committee is responsible for the development, is set out on page 83.
The Committee has considered this implementation and monitoring of policies and procedures inthe context of the matters that are applicable to on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, in theCommittee.
accordance with professional and regulatory requirements.
At Sage this is governed by the Auditor Independence Policy the Policy.
The Policy has been in place throughout the year.
It specifies the role of the Committee in reviewing and approving non-audit services in order to ensure the ongoing Jonathan Howell independence of the external auditor.
A summary of Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is provided to the Committee on a quarterly basis.
20 November 2018 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to review thecomposition, skills and experience of the Board and to Report of the plan for its progressive refreshing, with regard to balance and structure.
The Committee also considers issues of succession.
The Chairmans other significant commitments Nomination are detailed on page 76.
Committee meetings Committee This year the Committees main activity was focused onreviewing the overall composition of the Board and, following our announcement on 31 August 2018 regarding Stephen Kelly, recruiting a new Chief Executive Officer.
TheCommittee also considered Board succession planning more generally and the process of approving the next Board Associate.
In addition to the formal Committee meetings there were frequent informal exchanges.
Soni Jiandani was unable to attend one meeting, but received the papers Donald Brydon andprovided comments to the Chairman in advance.
The Chairman of Committees annual evaluation was conducted internally theNomination and concluded that the Committee continues to function Committee effectively in respect of its core purpose.
Board changes The Board appointed Blair Crump as an additional Executive Nomination Committee Membership Director on 1 January 2018.
As the head of Sages sales organisation, Blair brings to the Board the management view of one of the largest parts of our organisation and complements the financial and operations focus of Steve Donald Brydon Chairman Hare.
On 31 August 2018, the Board announced that it had Attended 5 of 5 meetings reached mutual agreement with Stephen Kelly, who stepped down from his role as a Director and Chief Executive Officer from that date.
The Board appointed Steve Hare, Chief Financial Officer, to the additional post of Chief Operating Drummond Hall Officer, on an interim basis.
On 2 November 2018, Board Attended 5 of 5 meetings announced that it had appointed Steve Hare to the role of Chief Executive Officer with immediate effect.
The Board instructed the Committee to initiate a process to find a new Chief Financial Officer.
It was agreed that Steve Hare will Soni Jiandani combine his duties as Chief Financial Officer with those Attended 4 of 5 meetings asChief Executive Officer, supported by senior finance colleagues, until a new Chief Financial Officer is appointed.
The Committee instructed Egon Zehnder, who do not provide any other services to the Company, to assist in the search for the new Chief Executive Officer.
Egon Zehnder presented to the Committee a longlist of potential candidates, which was considered by the Committee.
As the external search progressed, the Committee also considered possibility of internal candidates and noted, in particular, Steve Hares strong performance in the combined role of interim Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Following detailed discussion and careful consideration, the Committee recommended to the Board that Steve Hare be appointed to the role of Chief Executive Officer.
We will report on the selection process for a new Chief Financial Officer in our FY19 Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED theHampton-Alexander Management succession and talent pipeline Sage has Review in November 2016 The Committee has continued to work to put appropriate toincrease female board voluntarily succession plans in place in order to ensure the right mix representation and also ofskills and experience of Board members now and in the submitted combined Executive future.
In addition, the Board recognises the need for talent Committee and direct report to be nurtured within executive and management levels gender to Executive Committee andacross the Group as a whole.
The appointment of Blair representation to at least 33% diversity Crump to the Board together with two permanent Executive by 2020.
Sage has voluntarily Committee appointments from within the internal pipeline submitted gender diversity data to the Ron McMurtrie and Amanda Cusdin demonstrate the data to the Hamptonimproved depth and breadth of skills and experience in HamptonAlexander Review since ourtalent pool.
This will continue to be an area of focus itsinception and this year during FY19 and beyond.
Alexander wereported that 35% of Sagessenior management Review since Diversity & Inclusion population which, for the its inception.
During FY18, Sage has won several awards for its diversity purposes of our Hampton and inclusion programme.
A diverse workforce brings a Alexander Submission broader range of perspectives, and drives innovation which includes members of the will support us in better understanding our customers and Executive Committee and increating amazing products and providing services which theirdirect reports is female, customers need.
The Board and senior executives play a key an increase of 5% on FY17.
role in setting the tone on diversity and inclusion, and the Further details ondiversity, Nomination Committee applies the principles of Sages including in our broader written Diversity & Inclusion Policy when considering seniormanagement team, theseappointments.
Board Diversity Specifically, the Policy states that we are committed to: Gender Executive Tenure Non-executive Ensuring that the wording and images used in adverts and job descriptions reflect and appeal to all sections of society, are relevant and 75% 25% 75% 25% 63% 37% non-discriminatory Short-listing only those whose skills, qualifications and experience closely match thejob requirements Asking fair, objective and consistent questions Female Non-Executive 1-3 years during the selection process.
We use selection Male Executive 3 years criteria that do not discriminate in any direct or indirect way for all of our roles.
When considering appointments to the Board and to senior executive positions, it is the policy of the Committee to evaluate the skills, experience and knowledge required withdue regard for the benefit of diversity including gender diversity on the Board and at senior management level, andto make an appointment accordingly.
During FY18 the Committee has made one Executive Director appointment, Donald Brydon that of Blair Crump.
His inclusion diversifies the Boards Chairman of the Nomination Committee overall skills and experience, particularly in respect of knowledge of our sales organisation and our customer base.
20 November 2018 Blair also brings strong US geographic experience to a majority UK-based group of Directors.
The Board and theCommittee have noted the recommendations of 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
