Governance Key Board statements Compliance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and manages Sagas statement operations in accordance with the Code.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website www.
The Company applied the Principles and complied with all of the relevant Provisions of the Code throughout the year.
Viability The Directors have considered the viability of the Group over the five year period to statement January 2023 and have concluded there to be a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this period.
The Directors have determined the five year period to January 2023 to be an appropriate period over which to assess the Groups viability, as this period: a i s consistent with the planning horizon over which the Directors normally consider the future performance, capital and solvency requirements of the business: b i ncludes the delivery of the contracted new ships in 2019 and 2020: and c includes the refinancing of senior bank facilities which took place in 2017, maturing in five to seven years.
In making this statement, the Directors have considered the resilience of the Group, taking account of its current position, the principal risks facing the business in severe but plausible scenarios, and the effect of any mitigating actions.
The details of this work are set out on page 73.
The Directors have considered each of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties detailed on pages 24-29 and the potential impact of these risks on the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
The Directors have made a key assumption that it is reasonable to believe that debt funding to replace the existing senior bank facilities when they mature will be available in all plausible market conditions.
Fair, balanced and In accordance with the Principles of the Code, the Board has established arrangements understandable to evaluate whether the information presented in the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and performance, its exposure to risk and its management of these risks, details of its financial instruments and derivative activities, and details of other financial and non-financial liabilities, are described throughout the Annual Report principal risks and uncertainties pages 24-29: Group Chief Financial Officers review pages 36-51: accountability pages 69-73: Audit Committee report pages 74-77: Risk Committee report pages 78-81: and notes on pages 140-207.
The Group has access to sufficient cash and other financial resources together with a large renewing income stream from insurance policies and high-repeat purchase levels from customers of its other products, and long-term contracts with a number of suppliers across different industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to successfully manage its business risks.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
It is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Assessment Through the risk cycle detailed on pages 69-73, the Board is able to confirm that it has of risk carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those which would threaten our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, in accordance with section C 2.1 of the Code.
Statement of The risk management process detailed on pages 69-73 was in place for the year under review review and up to the date of approval of this report.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of Sagas risk management and internal control systems, including all material financial, operational and compliance controls, and concluded that these are acceptable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 54 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Company applied the main Principles B.
Effectiveness of the Code as follows: B1 The composition of the Board The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly A.
Leadership reviewing the composition of the Board, considering A1 The role of the Board succession planning and evaluating the skills, knowledge The Board met formally six times during the year.
and experience required of Board candidates.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board detailed on page 57 was reviewed on 20 September B2 Appointments to the Board 2017.
There is a clear governance structure throughout The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led the Group, which sets out delegated authorities.
by the Nomination Committee and the process is such that candidates are selected on merit and with due A2 Division of responsibilities regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between This included the search for a successor to the the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Further details of the activities of the The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and Nomination Committee can be found on pages 66-68. effectiveness of the Board.
The Group Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading the day-to-day B3 Commitment management of the Group within the strategy set On appointment, Directors are notified of the time by the Board.
A document clarifying these divisions commitment expected from them.
External directorships, and the role of the Senior Independent Director was which may impact on the existing time commitments reviewed and approved by the Board on 6 November of the Executive Directors, must be agreed beforehand 2017.
This document is reviewed annually by the Board.
A3 The Chairman B4 Development The Chairman sets the agenda for meetings, manages A tailored programme is set up when a Director joins the meeting timetable in conjunction with the Company the Board and this is ongoing to ensure that Directors Secretary and facilitates open and constructive dialogue skills and knowledge are regularly updated during the meetings, with particular focus on strategic and refreshed.
The Chairman promotes constructive relations B5 Information and support between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company A4 Non-Executive Directors Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive The Non-Executive Directors provide objective, accurate and timely information and are kept informed rigorous and constructive challenge to management on all governance matters.
and meet regularly without the Executive Directors.
B6 Evaluation The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding The Board conducted an externally facilitated annual board for the Chairman, led an evaluation of the evaluation of its own performance and that of its Chairmans performance and is available for Committees and individual Directors, as set out on meetings with major shareholders.
B7 Re-election of Directors All Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 55 Governance Key Board statements continued C. Accountability D. Remuneration C1 Financial and business reporting D1 The level and components of remuneration The Board has established arrangements to ensure that The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting reports and other information published by the Group levels of remuneration which will attract, retain and are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Strategic motivate Board members.
Remuneration is structured Report is set out on pages 1-51 inclusive and this to link it to both corporate and individual performance, provides information about the performance of the so that managements interests are aligned with Group, the business model, strategy and principal risks those of shareholders and the long-term success and uncertainties relating to the Groups future prospects.
C2 Risk management and internal control D2 Procedure The Board sets out the Groups risk appetite and risk Details of the work of the Remuneration policy.
The effectiveness of the Groups risk management Committee and the Remuneration Policy can be and internal control systems is reviewed annually.
found in the Directors Remuneration Report on The activities of the Risk Committee, which assists pages 83-121 inclusive.
the Board with its responsibilities in relation to the E. Relations with shareholders management of risk, are summarised on pages 78-81.
E1 Dialogue with shareholders C3 Audit Committee and auditors The Board actively engages with shareholders The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities and values opportunities to meet with them.
to the Audit Committee, which is responsible for The Chairman has direct contact with our major overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes, shareholders and ensures that the Board is kept internal controls and the work undertaken by the informed of shareholder views and that all Directors external auditor.
The principal activities of the are in touch with shareholder opinion.
The Senior Audit Committee are set out on pages 74-77.
Independent Director also meets with major shareholders as required and the Non-Executive The Chairs of the Risk and Audit Committees are Board Directors receive analyst and broker briefings.
members and provide regular updates to the Board regarding Committee business.
E2 Constructive use of general meetings The Board sees the AGM as an important opportunity to meet shareholders.
The Chairman and Chairs of each Committee are available for questions during the formal part of the business and the Board and senior management are available after the meeting.
Details of how the Board engages with shareholders can be found on page 82.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 56
