Strategic Report Our resources and relationships People and culture We want our employees to feel closely aligned to the Our people are core to our brand.
They bring the Saga success of our business and this year, for the third Way to life by putting our customers and colleagues year, we awarded all eligible employees up to 300 at the heart of everything they do.
We continue to build worth of shares.
a culture which encourages our people to be brave and We have continued to embed our reward principles, and challenge each other to do the right things for our have kept our pay and benefits competitive and fair customers.
We work together as One Saga to deliver while managing costs.
exceptional products and services to our customers.
We consulted on changes to our pension schemes This year we reshaped our structure to focus proposing changes that were more sustainable for the increasingly on our customers.
Through regular organisation in the long term.
We have kept our defined communication, we have made sure our people benefit scheme open to new colleagues as well as understand how our business is changing and why.
encouraging our employees to keep saving.
We want our employees to reach their potential We support the Governments commitment to address wherever they work in the business and in 2017 we: the gender pay gap through annual reporting.
launched the Leadership degree through the Saga We are a proud member of the 30% Club because Academy, to which over 50 employees have signed we see gender diversity as a business imperative.
up for to date: invested in leadership development to take over We value diversity not just because it is the right 400 of our senior managers through the Leading thing to do, but because diverse teams perform better.
the Saga Way programme which focuses on building Creating a culture in which everyone feels welcome a high-performing culture in the business: and and offering equal opportunities in all aspects of re-launched our graduate management employment and advancement continue to be trainee scheme.
Together with new apprenticeship programmes in a Diversity and an employee base that brings different range of teams and the Saga Academy, which provides perspectives, backgrounds and ways of thinking is very a suite of learning and development tools for all our important to our business.
Fair consideration is given to employees, these initiatives will help us attract talent applications from all applicants, including those with to Saga.
To support making Saga a great place to disabilities: and to continuing the employment of work, we hold listening groups and carry out regular employees who become disabled during employment.
engagement surveys, the outputs of which are shared with our leaders across the business.
We are committed to treating all employees fairly and to offering equal opportunities in all aspects of We continue to strive for high levels of employee employment and advancement.
Whilst our sustainable engagement score fell slightly in 2017 from 81% to 77%, we are committed to using the insight to improve our overall sustainable engagement score.
We were delighted that more than 70% of our people completed the online survey in 2017 and we have continued to out-perform the UK norm in a number of key areas such as our employees supporting our values and being proud to be associated with Saga.
Gender diversity January 2018 Male Female Total Actual % Actual % 1 Board 5 71 2 29 7 2 Senior managers 131 68 63 32 194 3 Employees 1,736 42 2,359 58 4,095 All 1,872 44 2,424 56 4,296 Notes: 1 Directors of the Company including executive and non-executive 2 All divisional directors, and employees with strategic input and influence 3 All Saga employees excluding directors and senior managers Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 20 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Community and social Public relations Saga is a major employer in Folkestone, Thanet, There is an important social commentary aspect to Hastings and Redhill, as well as having satellite the Saga brand.
We have represented the views of offices in Redhill, Bolton, Durham, Coventry and our members on a wide range of issues that affect the Peterborough.
We recognise the impact that we have in nations over 50s including stamp duty exemptions for the communities in which we operate, which is why we downsizing, energy costs, cybercrime, GP waiting times, are so proud to support these areas through charitable NHS treatment and employment.
giving and employee volunteer programmes.
Saga is strictly non-party political, but we do survey In 2016, Saga announced a three year partnership the opinions of our members through the Saga Populus with The Silver Line, the UKs only 24-hour helpline for Panel the largest poll of over 50s opinion.
This poll isolated older people.
Through the support of customers, has been running for more than 10 years, giving us employees and the business, Saga gave 228k to The enhanced insight into a wide range of views that are Silver Line during the first year of the partnership.
In 2017, we launched our local giving programme, which Human rights assists registered charities based within a 20-mile Saga conducts business in an ethical and transparent radius of our office sites.
Policies to support recognised human rights principles include those on non-discrimination, health Our partner sites continue to support charities which and safety and environmental issues.
resonate with their brands or with which their employees have a strong connection.
This year, Titan The Group is committed to transparency within our Travel continued to support the Golden Lion Childrens supply chain.
We have carried out risk assessments Trust: Destinology raised funds for The Bolton Hospice: and conducted due diligence on our material suppliers, and Bennetts has supported the PICU unit at full details of which are included in our annual Addenbrookes Hospital.
statement which is published as stipulated under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
This statement summarises CSR Site Representatives at each office coordinate our actions to address the risk of modern slavery and fundraising activities, respond to charitable enquiries human trafficking within our own operations and those and recruit volunteers.
In 2016, match funding was introduced to employee Antibribery and anticorruption payroll giving and this has been rolled out further during Saga has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and 2017.
Employees taking part in fundraising activities for corruption.
An anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy is registered charities can now apply for match funding.
in operation throughout the Group to ensure compliance with the Bribery Act 2010.
We undertake regular risk We also launched an employee lottery in aid of charity assessments of our activities and destination markets, this year.
and design suitable procedures to mitigate the risk of bribery and corruption.
These include due diligence Our offices were again selected as contact centres for before entering into new business acquisitions, material Children in Need and the phones were manned by supplier contracts and joint ventures.
Sagas Financial volunteers from across the business.
Crime, Data and Information Security Committee monitors the effectiveness of our policy and procedures, As a signatory to the Corporate Covenant, we have and oversight is provided by the Audit Committee as set policies that support employees who are members of out in the Committee report on page 74. the reserve forces or whose spouses serve in our armed forces.
To mark Armed Forces Day, representatives Health and safety from the armed services were invited to Sagas HQ.
Saga is committed to protecting the health, safety and Donations were made to: The Royal British Legion: The welfare of employees, customers and anyone affected Armed Forces charity SSAFA: Help for Heroes: and The by our operations.
We have a positive health and safety Royal Navy and Royal Marines Charity.
culture and seek to continuously improve health and safety performance.
The Saga Respite for Carers Trust provided 28 holidays for unpaid carers during 2017, utilising remaining trust We meet our obligations through the development and funds before closing on 2 February 2018. implementation of suitable policies and procedures.
This year the Saga Charitable Trust continued to provide Beyond this, everyone in Saga has a personal grants to projects in the developing world in areas visited responsibility for health and safety and for performing by Sagas holidaymakers.
Eleven grants totalling over the activities they undertake in a safe manner and this 124,000 were awarded.
Projects included a mobile is regularly communicated.
clinic in India, vocational training for deafblind people in Nepal, and a community kitchen in Peru.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 21 Strategic Report Our resources and relationships continued Greenhouse gas emissions Total location-based emissions This section of the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation as a listed company to report greenhouse gas GHG Scope 1 2% 5% emissions pursuant to section 7 of the Companies Scope 2 location-based Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Scope 3 Regulations 2013.
Total GHG emissions decreased by 13% during the 2017 18 financial year compared with the year before.
Saga plc has emitted a total of 90,317 tCO e from fuel 2 combustion Scope 1 direct and electricity purchased for our own use Scope 2 indirect.
This is equivalent to 74.7 tCO e per m customer spend.
The Scope 3 2 93% emissions, which we choose to report voluntarily, have increased significantly due to improved data coverage in 2017 18.
The expanded reporting of emissions Methodology arising from business travel gives our stakeholders We quantify and report our organisational GHG greater visibility of our actual impact.
emissions in alignment with the GHG Protocol, which includes alignment with the Scope 2 Guidance The table below shows GHG emissions for the year reporting Scope 2 purchased electricity using both the ended 31 January 2018: location-based and the market-based methodology.
GHG emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO or 2 The UK 2017 Government GHG Conversion Factors for carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e Company Reporting have been applied to calculate 2 Scope 1, Scope 2 location-based and Scope 3 2017 18 2016 17 emissions from corresponding activity data.
SupplierEmissions Source Emissions Emissions specific emissions factors have been applied for the Scope 1 86,264 tCO e 100,951 tCO e 2 2 calculation of Scope 2 market-based emissions.
Scope 2 Reporting boundaries and limitations location-based 4,053 tCO e 5,343 tCO e 2 2 We consolidate our organisational boundary according Total Scope 1 & 2 90,317 tCO e 106,294 tCO e 2 2 to the operational control approach and have adopted a tCO e per 2 materiality threshold of 5% for GHG reporting purposes.
m customer spend 74.7 89.9 The GHG sources that constitute our operational Scope 2 1 boundary for the 2017 18 reporting period are: market-based 221 tCO 658 tCO 2 2 Scope 3 2,187 tCO 425 tCO e 2 2 Scope 1: Natural gas combustion within boilers, marine fuel combustion within ships, road fuel Note: combustion within vehicles, fuel combustion within 1 Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK non-road mobile machinery and fugitive refrigerants and emissions from purchased electricity calculated using the from air-conditioning equipment.
market-based approach using supplier-specific mission factors are reported in tCO rather than tCO e due to the availability Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption for our 2 2 of emission factors own use.
Scope 3: Business travel from grey fleet and from taxis, transmission and distribution losses associated with electricity consumption.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 22 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Saga plc is disclosing diesel used in non-road Improving performance machinery for the second year.
This year, the disclosure In collaboration with Carbon Credentials, we continue has been further expanded to include business travel to monitor and measure our carbon impact.
in taxis and transmission and distribution losses There have been efforts to reduce energy usage across associated with electricity consumption.
As in previous Saga plc during 2017 18, and overall Scope 1 and 2 years, Scope 3 business travel emissions from rail and emissions have reduced by 15% compared with last year.
air have been identified, but not included in our disclosure due to a lack of accurate data.
Marine fuel usage, which is the largest contributor to our emissions, has decreased by 8% compared with last Assumptions and estimations year.
This is attributed to more fuel efficient itinerary The Bel Jou hotel in Saint Lucia was sold during the planning and two dry docks during the financial year: 2016 17 financial year and is no longer part of the as fuel quantity may improve in future years, we Group.
expect that fuel use per passenger will decrease.
In some instances, where data is missing, values Furthermore, there have been reductions in every have been estimated using either an extrapolation of energy consuming activity apart from natural gas available data from the reporting period or data from consumption and Scope 3 business travel.
Energy procurement decisions The graph below shows Saga plcs Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity, which have been calculated using both the location-based and market-based methodologies.
Scope 2 electricity emissions by reporting type 5,343 tCOe 4,053 tCOe 658 tCOe 221 tCOe Scope 2 location-based Scope 2 market-based 2016 17 emissions 2017 18 emissions Saga purchases 100% renewable electricity for the majority of its buildings from Haven Power.
The remainder of the electricity Saga uses in the UK is supplied by SSE which has a cleaner fuel mix than the UK average.
As in previous years, the dual reporting of our emissions demonstrates that we are making efforts to reduce our impact on the climate through the purchase of electricity generated from cleaner sources.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 23
