Governance Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the report of the Risk Committee the Committee which outlines the activities and responsibility of the Committee with respect to the year-ended 31 December 2018.
As announced in our 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, with effect from 1 January 2018, the Risk Committee separated from the Audit Committee and during the year the Committee devoted its time to assessing SANNEs risk appetite, risk tolerances and risk management systems, in order that the Group was well placed to respond to changing risks and our business environment.
The work of the Committee in 2018, included advising the Board on risk management and compliance is described in detail in this report.
I would like to thank the other Committee members for their support during the year and I look forward to continuing to chair the Committee in 2019.
Committee membership Membership and attendance at the scheduled Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Eligible Committee members to attend Attendance Mel Carvill Committee Chairman 5 5 Andy Pomfret 5 5 1 Yves Stein 1 1 Eligible Past committee members to attend Attendance 2 Nicola Palios 5 4 Rupert Robson3 5 5 1 Yves Stein joined the Board on 1 October 2018.
2 Nicola Palios stepped down from the Committee on 31 October 2018.
3 Rupert Robson stepped down from the Committee on 31 October 2018.
indd 74 08 04 2019 11:50:30 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 A Annual Repor nnual Report and A t and Accoun ccounts f ts for the y or the year ended 2018 ear ended 2018 St Stock code: SNN ock code: SNN sannegr sannegroup oup.. com com Appropriate skills and experience Role and responsibility of the committee On 31 October 2018, the Board considered it appropriate to The role of the Committee was authorised by the Board and its depart from the previous practice whereby each Non-executive main duties in 2018 are listed below: Director sat on most of the Board committees.
In order to advising the Board of the Companys overall risk appetite, maintain the integrity of the composition of the Committee, and tolerance and strategy and overseeing the risk exposures of the to ensure sufficient co-ordination between the Committee and Company and its future risk strategy: the Audit Committee, which may discuss overlapping matters, the Chairman of the Audit Committee has remained a member of the keeping the Companys overall risk assessment processes Committee.
The Committee is composed entirely of independent under review and ensuring that both qualitative and quantitative Non-executive Directors and is in compliance with the UK metrics are used: Corporate Governance Code the Code.
setting a standard for the accurate and timely monitoring of large exposures and certain risks, which the Company believes Mel Carvill, Andy Pomfret and Yves Stein have appropriate relevant are of critical importance: financial sector experience.
Mel Carvill is a Chartered Accountant, holds the Advanced Diploma in Corporate Finance and worked reviewing the performance of the risk management function across a range of sectors in the European financial services and the compliance function and ensuring they have industry.
Andy is a qualified Chartered Accountant, has held the adequateresources: positions of the Finance Director and CEO in Investment Banking keeping under review the performance of the CRCO: and and was a founder member of the Prudential Regulation Authority Practitioner Panel.
Yves is a Luxembourg national with more than working with management to enable, actively promote 30 years of experience in the banking industry through various and oversee a risk-aware culture that sees Group-wide risk senior positions in Corporate Banking, Fund Services and Wealth management as an integral part of the business, supported by Management.
The Board has determined that the Committee as transparency and consistency.
a whole has the relevant competence and experience and their biographies are set out on pages 49 to 51.
During the year the Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated.
The Committees new terms of reference are On appointment to the Committee there is an appropriate available on the Companys website at www.
induction, consisting of: an induction pack which contains relevant useful information to get the members up to speed as quickly as possible including, but not limited to, the Committees terms of reference, previous Committee papers, and information on the Companys financial performance and operational risks: and an introduction to the Groups Chief Risk and Compliance Officer CRCO and key members of staff.
At the invitation of the Committee, the CEO, CFO, CRCO and Internal Audit Director attended meetings.
In addition, the Deloitte audit partner and other management are requested to attend meetings during the year as required.
indd 75 08 04 2019 11:50:30 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Risk Committee Report Topics discussed by the Committee during the year: Principal risks and uncertainties The Committees activities, carried out during the year and The Principal Risks and uncertainties facing the Company are set subsequently, covered, but was not limited to, the following topics: out in the risk management report section of the Strategic Report on pages 34 to 40.
Compliance Compliance reporting Internal control and risk management Policies and procedures As part of its ongoing monitoring the Committee received written reports from the CRCO, on behalf of SANNEs combined Risk Horizon scanning and Compliance functions across the three lines of defence, and Risk Management monitors risk across the business.
The Committee oversees the global risk matters for the business, in particular it has responsibility Risk management reporting for identifying and assessing all risks across the Group.
It ensures Risk appetite assessment these risks are appropriately managed and controlled.
Risk mapping, risk matrix and scorecard Controls were embedded within the business processes, forming part of the culture with emphasis on clear management Enterprise risk management accountabilities and responsibilities.
The Committee responded Other quickly to emerging risks, both within the Group and the external business environment.
The Committee introduced procedures Review of terms of reference for reporting any control failings, or weaknesses, together with the Committee evaluation details of corrective action taken to improve the internal controls.
Regulatory updates Three lines of defence Internal audit updates During the year the Committee oversaw the ongoing development of, and enhancements to, its three lines of defence operating Risk management framework and governance model across the business.
Effectively, the model splits the The Board is responsible for ensuring the maintenance of SANNEs business into three functions - First, Second and Third Lines - each risk management and internal control systems with regards to the with specific responsibilities.
Further information on the three lines Principal Risks facing SANNE in achieving its strategic objectives.
of defence model can be found in the risk management report on The Board has delegated responsibility for monitoring the page 34.
The work being undertaken by the functions is reported Companys risk management and internal controls systems to the via the Committee on a regular basis.
Committee including the annual review and reporting to the Board.
To assist with the assessment of risk management and internal controls, the Committee received regular reporting on the Principal Risks and the adequacy of the control framework from the CRCO.
indd 76 08 04 2019 11:50:30 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Group Policy Framework Committee effectiveness review The Groups Policy Framework ensures SANNEs policies set The Committee effectiveness review for 2018 was conducted minimum standards that are fit for purpose and aligned to the risks internally.
The evaluation covered the operation and administration SANNE is facing in its business activities.
Policies are broken down of the Committee.
The Committee was reported as being run into chapters and may include mandatory procedures and further professionally and effectively under the Chairmans guidance.
Theseparation of the Audit and the Risk Committees was considered to be a positive development, with the efficiency During 2018, mandatory training on Anti-money Laundering of the Committee continually improving during the year.
It was and Data Security was delivered via e-learning to all staff.
A Risk also reported that opportunities for improvement within the Education Programme which will deploy a comprehensive risk Compliance function to support the growth and expanding awareness and learning schedule for 2019 and beyond was defined geographical coverage of the Company were being addressed and approved.
by the unification of the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Compliance Officer roles and the recruitment of key new hires.
Cyber security Priorities for 2019 SANNE has a dedicated team in place responsible for Information Security and has a number of tools in place to prevent or detect the The priorities for the Committee over the next 12 months are risks arising from Cyber Security.
There are plans in place to further asfollows: enhance and expand existing infrastructure in this area.
to continue to embed and strengthen SANNEs three lines ofdefence model: Data protection to strengthen SANNEs risk culture: Data Protection Officers DPOs provide the expertise and to monitor regulatory changes and the impact of external support to the business in relation to data protection risks: their factors on the Group: and work is supported by Group polices on this theme and associated procedures which help the business in the identification, to liaise with the Audit Committee to ensure that any linked management and reporting of such risks.
Regulatory change and compliance The Committee and the Board are provided with technical updates on regulatory and legislative changes at each meeting.
TheCommittee, along with the Board, monitors regulatory changes Mel Carvill through its horizon scanning framework.
The Committee also Chairman of the receives detailed compliance reports at each meeting.
Risk Committee 21 March 2019 77 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
