Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 the Financial Statements.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Political donations As a premium listed company on the London Stock Exchange SANNE has not made any donations to any political party.
we are committed to comply with the Code, which is available on the FRC website at www.
During the year the Group has Statement of Directors Responsibilities complied with all of the provisions of the Code.
Our statement on Directors Responsibilities has been provided on page 101 of this Report.
Diversity Equality and diversity are fundamental values supported by Material interest in shares SANNE.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and encourages diversity.
We are committed to ensuring disabled Up to year-end, being 31 December 2018, and as at 28 February people are afforded equality of opportunity in respect of entering 2019, being the latest practicable date before the publication of the and continuing employment with us.
The Group aims to provide report, the following disclosures of major holdings in voting rights training opportunities that are identical, as far as possible, for have been made to the Group pursuant to Rule 5 DTR.
The Board recognises that As at 28 February 2019 diversity in our people brings a range of perspectives and skills Shareholder % interest in voting rights that make the Company stronger and also reflects our customer Standard Life Aberdeen plc 13.84 base.
SANNE considers applicants for all roles regardless of gender, Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 9.98 ethnicity, religion and age.
Applicants are all treated equally and Wellington Management Group LLP1 4.99 there is a diverse workforce.
Grandeur Peak Global Advisors, LLC 3.23 We respect individuals and their rights in the workplace and, with 1.
On 31 December 2018, Wellington Management Groups % interest in voting this in mind, specific policies are in place to prevent or, where rights, as notified to the company, was 5.04%.
issues are raised, address harassment and bullying and to ensure equal opportunities.
Other statutory information Directors and officers insurance We recognise the benefits of encouraging diversity throughout The Company maintains appropriate levels of Directors and the business and believe that this will contribute to our continued officers insurance as well as professional indemnity cover for success.
All appointments are made based on merit and are allitsoperational businesses and engagements.
measured against specific objective criteria including the skills and experience needed for the position.
Gender diversity at SANNE is an important metric for the business to constantly address and we are committed to increasing the participation of women at the Board, Executive Committee and senior management level.
In 2018, we have improved in this area and, importantly, in ouroverall ranking in the FTSE Women Leaders annual review conducted by Hampton-Alexander review.
SANNE is now ranked inthe top 10 best performers amongst FTSE 250 firms.
TheBoardsdiversity policy can be found on the Companys website at www.
indd 60 08 04 2019 11:50:20 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 A Annual Repor nnual Report and A t and Accoun ccounts f ts for the y or the year ended 2018 ear ended 2018 St Stock code: SNN ock code: SNN sannegr sannegroup oup.. com com Material contracts Allotment of shares The Company is not party to significant agreements which take At the AGM held in 2018 the Shareholders generally and effect, alter or terminate on a change of control following a unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities takeover bid apart from credit facilities with banks.
On 1 March up to two-thirds of the of the nominal authorised share capital.
2019, the group refinanced the loan facility and repaid the existing It is the Directors intention to seek the renewal of this authority loan in full by drawing down on the new facility.
Full details of the inline with the guidance issued by the Investment Association.
total amount drawn down on 1 March 2019 is shown in note 37 Theresolution will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
At the AGM in 2018 the Directors were also empowered by the shareholders to allot equity securities of up to 5% of the Information set out in the Strategic Report Companys issued share capital for a transaction which the Board The following information has been included in the determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment as StrategicReport: defined by the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles.
information about our people can be found in the Chairmans In line with the guidance of the Pre-emption Group it is the Boards Statement page 8 : intention to propose that an additional special resolution be an indication of likely future developments in the business passed at the AGM to allow the Company to allot equity securities ofthe Company pages 16 to 43 and up to a further 5% of the Companys issued share capital for transactions which the Board determines to be an acquisition or risk management pages 34 to 40. other capital investment as defined by the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles.
Dividend As part of the acquisition of FLSV Fund Administration Services The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 9.2p per LCC, which completed on 1 November 2016, SANNE agreed ordinary share which will be recommended for approval at the to pay part of the consideration in shares.
As part of the AGMbe paid on 21 May 2019 to Shareholders on the register at transaction, SANNE will issue and allot the final batches of retained theclose of business on 26 April 2019.
For more information consideration shares on 1 November 2019 and 1 November 2020. onthedividend policy and its application, refer to the Chief Financial Officers Review on page 29.
In 2017, SANNE agreed to acquire Luxembourg Investment Solutions S. A. and Compliance Partners S. A. and as part of the transaction, which completed on 6 February 2018, it agreed to pay Share capital part of the consideration in shares.
The final consideration shares were issued and allotted on 28 August 2018.
The issued share capital of the Group and the details of movements in share capital during the year are shown in note 24 As part of the AgenSynd S. L. acquisition, first announced with onpage 141 of the Financial Statements.
our Interim Results on 11 September 2018, SANNE agreed to pay part of the consideration in shares.
The final consideration shares The holders of the shares are entitled to receive dividends when wereissued and allotted on 13 September 2018. declared, to receive a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts, toattend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
A waiver of dividend exists in respect of 2,622,846 unallocated shares held by Sanne Fiduciary Services Ltd as the trustee of the Sanne Employees Share Trust EBT or The Trust asat31 December 2018.
The rights attached to the shares are provided by the Companys Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced by means of a special resolution of the Company in a general meeting.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by Jersey Company law and by the Articles of Association.
Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange andmay be traded through the CREST system.
indd 61 08 04 2019 11:50:20 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Directors Report Purchase of own shares Disclosure of information to the external auditors The shareholders approved the authority for the Company to buy The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market purchase Directors report confirm that so far as they are aware, there is until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
The Directors no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of the Companys unaware and each Director has taken all the necessary steps to issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
This power will only make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to be exercised if the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
increase the earning per share of the ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and accordingly, that the purchase is in the Subsidiaries interest of shareholders.
SANNE did not purchase any of its own ordinary shares during 2018.
SANNE operates through various subsidiaries in a number of different countries.
The subsidiaries list is available on page 138.
Articles of association Listing rule compliance The Companys Articles of Association set out its internal regulations and cover the rights of shareholders, the appointment For the purposes of DTR 4.1.
8 R the required of Directors and the conduct of Board and general meetings.
content of the management report is included in the Strategic Copies of the Articles of Association are available upon request Report and this Report.
from the Group Company Secretary, and at SANNEs AGM.
4 R the information required Anextraordinary general meeting of the Company was held to bedisclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R listing can be found in the on1October 2018 during which a resolution was passed to followinglocations.
Section Location 1 Amount of Interest Capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited information LR 9.2.
8 R Not applicable 3 N A Section removed by the FCA handbook Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration Report pages 78 to 100 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Page 141 8 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major Not applicable subsidiary holdings 9 Any participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary undertaking Not applicable 10 Any contracts of significance Page 61 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholders waiver of dividends Disclosed on page 61 13 Shareholders waiver of future dividends Disclosed on page 61 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable 62 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
indd 62 08 04 2019 11:50:21 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Board uses the AGM to communicate with shareholders.
Thechair of each of the Boards committees will be present to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
Proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote on resolutions or to withhold their vote.
All votes are counted by SANNEs Registrars and the voting results will be announced through the RNS, and made available on our website www.
Annual General Meeting Electronic copies of the notice of the fourth AGM to be held on 16May 2019 at 11.30am at One Birdcage Walk, Westminster, London, United Kingdom, SW1H 9JJ, can be viewed or downloaded from the Companys website, www.
At that meeting, shareholders will be asked to vote separately on the Annual Report and on the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Separate resolutions will also be proposed on every substantive issue.
A poll will be held on each resolution to ensure that the votes of the shareholders unable to attend the meeting are taken into account, and results of the voting will be placed on our website as soon as possible after the meeting.
Auditor Following a review the Board proposes that Deloitte LLP are reappointed as the SANNEs auditor.
A resolution proposing this willbe put to the AGM.
On behalf of the Board of Sanne Group plc Dean Godwin Chief Executive Officer 21 March 2019 63 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
indd 63 08 04 2019 11:50:21 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Nomination and Governance Committee Report It was agreed that the second appointee would be Luxembourg Dear Shareholder based, very well networked in the Benelux fund environment and I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination and with fund administration experience across a variety of asset Governance Committee the Committee for the year ended classes.
An external executive search company was appointed 31December 2018.
2018 was a busy year for the Committee, to recommend a number of potential candidates and, following duringwhich we oversaw the replacement of the CFO and a rigorous process, Yves Stein, a Luxembourg national with more appointed three additional Non-executive Directors in order to than 30 years of experience in the banking industry through bring further skills to the business and enhance the diversity of various senior positions in Corporate Banking, Fund Services the Board.
Following year-end, the Company has announced andWealthManagement, was appointed.
the appointment of the CEO Designate following a recruitment selection process undertaken by the Committee.
As part of their selection process, Julia and Yves attended interviews with all the members of the Board and were appointed Spencer Daley announced his intention to step down from his with effect from 1 July 2018 and 1 October 2018, respectively.
role as CFO in March 2018, taking up the role of Head of M&A and Theirbiographies are set out on page 51.
A resolution will be Strategy, and left SANNE in October 2018.
James Ireland was proposed at the forthcoming AGM for their election.
appointed as Spencers replacement in July 2018.
I wish to thank Spencer for his contribution to the Board and welcome James who During the year, the Board ran a thorough recruitment process has extensive knowledge in the industry and has worked closely foraCEO successor following Dean Godwins decision to retire.
with SANNE for a number of years.
This process utilised external consultants and reviewed and assessed a strong field of internal and external candidates.
In addition to Mel Carvills appointment to the Board on 1 January On23January 2019, SANNE announced the appointment of 2018, the Board decided to recruit two additional Non-executive MartinSchnaier, an internal candidate, as an executive Director Directors to strengthen the base of skills, experience and andCEO Designate of the Company.
Martin Schnaier will take geographical knowledge on the Board.
For the first appointee, it overthe role ofCEO at the conclusion of the AGM on 16 May 2019. was deemed appropriate that a candidate should be Jersey-based with an understanding of the global alternative assets industry Following the Board appointments made during the year, and listed experience of the Main Market of the London Stock theCommittee believes the current composition represents Exchange.
The Board concluded that SANNEs knowledge of the a strong and well-balanced Board with the necessary skills Channel Islands employment market was significantly greater and experience to manage and develop the Company, than that possessed by search firms traditionally used for FTSE and recommends that each of the Directors be elected 250 board-level appointments.
The Board, therefore, decided to or re-electedatthe forthcoming AGM.
use internal search resources to identify suitable candidates.
It was agreed that there was no conflict of interest in using internal Succession planning was considered by the Committee resources.
A shortlist of candidates was generated and, following andithascontinued the talent programme for senior a series of interviews, Julia Chapman was identified as having the .
requisite financial services, listed company and legal experience to be a full contributor at the Board.
indd 64 08 04 2019 11:50:23 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 A Annual Repor nnual Report and A t and Accoun ccounts f ts for the y or the year ended 2018 ear ended 2018 St Stock code: SNN ock code: SNN sannegr sannegroup oup.. com com With effect from 1 January 2018, the Committees remit has been The Committees role and responsibilities include: expanded to specifically include Governance, which provided an reviewing and nominating candidates for both Executive and opportunity to consider regulatory changes and the application Non-executive roles: of SANNEs corporate governance systems and processes as the Group has grown.
managing the size, structure, composition, knowledge, skills, capacity and diversity, including gender diversity, of the Board Following the publication of the revised UK Corporate Governance when considering suitable candidates: Code the Code in July 2018, the Committee has put in place a evaluating the Companys policy and practices for executive combination of a workforce advisory panel and three designated talent management development and diversity: Non-executive Directors as the mechanism for gathering the views of the workforce.
understanding the role and leadership needs that are required by the business and to review talent to ensure that the The Committee have also overseen the revision of the terms Company maintains the ability to compete and win further of reference of all Board committees to ensure that each is market share: responsible for giving due consideration to the interests of, and the impacts on, the workforce and other key internal and external considering director performance and, upon consideration, stakeholders when decision making.
recommending to Shareholders their election or re-election atthe AGM: Additionally, the Committee discussed the guidance notes succession planning: published by the GC100 on the practical steps that can be taken in order to effectively implement section 172 of the Companies Act reviewing the balance and composition of the Board: 2006.
The Committee reviewed the five distinct themes discussed considering the Code and other corporate governance by the GC100, including our current status in respect to each legislation, guidance or regulatory change: and of their considerations and recommendations, and approved a number of actions points to ensure the Company is fully compliant making necessary changes to the corporate governance with the guidance.
structure or Company procedures in order to comply with prevailing corporate governance regulations, codes or During the year the Committee also reviewed its Diversity Policy marketpractice.
and this is available on our website www.
The terms of reference of the Nomination and Governance I would like to thank the other members of the Committee for Committee are available on the Companys website their contribution and support during the year.
the Committee, I will be available at the AGM to answer questions about the work of the Committee during the year.
Succession planning on the Board Membership and attendance of the The Committee annually reviews its effectiveness and composition  Committee and its long-term succession planning.
The Committee considers the balance of skills, experience and independence.
One of the Membership and attendance at the scheduled Committees key roles is to discuss succession planning to ensure Committeemeetings during the year was as follows: that a pipeline of talent is developed within the business.
Ultimate responsibility for making senior management appointments rests Eligible with the CEO.
Committee members to attend Attendance Rupert Robson Committee 5 5 Chairman Mel Carvill1 5 4 2 Julia Chapman 3 2 Nicola Palios 5 5 Andy Pomfret 5 5 3 Yves Stein 2 2 1.
Mel Carvill was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
Julia Chapman was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2018.
Yves Stein was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2018.
indd 65 08 04 2019 11:50:23 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Nomination and Governance Committee Report Committee activities during the year Committee effectiveness review During the year, the Committee: The Committee effectiveness review for 2018 was conducted internally and it reported that the Nomination and Governance recommended to the Board that Julia Chapman and Yves Stein Committee runs effectively.
The Committee received a positive be appointed as Non-executive Directors: evaluation.
The existing Board portal would be updated to include recommended to the Board the appointment of James Ireland quicker access to the Companys policies and procedures as well as CFO: as the materials used in the Board induction and on-going Director training.
This would also be helpful for the existing members discussed senior executive appointments and succession oftheCommittee and when new Non-executive Directors join planning: inthe future.
considered the annual effectiveness review and determined that the Directors and the Chairman had sufficient time Director induction todischarge their roles: An induction programme for the new Non-executive Directors recommended to Board a revised composition of wasbased upon the ICSA guidelines and tailored to SANNE.
itscommittees: Furtherinformation on this is included in the Corporate recommended members of the Committee to provide Governance Report on page 55. mentoring to some of the key Senior Executives: considered regulatory and legislative changes, including Mentoring and knowledge sharing therevision of the Code: The Committee wants to help develop the future leaders of the recommended to the Board the establishment of a workforce business and is involved in providing guidance and expertise where advisory panel and identified three designated Non-executive appropriate.
There have been a number of mentoring meetings Directors to liaise with the panel: and between the Non-executive Directors and senior management.
updated the terms of reference of the Board committees.
Following year-end, the Committee also recommended to the Board the appointment of Martin Schnaier as CEO Designate.
Rupert Robson Diversity and inclusion Chairman of the Nomination It is the Companys policy to ensure that proposed appointments andGovernance Committee and succession to the Board as outlined by the Code, are based on merit and judged against objective criteria.
In addition 21 March 2019 the Company seeks to ensure that it reflects differences in culture, gender, skills, background, regional and financial services experience and other qualities.
With this in mind, the Committee reviewed its Diversity Policy.
A copy of the Boards Diversity Statement is available on the companys website at www.
At 31 December 2018, SANNE had two female Board members out of a Board of eight Directors.
Shortlists of prospective clients contain male and female candidates and the Board is focused on seeking to increase diversity.
