Governance Leadership Directors Chairman The Board of Directors have their profiles on pages 49 to 51.
The The Chairman, Rupert Robson, leads the Board, provides direction Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five and ensures that there is a clear structure in place for the effective independent Non-executive Directors.
operation of the Board and its committees.
He sets the agenda for Board meetings, and promotes effective and constructive discussion at meetings.
He is responsible for ensuring that the Board changes Directors receive timely and accurate information.
During 2018 there were a number of changes made to the In addition, the Chairman works with the CEO to ensure strategies composition of the Board.
Phil Godley resigned from the Board agreed by the Board are implemented.
He is a support for the CEO on 1 January 2018.
Spencer Daley resigned as CFO and took up whilst respecting the CEOs responsibility for managing the Group.
the post of Head of Mergers & Acquisitions, James Ireland was There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman appointed as CFO with effect from 1 July 2018.
Thereafter, Spencer and CEO, and this has been defined and was established when Daley resigned from the Board on the 2 October 2018.
Godwin notified the Board of his intention to retire at the close of the AGM on 16 May 2019 and Martin Schnaier was announced The Board considered the time commitment of the Chairman, in as his successor and appointed to the Board on 23 January 2019. light of his other time commitments, as noted in his biography on Mel Carvill joined the Board on 1 January 2018 and was appointed page 49, and concluded that he fully satisfied his obligations to the Chairman of the newly formed Risk Committee.
There has been no change in his other time commitments appointed as a Non-executive Director with effect from 1 July 2018, since last year.
and has joined the Remuneration and Nomination & Governance Committees.
Yves Stein was appointed as a Non-executive Director with effect from 1 October 2018 and has joined the Risk and Nomination & Governance Committees.
On 31 October 2018, Andy Pomfret and Mel Carvill both came off the Remuneration Committee, Nicola Palios came off the Risk and Audit Committees and Rupert Robson came off the Risk Committee.
indd 54 08 04 2019 11:50:17 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Non-executive Directors Conflicts of interest In accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended, Non-executive Directors bring a strong independent element and all Directors disclose to the Company the nature and extent of any a breadth of skills and experience to the Board.
The Non-executive interest of the Director whether direct or indirect of which the Directors bring constructive challenge and are responsible for Director is aware in any transaction entered into, or proposed to be the effective running of the Boards committees.
They need to entered into, by the Group or any of its subsidiaries which conflicts, satisfy themselves that the Groups financial controls and risk or may conflict, to a material extent with the interests of the Group.
management are robust and effective.
The Directors Register of Conflicts of Interest is maintained by the Group Company Secretary and is reviewed by the Directors as a Senior Independent Director standing agenda item at every Board meeting.
Andy Pomfret is the Senior Independent Director SID.
TheSIDs role is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman, and to serve as Directors election and re-election an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
Heleads In accordance with the requirements of the Code B.
7.1, the Chairmans annual performance evaluation and brings newlyappointed Directors and all existing Directors will submit independent judgement to the Board.
themselves for election and re-election respectively, at the 2019 AGM.
The Board recommends the election or re-election The SID is also available to shareholders if they have issues as appropriate of each member of the Board based upon or concerns that have not been resolved through the normal their skills, experience and contribution to the Board, and its channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO, or for which such contact Committees and their ability to bring long-term Shareholder isinappropriate.
Thespecificreasons why the Board considers each ofthe Directors contribution to be important to the long-term Group Company Secretary sustainable success of the Company is specified in the NoticeofAGM.
Ian Portal is the Group Company Secretary and supports the Chairman in the delivery of Board and governance procedures.
Inparticular he assists with the induction of new Directors and the annual cycle of Board and committee meetings.
He supports the Board Induction smooth operation of governance by working with the Chairman, and the chairmen of the committees.
He additionally provides Mel Carvill, James Ireland, Julia Chapman, Yves Stein support to the Chairman in ensuring compliance with relevant legal andMartin Schnaier, on appointment to the Board, and regulatory requirements.
He arranges for the Directors to meet wereprovided with: with executives, visit offices in the Group and provides information access to the Groups portal for Board and on corporate governance.
CommitteePapers: The Group Company Secretary helps by providing advice and access to the Group Company Secretary: services and keeps accurate records of all meetings.
a list of key contacts, and meetings were arranged withkeystaff: Independent advice There is a process in place, facilitated by the Group Company a background briefing on key issues by the Chairman: Secretary to enable any Director to take independent professional a Board induction pack: and advice at SANNEs expense.
This advice would be in relation to the performance of any aspect of their duties.
training tailored to their position.
