Governance SANNEs Executive Committee SANNE is led by an experienced team of industry experts.
Dean Godwin James Ireland Martin Schnaier Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer Designate Based in Jersey, Dean is responsible Based in London, James is responsible for Based in London, Martin was Chief for overseeing the running of the global managing the financial operations strategy Commercial Officer until January 2019, at business and delivering business strategies of the Group.
He works closely with all which point he was successfully appointed that underpin the long-term development areas of the global business and also as SANNEs Chief Executive Officer of the service and operations platform.
oversees the Groups M&A and company Designate.
He is due to officially take up secretarial teams.
his post at the close of SANNEs AGM on 16 May 2019.
Jonathan Ferrara Mark Law Sean Murray Managing Director Channel Islands Chief Commercial Officer Managing Director, Alternative Assets EMEA Based in Jersey, Jonathan is responsible Based in Hong Kong, Mark is responsible for providing expert guidance and support for overseeing the delivery of the client Based in Luxembourg, Sean is responsible to the client service leadership teams in services business globally.
He works closely for the management and strategic SANNEs Channel Islands operations.
with SANNEs regional Managing Directors direction of SANNEs EMEA Alternatives based in North America, the Channel business which includes Private Debt and Islands, EMEA, APAC and Mauritius.
Capital Markets, Real Estate, Private Equity and Hedge special business areas.
indd 52 10 04 2019 17:20:00 26236 10 April 2019 5:19 pm Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Zena Couppey Eric Watson Martin Pearson Managing Director Chief Operating Officer Chief Risk & Compliance Officer Business Development Based in Jersey, Eric is responsible for Based in London, Martin is responsible Based in Jersey, Zena is responsible overseeing SANNEs group services for SANNEs global risk and compliance for overseeing client relationship functions that include information functions, risk management framework management, business development technology, human resources, business and regulatory matters.
systems, change management, operations, legal and facilities.
Fred Steinberg Managing Director, Alternative Assets North America Based in New York, Fred is responsible for the management and strategic direction of SANNEs EMEA Alternatives business which includes Private Debt and Capital Markets, Real Estate, Private Equity and Hedge special business areas.
