Governance Board Effectiveness Role of the Board The Board is ultimately responsible for approving and overseeing the implementation of SANNEs strategy and ensuring appropriate systems ofinternal controls and risk management are in place.
The Board also reviews performance management, and ensures the business has the right resources in place throughout the Group, to deliver long-term value to Shareholders and to ensure the business thrives.
Material acquisitions are decisions that are also reserved for the Board.
Other matters include the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and shareholder circulars, announcements and approval of share and other capitalisation issues and the approval ofrecommendations for a dividend.
How the Board spent its time in 2018 During the year the Board considered a wide range of matters that included: Topics discussed January March May June September October December Strategy Budgets Business update Compliance Governance matters Committee reports Divisional and regional plans Announcements Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year Results, the AGM Notice and dividends Dividends and dividend policy Acquisitions and integration Risk Management and internal controls Conflicts of Interest People matters including diversity Staff survey Financial performance Re-appointment and election of Directors at the AGM Updates on governance and legal matters Succession planning and talent development Board evaluation and effectiveness review Investor major shareholder information 56 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
indd 56 08 04 2019 11:50:18 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Board meeting attendance Succession planning The Board held 7 scheduled meetings during the year: Talent development and succession planning has been discussed by the Board, and in more detail at the Nomination and Eligible to Governance Committee during the year.
Progress has been made attend Attended in establishing training to promote and develop talent within the Rupert Robson 7 7 business.
The Board oversees a mentoring programme which was Nicola Palios 7 7 expanded in 2018 in order for two senior managers to be mentored by a Non-executive Director.
Andy Pomfret 7 7 Dean Godwin 7 7 In 2018, the Board ran a thorough and vigorous succession Mel Carvill 7 7 process, helped by external consultants, which reviewed and 1 Spencer Daley 5 5 assessed astrong field of internal and external candidates, 2 James Ireland 3 3 following which Martin Schnaier, an internal candidate, was 3 Julia Chapman 3 2 appointed to CEO Designate.
Spencer Daley stepped down from the role as CFO on the 1 July 2018 and Directors training stepped down from the Board 1 October 2018.
James Ireland was appointed to the Board as CFO on the 1 July 2018.
Members of the Board are provided with regular updates and 3.
Julia Chapman, an independent Non-executive, was appointed on 1 July 2018. training in order to keep them up to date with industry and regulatory Julia could not attend one Board meeting due to a commitment that was developments.
In order to assist the Directors, regulatory updates planned before she joined the Board.
are provided at each meeting and professional advisers also provide 4.
Yves Stein, an independent Non-executive, was appointed on 1 October 2018. technical updates.
All Directors are free to attend seminars and briefings, at SANNEs expense, in areas considered to be appropriate The Directors attendance at committee meetings is disclosed in for their own professional development including governance and the separate reports of each committee on pages 64 to 100. issues relevant to the committees on which they sit.
The Board held 7 scheduled meetings during the year under review as per the table above.
Non-executive Directors communicate Evaluation of Chairman and Directors directly, and have had informal meetings with Executive Directors The SID led the Non-executive Directors and conducted a and senior management between formal Board meetings.
performance review of the Chairman.
The review covered Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board, and leadership, performance and overall contribution, all these factors the committees on which they sit, and to devote sufficient time to were of a high standard, and the Chairman has their full support.
the Group to enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Nonexecutive Directors letters of appointment confirm the minimum The Chairman met with each Director to discuss their number of days each should be prepared to devote to the Group.
contributions to Board and committees.
Following the Chairmans The time commitments required by the Non-executive Directors review the Board confirmed that, in line with the Code, the were discussed by the Nomination and Governance Committee Directors have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities during the year and, taking into account external commitments, it and that any external appointments they hold do not distract was felt that the Non-executive Directors committed sufficient time fromthe time available to the Company.
to SANNE and were not unduly stretched by their commitments to other organisations.
The Board recommends the shareholders support the election orre-election of the Board at the forthcoming AGM inMay2019.
The specific reasons why the Board considers Board diversity eachof the Directors contribution to be important to the The Board supports the recommendations in the Code and long-term sustainable success of the Company is specified ensures that diversity and gender are considered when making intheNoticeofAGM.
The Board acknowledges the HamptonAlexander Review on FTSE Women Leaders, which recommends a voluntary target of 33% female directors in FTSE 350 companies by 2020.
As at the year-end, 25% of the Board are female.
TheCommittee also considered the recommendation of the Parker Review that each FTSE 250 board should have at least one director of colour by 2024, and the recommendations of theMcGregor-Smith Review.
The Board seeks to ensure it has the rightbalance of independence, skills, and knowledge to enable it tomeet its responsibilities.
Candidates are selected irrespective ofbackground.
SANNE seeks to promote diversity.
indd 57 08 04 2019 11:50:19 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Board Effectiveness The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced and Relationship with shareholders understandable position of the Group in the Annual Report and The Group continues to maintain an active dialogue with its key Accounts and the half-year results.
A statement about this is stakeholders, including institutional investors, to discuss issues madein the report of the Audit Committee on pages 67 to 72. relating to the performance of the Group including strategy and new developments.
The Non-executive Directors are available to discuss any matter stakeholders might wish to raise, and the Board committees Chairman and independent Non-executive Directors will attend As part of the governance framework the Board has authorised meetings with investors and analysts as required.
committees to ensure there is a focus on accountability.
Thecommittees meet separately and regularly throughout the Our investors are kept up to date with regulatory news releases year.
A detailed list of the duties of each committee can be found through our regulatory news service RNS and press releases.
in their terms of reference which are available on our website.
Copies of the past RNS announcements can be found on the The Board has delegated the Groups strategic direction which Groups website www.
com is considered and approved by the Board to Dean Godwin, the CEO.
Following Martin Schnaier s appointment, Martin and Dean Board visit have been working closely together to ensure an orderly transition before Deans retirement at the end of the AGM on 16 May 2019.
During the year, the Board visited SANNEs office in Luxembourg, and had the opportunity to formally meet the management team.
The Directors were able to: Audit Committee receive presentations about the local operations: The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee, which includes overseeing the Companys financial meet office staff informally: and reporting process.
get an in-depth view of the regional opportunities.
Risk Committee Information and support The Risk Committee advise the Board on the Companys overall The Chairman, aided by the Group Company Secretary, risk appetite, tolerance and strategy.
They oversee the current risk isresponsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate exposures, future risk strategy and review the Companys internal andtimely information.
The Group Company Secretary compiles controls and risk management system.
the Board and committee papers which are circulated to Directors in advance of the meeting via a secure web portal.
Board papers Nomination and Governance Committee are distributed in time to allow sufficient time for review.
The Group Company Secretary also ensures that any feedback or suggestions Oversight, responsibility and the recommendation of executive for improvement on Board papers is fed back to management and appointments is provided by the Nomination and Governance standard reporting evolves to incorporate suggested amendments Committee.
The Committee is also responsible for succession and enhancements.
planning and reviewing the overall composition of the Board.
Governance oversight and review is also provided by the During the year the Board and committees had specific Nomination and Governance Committee.
There was focus on a number of topics including the implementation of the revised Code.
Remuneration Committee Accountability Remuneration strategy and incentives are reviewed and aligned Risk management and internal controls to match the Groups strategic aims by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee sets and reviews The Board is responsible for the review and assurance over the executive pay and rewards.
Groups systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Executive Directors and senior management are responsible for the implementation and maintenance of an Executive Committee effective system of internal controls.
The Board is also responsible for risk assessment and management.
The Executive Committee operates under terms of reference approved by the Board.
The Board has sight of the minutes The Board makes an assessment of the maintenance of the oftheCommittee.
It operates to support the CEO in the systems of management and control.
The Board during the year runningofthe Group.
delegated part of the responsibility for the review of this to the Risk Committee, which then reported back to the Board.
Further information can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 34 to 40 and in the Report of the Risk Committee on pages 74 to 77.
indd 58 08 04 2019 11:50:19 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Following the evaluation, a report was presented to the Board Administration Committee which included a year-on-year comparison showing to what extent The Administration Committee comprises any two Directors the areas discussed had improved, the outcomes of specific anddeals with matters of a routine nature on behalf of the Board.
improvement actions agreed at the start of 2018 and determined The decisions of the Administration Committee are tabled at the areas for further development in 2019. eachBoard meeting.
The Chairman also conducted private one to one conversations with individual Directors on the outcomes of the collective Board Culture and ethics evaluation, and discussed with them their personal contributions and any areas for further learning and development.
The Senior The Board understands the importance of promoting ethical Independent Director, also reviewed the Chairmans leadership conduct and integrity in its leadership.
During the year the CEO has and management of the Board with each Director individually.
issued communications to all staff on the subject of culture and integrity.
Culture and integrity is promoted in the staff handbook Overall, the Directors feedback indicated a high level of satisfaction and reinforced through regular communication.
with the operation of the Board.
The evaluation observed that the Board dynamics were good, the Board is led by a skilled Chairman, who is appreciated by the Directors and he has a good working Board evaluation process relationship with the CEO.
Following on from the first external Board evaluation last year, inaccordance with B.
6. of the Code, the Company conducted aninternal Board evaluation for 2018.
The methodology and scope of the evaluation were discussed andagreed with the Chairman.
Questionnaires were used to get the Directors feedback on the Board and committee relationships, composition, effectiveness, leadership, roles, activities and development as well as considering other areas including culture, technology and the Board processes for developing strategy, dealing with acquisitions and managing risk.
