Governance Corporate Governance Report Governance framework and Group committees The work of the Board is supported by its committees, and this financial year these consisted of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Risk Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee.
The Board and its committees reviewed their terms ofreference, and updated them in line with the new UK Corporate Governance Code with effect from 1 January 2019.
The terms of reference for each of the committees can be found on our website, www.
com, and reports from each committee are foundonpages 64 to 100.
Each committee meets separately, and at regular intervals throughout the year.
Day-to-day management has been delegated by the Board: development of the Group and its strategic direction is led by the Groups Chief Executive Officer CEO and considered by the Board: and the Groups Executive Committee manages the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Details of the composition of the Executive Committee are found on pages 52 and 53.
Governance structure at a glance The structure chart below sets out the composition of the Board and its committees shown as at 28 February 2019, being the last practicable date prior to publication of the Report: SANNE GROUP PLC - BOARD Chairman: Rupert Robson 1 Nicola Palios Andy Pomfret Mel Carvill Julia Chapman James Ireland Yves Stein Martin Schnaier Dean Godwin AUDIT NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION RISK COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Chairman: Andy Pomfret Chairman: Rupert Robson Chairman: Nicola Palios Chairman: Mel Carvill Nicola Palios Mel Carvill Nicola Palios Andy Pomfret Rupert Robson Andy Pomfret Yves Stein Mel Carvill Julia Chapman Julia Chapman Yves Stein ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Further information about the Board committees is available on page 58 and in the committee reports on pages 64 to 100.
Sanne Group plc is incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and has its registered office at IFC 5, St Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey.
Mel Carvill was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
Julia Chapman was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2018.
James Ireland was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2018.
Yves Stein was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2018.
Martin Schnaier was appointed to the Board on 23 January 2019.
Dean Godwin will be stepping down from the Board on 16 May 2019.
