Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder Committee membership The report outlines the activities and responsibility of the Eligible AuditCommittee the Committee for the year ended Committee members to attend Attendance 31December 2018.
Andy Pomfret Committee Chairman 6 6 During the year the Committee and the Board devoted time to Mel Carvill 6 6 assess the approach to and the integrity of the Groups financial Nicola Palios 6 5 reporting, monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls framework, and overseeing the activities of the Eligible Internal Audit function and external auditor.
As announced in our Past committee members to attend Attendance 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, the Audit and Risk Committee 1 Julia Chapman 2 2 was separated into two separate committees with effect from 1 January 2018.
The Risk Committee took ownership of duties 1 Julia Chapman joined the Board on 1 July and stepped down from the with regard to risk management and compliance with effect Committee on 31 October 2018. fromthatdate.
Appropriate skills and experience At the request of the Board, the Committee reviewed the contents of the Annual Report and Accounts and confirmed to On 31 October 2018, the Board considered it appropriate to the Board that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Accounts depart from the previous practice whereby each Non-executive taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Director sat on most of the Board committees.
In order to maintain information for shareholders and investors to be able to review the integrity of the composition of the Audit Committee, and to theGroups financial performance, business model and strategy.
ensure sufficient co-ordination between the Committee and those other committees which may discuss overlapping matters, During the year the Committees terms of reference were reviewed the Audit Committee now includes the Chairs of the Risk and and updated.
The new Audit Committees terms of reference are the Remuneration Committees.
The Committee to is composed available on the Companys website www.
entirely of independent Non-executive Directors and is in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The work of the Committee in 2018, including advising the Board on the half-year results and the Annual Report and Accounts, is described in detail throughout this report.
I would like to thank the other Committee members for their support during the year and I look forward to continuing to chair theCommittee in 2019.
indd 67 08 04 2019 11:50:26 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Audit Committee Report Andy Pomfret and Mel Carvill have appropriate relevant financial reviewing and assessing the internal audit function, including sector experience.
Andy Pomfret is a qualified Chartered oversight of the work of internal audit with steps taken to Accountant and has held the positions of the Finance Director address findings and improve the control environment: and and CEO of a quoted investment management and banking reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys business.
Mel Carvill is also a Chartered Accountant, holds the arrangements for its employees and contractors to raise Advanced Diploma in Corporate Finance and worked across concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting a range of sectors in the European financial services industry.
orother matters in line with whistleblowing procedures.
In addition, Nicola Palios brings expertise from her experience as managing partner of a firm providing legal and alternatives administration.
The Board has determined that the Committee Fair, balanced and understandable assessment as a whole has the competence relevant to the financial services sector in whichSANNE operates and their biographies are set As requested by the Board, the Committee has reviewed the outonpages49 to 51.
Annual Report and Accounts in order to provide advice to the Board, as required by the Code, that the Annual Report and On appointment to the Committee there is an appropriate induction, Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides consisting of a review of the terms of reference, previous Committee the necessary information for Shareholders and other users of papers, information on the Companys financial performance and the Annual Report and Accounts to enable them to assess the operational risks and introductions to the Groups internal and Groups position and performance for 2018.
In order to make this external auditors and key members of staff.
assessment the Committee considered: The timetable of the Committee is linked to the Groups guidance provided to each contributor to the Annual Report reporting cycle, annual audit and financial reporting timetable.
and Accounts: At the invitation of the Committee, the CEO, the CFO, the Chief any changes required as a consequence of regulatory changes: Risk and Compliance Officer and the Internal Audit Director attended meetings.
In addition, the Deloitte audit partner and input provided from pre year-end discussions with the auditors: senior manager attended all meetings held in the year and other input provided pre year-end from senior management and management are requested to attend meetings during the year corporate functions: asrequired.
a review by senior management to ensure consistency and balance: Role and responsibility of the Committee reviews conducted by the external advisers and the auditors The role of the Committee was authorised by the Board and based on consistency and best practice: and itsmain duties in 2018 are listed below: review and consideration by the Committee and final sign-off monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the bythe Board.
Group including its annual and half-year reports, any interim management statements and other formal announcements This process enabled the Committee and then the Board to relating to SANNEs financial performance.
The Committee confirm that the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as reports to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and awhole is fair, balanced and understandable.
judgements made: keeping under review the Companys internal financial control systems that identify, assess, manage and monitor financial risk: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys External Audits, recommending the auditors remuneration and assessing their independence and objectivity along with the effectiveness of the external audit process: 68 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
indd 68 08 04 2019 11:50:26 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Topics discussed by the Committee during the year: The Committees activities, carried out during the year and subsequently, covered, but was not limited to, the following topics: Financial Statements and Reports Internal Audit Full-year results 2017 Internal Audit Plan Half-year results 2018 Internal Audit Reports Impairment review Internal Audit Progress Finance Other Going concern assessment Review of terms of reference Other acquisitions Review of Whistleblowing Policy Earnings before tax Whistleblowing Report Committee evaluation External Audit Regulatory update External Audit Plan and regular reports Review of Non-audit Spend Policy Effectiveness review, audit quality Non-audit spend Significant financial statement issues considered by the Committee Significant financial and reporting How the issue has been addressed issue Revenue recognition, accrued Management maintains key controls over the largely quarterly billing cycles.
The timings of the income and trade receivables billing cycle are arranged to minimise accrued income balances at key reporting dates and thus give greater certainty over income which is still to be converted into cash.
Management assesses the recoverability of all receivables at the year-end and attest to the quality of assets considering past experience of the client, client type and liquidity issues of the client.
We agreed with managements assessment that no additional provision for losses or impairment either to accrued income or trade receivables was needed.
Evaluation of impairment of We considered the results of managements impairment assessment which reviews triggers intangible assets including goodwill for impairment around asset lives, valuation and verification of assets.
We considered the and useful life of intangible assets judgements taken in relation to asset lives and the methodology applied to consider asset verification and we were satisfied that no changes in treatment were needed.
With regards to Goodwill, we consider the judgements taken in relation to short and long-term growth rates, cost basis and discount rates used and we were again satisfied that no changes in treatment were needed.
Share based payments We have reviewed the methodology used for the accounting of share based payments and are comfortable with the assessment by management as to the number of shares expected to vest under the terms of the Performance Share Plan and Restricted Stock Awards.
In doing so we have reviewed and are satisfied with management judgments and expectations around the achievement of performance targets and the leavers assumptions applied.
Accounting for acquisitions We have reviewed the judgements made and used by management in the allocation of the purchase price of the acquisition completed during the year.
We are satisfied that the overall allocations between goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are reasonable and also the estimated useful lives of customer and contract intangibles and attrition rates applied.
indd 69 08 04 2019 11:50:26 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Audit Committee Report External audit Audit and non-audit fees Independence is vital for the integrity of the audit.
The Committee The Committee provides approval for non-audit fee spend in is satisfied that Deloitte are fully independent from the Companys accordance with the FRC Ethical Standard.
Assurance is provided management and have no conflicts of interest.
The review of to ensure that there is no threat to the auditors independence and any non-audit fees ensures that continued independence is objectivity.
The policy governing non-audit spend was reviewed by maintained.
All non-audit spend is reviewed by the Committee the Committee during the year and it applies additional restrictions inaccordance with the SANNE guidelines.
on the use of Deloittes services.
The Committee monitors expenditure on non-audit services and each item requires The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external approvalin advance.
auditor incumbents prior to IPO in 2015 is kept under review.
TheCompany is required to undertake a competitive tender for The Group Audit Fee was 587,000.
The fees paid for non-audit the role of external auditor every ten years.
The ratio of non-audit fee to audit fee is 31%.
During the year the Group incurred non-audit fees During the year, an FRC Audit Quality Review Team AQRT for work on: Solvas Asset Management relating to client services reviewed Deloittes audit of Sanne Group plcs financial statements business systems software: services in relation to FATCA and for the year ended 31 December 2017.
On completion of the CRS: and capital adequacy work in South Africa for IDS Manco.
review I received a copy of the AQRTs report and a summary of Itwas considered by the Committee that there was no perceived the findings, together with the letter from the FRC which were threat to auditor independence as there was no relationship discussed by the Audit Committee in March 2019. to the financial reports and that these items would not impact auditor independence.
The external auditors were considered the Effectiveness of external audit most suitable supplier for these services taking into account the alignment of these services to the work undertaken by external A review was held by the Committee on the effectiveness of audit and Deloittes skill sets.
Consideration was given to: the quality of planning: Internal Audit function communication between the audit team and management: During the year the Group operated its own internal audit function the quality and knowledge of the audit team: supported by a co-source arrangement with PwC to supplement resources and provide capability in specialist areas.
The Internal regulatory insights: Audit Director is invited to attend the Committee.
A new Internal the holding of regular meetings with the Chair of the Committee, Audit Director was appointed in January 2018 to lead the internal CFO and Head of Finance: audit function and the Committee oversaw the selection and transition processes.
the overall performance and the delivery of the audit: The internal audit plan was discussed and approved by the the FRC AQRT letter referred to above: and Committee.
The Committee monitors the internal audit plan to the identification of Prior Period Errors PPEs, which are ensure the audit scope continues to focus on all relevant areas of explained fully in the Chief Financial Officers Review and note activity.
The internal audit reports detailing issues identified and 15 to the accounts.
management actions taken to improve the control environment were presented to the Committee for their consideration.
Following the review, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a competitive tender for the role of external auditor is conducted during 2019.
For technical reasons the Board is Risk management framework & governance recommending the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP at the AGM, Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, SANNE but with the expectation that the tender process will be completed has operated a system of internal controls.
A review of the before the half year results are announced.
effectiveness of SANNEs risk management and internal control systems has been carried out through the work and operations of the Committee and the effectiveness of the operation of the material controls has been reported to the Board.
indd 70 08 04 2019 11:50:26 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Whistleblowing Viability statement During the year the Whistleblowing Policy was reviewed by the SANNE benefits from a high proportion of recurring revenues Committee to ensure that it was effective.
The Group uses fromlong-term customer contracts.
The Group also benefits a system enabling employees who are aware of, or suspect, from attractive levels of growth as well as strong margins and high misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, and abuse of assets or levels of cash conversion.
This is evidenced by past performance.
violations of any Company policy, to report these confidentially.
Takingthis into account as well as the Group having limited The Committee is provided with regular reporting on the operation exposure to long-term financial commitments the Directors have of the Whistleblowing Policy.
determined that the three-year period is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
Committee effectiveness review The key factors that support the Groups future prospects are: The Committee effectiveness review for 2018 was conducted long-term client relationships and engagements with high internally.
The evaluation covered the operation and administration quality, institutional clients: of the Committee.
The Committee was reported as being run diversification of income by investment strategy, asset class professionally and effectively under the Chairmans guidance.
and geography: Theseparation of the Audit and the Risk Committees was considered to be a positive development.
It was agreed that there scale and depth of resources: was a need to improve upon last years process for producing the high quality employee base made up of a significant number Annual Report and Accounts.
of employees either holding or training for professional qualifications: and Priorities for 2019 a strong acquisition track record of buying and integrating The priorities for the Audit Committee over the next 12 months are businesses that build the Groups geographic footprint as follows: andcapabilities.
to monitor the external auditor and to assist with their The assessment of the Groups viability over a three-year period understanding of the business: isundertaken primarily based on its strategic and financial planning processes which are led by the Groups CEO, CFO and Executive to ensure the audit is aligned with the business and its strategic Committee.
The process involves extended sessions for the entire objectives: Board in relation to the strategic and financial planning process.
to review the work undertaken by the internal audit function This process results in detailed financial forecasts being prepared andco-source and outsource providers of internal audit: with the first year forming the Groups operating budget and subsequent years being extrapolated from the first year based to monitor the operation of the Whistleblowing Policy: and on the overall strategic plan.
Performance against the financial to liaise with the Risk Committee to ensure that any linked and strategic plans are assessed on a regular basis by both the matters are fully understood.
Executive Committee and the Board.
This viability assessment takes into account all the committed Going concern expenditure of the Group together with earn-out costs in relation to historic acquisitions.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources for a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing the Annual Report and Accounts and have assessedthat the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate in preparing the financial statements and that there are no material uncertainties to disclose.
After making diligent enquiries, the Directors had a reasonable expectation, based upon the current financial projections and thebank facilities available, that the Group had adequate resources to continue in operation.
Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
indd 71 08 04 2019 11:50:26 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Audit Committee Report Whilst the output of the Groups strategic and financial planningprocess reflects the Directors best estimate of the future prospects of the business, the Group has also assessed the financial impact of a range of alternative scenarios.
Thesescenarios take into account of the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented in the strategic report.
These scenarios represent stresses which include: reduced market and client activity resulting in no growth forthebusiness for a prolonged period of time: the loss of a significant client in a short period of time: a material one-time loss event suffered by the business not covered by insurance: dramatic regulatory change resulting in the winding up of one ofthe Groups service lines or asset classes: adverse movement of FX, driven by the on-going Brexit process or other macro-economic effects: a material acquisition which fails to deliver on its forecast plan contributing less income and requiring significant impairment within a year: and deteriorated trading conditions resulting in a sustained reduction in underlying operating profit margin to 20% andareduction in cash collections by 5%.
The results of the stress testing, including a combination of the individual scenarios, demonstrated that due to the Groups high cash generation and access to additional funds that it would be able to withstand the impact in each case.
Mitigants considered aspart of this stress testing included cost efficiency programmes and dividend reductions.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period.
Andy Pomfret Chairman of the Audit Committee 21 March 2019 72 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
indd 72 08 04 2019 11:50:27 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 A Annual Repor nnual Report and A t and Accoun ccounts f ts for the y or the year ended 2018 ear ended 2018 St Stock code: SNN ock code: SNN sannegr sannegroup oup.. com com 73 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
