Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Composition of the Board The Board sets the Groups strategy for achieving long-term success and is responsible to shareholders.
It is also responsible for the management, governance, controls, risk management, direction and performance of the Group.
The Board as at 28 February 2019, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of the report, consists of the Non-executive Chairman, three Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors.
In accordance with the Code, the Company considers the Non-executive Directors with the exception of the Chairman to be independent.
The Chairman was independent at the time of hisappointment.
Directors Rupert Robson Dean Godwin Nicola Palios Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Rupert Robson was appointed as a NonDean Godwin was appointed as Chief Nicola Palios was appointed as an executive Chairman of Sanne Group plc Executive Officer of Sanne Group plc independent Non-executive Director of on 26 March 2015 and is the Chair of the on26January 2015.
Sanne Group plc on 26 March 2015 and is Nomination and Governance Committee.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
As Chief Executive Officer, Dean is Rupert is also a Non-executive Chairman of responsible for delivering business Nicola is an English Barrister and a Jersey TP ICAP plc and Non-executive Director of strategies that underpin the longAdvocate.
Having joined the Mourant Savills plc.
He has held a number of senior term development of the service and Group in 1988 she became Mourants roles in financial institutions, most recently operations platform.
He has over 15 years youngest ever partner and went on to Non-executive Chairman of Charles Taylor experience in the international financial hold the position of Chief Executive plc and Non-executive Director of London services industry and has extensive senior from 2003 until the sale of the group Metal Exchange Holdings Ltd, Tenet Group management experience having previously companies in 2010.
She now runs her own Ltd and OJSC Nomos Bank.
Prior to that been Managing Director of State Streets consultancy business offering a variety he was Global Head, Financial Institutions Jersey business.
Client service specialisms of services to the private equity industry, Group, Corporate Investment Banking and include capital markets transactions and and holds a number of Non-executive Markets at HSBC and Head of European corporate governance for multinational Directorships in private limited companies Insurance, Investment Banking at Citigroup corporate institutions.
He is a chartered including Chairman of the States of Jersey Global Markets.
secretary and holds an MSc in corporate Development Company.
Dean Godwin will step down from the Board at the end of the Companys AGM on 16 May 2019.
indd 49 08 04 2019 11:50:09 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Composition of the Board Andy Pomfret James Ireland Mel Carvill Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Andy Pomfret was appointed as an James Ireland was appointed as Chief Mel Carvill was appointed as an independent Non-executive Director Financial Officer of Sanne Group plc on independent Non-executive Director of Sanne Group plc on 26 March 2015 1July 2018. ofSanne Group plc on 1 January 2018 and isSenior Independent Director andisChair of the Risk Committee.
As Chief Financial Officer, James is andChairof the Audit Committee.
responsible for managing the financial Mel is also a member of the Board of Most recently, Andy was Rathbones Chief strategy and operations of the Group.
Directors of Home Credit B. V. where he Executive and chaired the Executive is responsible for governance, investor His responsibilities also cover M&A Committee which managed the dayand public relations, and brings significant and the Groups company secretarial to-day affairs of the Group.
He qualified financial services industry experience function.
He has extensive experience as a Chartered Accountant with Peat, having served as a member of the top in financial services organisations and Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG.
Prior management team of Home Credits is a skilled practitioner in the areas of to joining Rathbones in July 1999, he spent parent company, PPF Group, from 2009. business transformation, acquisitions over 13 years with Kleinwort Benson as a andinvestorrelations.
Previously, Mel worked across a range corporate financier, Venture Capitalist and of sectors.
Notably, Mel was at Generali latterly Finance Director of the investment Prior to joining SANNE, James spent over from 1985 until 2009 where he held a management and private banking division.
10 years at Investec plc where he most number of senior positions including Andy is also a Non-executive Director of recently lead the investment banking Headof Western Europe, Americas ICG Enterprise Trust PLC, Aberdeen New divisions Support Services Sector team.
and the Middle East, Head of M&A and Thai Investment Trust Plc, Sabre Insurance Before Investec, James worked within the Head ofInternational Regulatory Affairs, Group plc and Non-executive Chairman of corporate tax division at Grant Thornton Head ofRisk Management and Head of Miton UK MicroCap Trust plc.
and also spent time mobilised with the Corporate Finance.
indd 50 08 04 2019 11:50:11 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Yves Stein Julia Chapman Martin Schnaier Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Designate Yves Stein was appointed as an Julia Chapman was appointed as an Martin Schnaier was appointed as an independent Non-executive Director independent Non-executive Director Executive Director on 23 January 2019 and ofSanne Group plc on 1 October 2018. ofSanne Group plc on 1 July 2018. will take over the role of Chief Executive Officer at the end of the Companys AGM Yves is a Luxembourg national with more Julia is a solicitor qualified in England on 16 May 2019. than 30 years of experience in the banking & Wales and Jersey with over 25 years industry through various senior positions experience in the investment fund and Martin has played a key role in the growth in Corporate Banking, Fund Services and capital markets sector.
Having trained of SANNE since joining in 2011, having Wealth Management.
with Simmons & Simmons in London, she previously held a number of senior moved to Jersey to work for Mourant du positions within the organisation, including He most recently served as Group Chief Feu & Jeune now Mourant Ozannes.
Chief Commercial Officer and Managing Executive of KBL European Private Bankers She became a partner in 1999 and was Director of SANNEs Alternative Assets headquartered in Luxembourg.
Prior to responsible for legal, risk and compliance business across EMEA, and has a deep that he was CEO of Union Bancaire Prive oversight of third party administration understanding and experience of SANNEs Europe SA and CEO Wealth Management services to alternative investment funds.
of BNP Paribas in Switzerland.
He serves also a Non-executive Director of Merck Up until 2012, Julia also worked at State Martin has 20 years experience working Finck Privatbankiers in Germany and Street where she was responsible for the in the finance industry, with senior roles at ofEdmond fide Rothschild Europe SA internal legal affairs and governance in Babson Capital now Barings and Advent inLuxembourg.
their European alternative investment Venture Partners prior to joining SANNE, services division.
She left State Street to and qualified as a Chartered Accountant focus on the provision of independent ICAEW with KPMG.
directorship and governance services to a small number of alternative investment fund vehicles.
Julia serves on the board of three other main market listed companies, Henderson Far East Income Limited, GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited and BH Global Limited.
