Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Group Executive Board JAMES RAYMOND SPARROW LEE Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive UK & EMEA Hong Kong, Macau and Greater China Appointment to the Group Executive Board Appointment to the James was appointed to the Group Group Executive Board Executive Board on 1 May 2018.
Raymond was appointed to the Group Executive Board in January 2011.
Background and relevant experience Background and He became Chief Executive of Savills UK relevant experience & EMEA in September 2018, having He joined Savills in 1989.
In 2003, previously been Chief Executive of Savills MARK Raymond became the Managing UK since 1 May 2018.
Prior to this James RIDLEY Director in Hong Kong and Macau and held the position of Head of Professional in 2010 was appointed CEO of Greater Services, Savills UK and was a member Group Chief Executive China.
Raymond is a Fellow Member of of the Savills UK Executive Board since effective 1 January 2019 the Hong Kong Institute of Directors 2013 when it was established.
Before that and holds an honorary fellowship at the Deputy Group Chief Executive James was a member of the Executive Quangxi Academy of Social Science.
Board of Savills Commercial, having from 1 May 2018 to 31 December 2018 Raymond is also an Honorary Doctor of joined Savills in 1988.
Management at Lincoln University and See Board of Directors on pages holds a Fellowship at the Asian College 42 and 45 for full biography.
He became a fellow member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS in 2016.
CHRIS LEE SIMON Group Legal Director SHAW and Company Secretary Appointment to the Group Chief Financial Officer Group Executive Board See Board of Directors on pages Chris joined Savills in June 2008 and 42 and 45 for full biography.
was appointed to the Group Executive Board in August 2008.
He has ultimate responsibility for legal, regulatory and compliance issues globally.
Background and relevant experience He held equivalent roles with Alfred McAlpine plc, Courts plc and Scholl plc between 1997 and 2008, prior to which he was Deputy Group Secretary of Delta plc from 1990 to 1997.
46 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements SIMON MITCHELL MITCHELL HOPE STEIR RUDIN Global Head of Chairman and alternate to Mitchell Steir Capital Markets CEO Savills North America President Savills North America Appointment to the Appointment to the Appointment to the Group Executive Board Group Executive Board Group Executive Board Simon was appointed to the Group Mitch was appointed to the Group Mitch was appointed as an alternate to Executive Board when it was formed Executive Board when Studley, Inc. Mitch Steir on the Group Executive in February 2008. joined Savills in May 2014.
Board with effect from 1 January 2019.
Background and Background and Background and relevant experience relevant experience relevant experience He joined Savills in September 1986 and He joined Studley, Inc. in 1988 after He joined Savills Studley, Inc. in he is Head of our Global Capital Markets beginning his commercial real estate October 2018 and became president business.
He is also a member of the career at Huberth & Peters in New York.
Board of the Charities Property Fund, Chairman of Tilstone LLP, co-founder Other appointments Other appointments and non-executive of the Warehouse Mitch serves on the Boards of The Mitch is on the boards of the NYC REIT, Chair of Racing Homes and Museum of the City of New York, Police Foundation, NYU Schack Trustee of Racing Welfare.
the Film Society of Lincoln Center, Institute, Police Athletic League and St.
The Realty Foundation of New York, Francis Friends of the Poor.
He is also a The Avenue of Americas Association, Governor of the Urban Land Institute.
The Mount Sinai Hospital Surgery advisory board and the Citizens Budget Commission.
CHRISTIAN MANCINI Chief Executive Officer Asia Pacific ex-Greater China Appointment to the Group Executive Board Christian was appointed to the Group Executive Board on 1 July 2016.
Background and relevant experience Christian was made CEO of Savills Japan in 2007 and appointed CEO of Savills Northeast Asia in 2012.
