Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Board of Directors Key to NICHOLAS MARK Committees FERGUSON CBE RIDLEY Chairman of Savills plc and Group Chief Executive Chairman of the Nomination with effect from 1 January 2019 Audit Committee & Governance Committee Remuneration Deputy Group Chief Executive Committee from 1 May 2018 to 31 December 2018 Nomination & Governance Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Committee Nicholas was appointed to Mark joined Savills in 1996 the Board as a Nonand was appointed to the Executive Director on 26 Board on 1 May 2018.
January 2016 and became Background and Chairman in May 2016. relevant experience Background and He was Chairman of Savills relevant experience Commercial from May 2008, Nicholas has held a number then Chief Executive Officer of leadership roles in the of Savills UK from 2013 and private equity and additionally of Savills Europe investment sectors.
He was from 2014 until he was co-founder of Schroder appointed as Deputy Group Ventures the private equity Chief Executive on 1 May group which later became 2018.
As of 1 January 2019, Permira of which he was when Jeremy Helsby retired Chairman from 1984 to 2001. from the Board, Mark was He later served as Chairman appointed as Group Chief of SVG Capital plc, a publicly Executive Officer.
quoted private equity group, Other appointments from April 2005 to November 2012.
Other appointments Committee Membership Nicholas was Chairman of Sky Plc from April 2012 to May 2016, having been appointed to the board as a Non-Executive Director in June 2004 and having previously served as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman of African Logistical Properties: and Chairman and founder of The Kilfinan Group, which provides mentoring by Chairmen and CEOs to heads of charities.
Committee Membership 42 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements MARK SIMON CHARLES RIDLEY SHAW MCVEIGH Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2019 Deputy Group Chief Executive from 1 May 2018 to 31 December 2018 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Simon joined Savills as Charles was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Group Chief Financial Director on 1 August 2000.
Background and Background and relevant experience relevant experience Formerly, he was CoSimon is a Chartered Chairman of Citigroups Accountant.
He was European Investment Bank formerly Chief Financial and served on the Boards of Officer of Gyrus Group PLC, Witan Investment Company a position he held for five plc, Clearstream, the London years until its sale to the Stock Exchange, LIFFE, Olympus Corporation.
British American Business Simon was Chief Operating Inc. and Rubicon Fund Officer of Profile Management and was a Therapeutics plc for five member of both the years and also worked as a Development Board and corporate financier, latterly Advisory Council of the at Hambros Bank Limited.
Princes Trust, he was also a Other appointments Non-Executive Director of Petropavlovsk plc until mid Non-Executive Chairman of 2015 and is a former Board Synairgen plc.
He Committee Membership was appointed by the Bank of England to serve on the None.
City Capital Markets Committee and the Legal Risk Review Committee and was a member of the Fulbright Commission.
Other appointments A Senior Advisor to the private bank of Citigroup, Charles is also a Trustee of JEREMY the Landmark Trust.
HELSBY Committee Membership Group Chief Executive None.
to 31 December 2018 43 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Board of Directors continued Key to TIM LIZ Committees FRESHWATER HEWITT Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Nomination & Governance Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Committee Tim was appointed to the Liz was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2012.
Background and Background and relevant experience relevant experience Tim is a Director of Goldman Liz previously held senior Sachs Asia Bank Limited and executive roles at Smith & was formerly Chairman of Nephew plc and 3i Group plc Corporate Finance for having spent her early career Goldman Sachs Asia.
with Gartmore, CVC and 3i as Before joining Goldman a private equity investor.
She Sachs, Tim worked at qualified as a Chartered Jardine Fleming, becoming Accountant with Arthur Group Chairman in 1999, and Andersen.
was a partner at Slaughter Other appointments and May from 1975 to 1996.
Tim has been resident in Non-Executive Director of Hong Kong for over 30 of Melrose Industries PLC and the last 40 years.
Novo Nordisk A S. External member of the House of Other appointments Lords Commission.
Non-Executive Director of Committee Membership Swire Pacific Limited, Corney & Barrow Group Limited and Chelsfield Asia Limited.
Tim is a former Director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and a former member of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council and the Financial Services Development Council.
Committee Membership 44 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Sylvie Humbert RUPERT STACEY FLORENCE ROBSON CARTWRIGHT TONDU-MLIQUE Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Rupert was appointed to the Stacey was appointed to the Florence was appointed to Board as a Non-Executive Board as a Non-Executive the Board as a NonDirector on 23 June 2015.
Background and Background and Background and relevant experience relevant experience relevant experience Rupert has held a number of Stacey most recently served Florence is currently Chief senior roles in financial as Chief Executive and then Executive Officer of Zurich institutions, most recently Deputy Chairman of Harvey France, and a member of Chairman of Charles Taylor Nichols Group until 2018, and Zurichs EMEA and Global plc and EMF Capital Partners prior to that was Executive Commercial Insurance and Non-Executive Director Vice President and CFO of Leadership Teams.
She was of London Metal Exchange Burberry Group plc.
She previously Chief Operating Holdings Limited, Tenet previously served as CFO of Officer of Hiscox Europe, Group Limited and OJSC Egg plc and spent her early prior to which she held senior Nomos Bank.
Prior to that he career in a number of finance executive roles at AXA Real was Global Head, Financial roles at Granada Group PLC.
Estate and AXA Investment Institutions Group, Corporate She was a Non-Executive Managers.
She spent her Investment Banking and Director at GlaxoSmithKline early career at McKinsey Markets at HSBC and Head PLC from 2011 to 2016.
of European Insurance, qualified as a Chartered Investment Banking at Accountant with Price Other appointments Citigroup Global Markets.
Non-Executive Director of Other appointments Other appointments the French-American Foundation.
Chairman of TP ICAP plc and Senior Independent NonSanne Group plc.
Executive Director of the Committee Membership English Football Association.
