Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee report Liz Hewitt Chair of the Audit Committee In 2018, the Committee focused on the effectiveness of the Groups internal As Chair of the controls and reviewed the principal risks, to ensure the alignment of these with the Companys strategic objectives.
It monitored the effectiveness of the Audit Committee control environment through the review of reports from Internal Audit, management and the External Auditor and ensured the quality of the the Committee, Companys financial reporting by reviewing the 2018 Half Year Financial Statements and 2018 Report and Accounts.
The Committee considered, with I am pleased to management and the External Auditor, the adoption of the new accounting standards IFRS 9 Financial Statements, IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with present the Audit customers effective for the 2018 financial year and IFRS 16 Leases in relation to its expected impact in future effective for 2019 financial year and Committees report approved the disclosures of these accounting policies and practices in the notes to the Financial Statements.
for the financial The Committee also considered the processes supporting the assessment of the Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity in support of the viability year ended statement.
Looking ahead, the Committee will continue to monitor changes in regulation and continue to focus on the audit, assurance and risk processes 31 December 2018. within the Principal Businesses.
The Committee considered its compliance with the Code and the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.
The Committee believes that it has addressed both the spirit and the requirements of both.
The members of the Committee need to have the right balance of skills and experience to deliver its responsibilities.
During the year, the Board carried out an The aim of this report is to explain the work internally facilitated evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees.
The undertaken by the Committee during the year and Board is satisfied that the Committee members possess relevant experience and how it has met the disclosure requirements as set appropriate levels of independence and that its members have the depth of out in the 2016 Corporate Governance Code the financial and commercial experience across various industries which is essential Code.
The key matters considered in the year are for the effective working of the Committee.
The report provides an overview of the significant issues that the Audit At the request of the Board, the Committee has reviewed the content of this Committee assessed and details the Committees years Annual Report and Accounts and has advised the Board that, in its major considerations and activities during the 2018 opinion, the Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and financial year in ensuring that the Companys it provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Groups governance processes remain appropriate, robust, position, performance, business model and strategy.
of a high standard and are rigorously applied.
I will be retiring from the Board and Chair of the Audit Committee at the next The Committee has a key role in ensuring the AGM on 8 May 2019.
I would like to thank my fellow Audit Committee integrity of the Groups Financial Statements, members for their support during my time chairing the Committee.
I am internal controls and the effectiveness of its risk delighted to confirm that Stacey Cartwright, who was appointed to the Board management processes.
The Committee also has a on 1 October 2018, will, subject to her re-election by Shareholders at the next role in representing the interests of Shareholders AGM, be appointed Audit Committee Chair with effect from 8 May 2019. by monitoring the activities and conduct of management and the auditors.
The Committee noted the unqualified opinion from the External Auditor on the 2018 Annual Report.
Liz Hewitt Chair of the Audit Committee 57 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee report continued Role of the Committee Composition Engagement The Committee is authorised to investigate The Committee is a fundamental element The Chair of the Committee meets any matter within its Terms of Reference of the Companys governance framework.
informally and is in regular contact with a copy of which can be found in the The Committee is chaired by Liz Hewitt.
the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group governance section of the Companys Five Independent Non-Executive Directors, Director of Risk Assurance and the Group website at http: ir.
com companyLiz Hewitt, Tim Freshwater Rupert Robson, Legal Director & Company Secretary and information corporate-governance.
The Stacey Cartwright and Florence Tonduprior to each Committee meeting, meets Terms of Reference were reviewed and Mlique are members of the Committee.
with each of them and the External updated in June 2017.
Members of the Committee are appointed The Committee has access to the services by the Board following recommendations In addition to its members, a standing of the Group Legal Director & Company by the Nomination & Governance invitation has been extended by the Secretary and, where necessary, the Committee and membership is reviewed Committee to the Non-Executive Chairman authority to obtain external legal or other annually by the Nomination & Governance and Group Chief Executive Officer to independent professional advice to fulfil Committee as part of the annual Board attend the Committees meetings.
Stacey Cartwright Group Chief Financial Officer, Group and Florence Tondu-Mlique were Financial Controller, Group Director of Risk The Committees key role is to assist the appointed as members of the Committee & Assurance, Group Legal Director & Board in discharging its duties and on 1 October 2018.
Company Secretary and the External responsibilities for financial reporting, Auditor attend each of the Committees internal control, the effectiveness of the risk As at 31 December 2018 and up to the meetings.
Other senior executives from management process and in making date of this report, the Committee across the Group are invited to present recommendations to the Board on the comprised entirely Independent Nonreports to assist the Committee in appointment of the External Auditor.
The Committee discharging its duties.
members collectively have a broad range The Committee is responsible for the scope of financial and commercial experiences At least once a year, the Committee meets and results of the External Audit work, its that enables them to provide oversight of with the External Auditor and the Group cost effectiveness and for ensuring the both financial and risk matters, and to Director of Risk & Assurance without independence and objectivity of the advise the Board accordingly.
The Board considers that Liz Hewitt, as The Chair of the Committee also attends The Committee is also responsible for Chair of the Committee, possesses recent the AGM to respond to shareholder reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing and relevant financial experience and that questions on its activities.
arrangements as they relate to matters of all Committee members have relevant financial integrity, including ensuring that financial experience as required by the appropriate arrangements are in place for Code.
Biographical details of the employees to be able to raise, in Committee members are shown on confidence, matters of alleged financial pages 42 and 45. improprieties and for ensuring that appropriate follow-up actions are taken.
The Company provides an induction programme for new Committee members which includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics and risks, and meetings with senior management.
Committee members are expected to have an understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting and internal controls, risk management, and Internal Audit and External Audit roles and responsibilities.
The Committee met four times during the year and reports to the Board after each Committee meeting.
Attendance at meetings during 2018 is shown in the table below: Meetings % of eligible Committee Member Meetings eligible meetings member since attended to attend attended Liz Hewitt June 2014 4 4 100% Tim Freshwater January 2012 4 4 100% Rupert Robson June 2015 4 4 100% Stacey Cartwright October 2018 1 1 100% Florence Tondu-Mlique October 2018 1 1 100% 58 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Activities of the Committee To enable the Committee to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively it works to a structured programme of activities and meetings aligned with the annual financial reporting cycle.
This includes items that the Committee considers regularly in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
In addition to its core work, the Committee undertakes additional work in response to the evolving audit and external reporting landscape.
The Committee relies on information and support from management across the business, receiving reports and presentations from business management, the Heads of Key Group functions, Internal Audit and the External Auditor, which it challenges as appropriate.
Following each meeting, the Chair of the Committee reports on the main discussion points and any actions arising from these to the Board.
Responsibilities How the Committee discharged its responsibilities Mar June Aug Dec Financial Reviewed and discussed the key accounting considerations and judgements X Reporting reflected in the Groups results for the half year and full year Reviewed and discussed the key accounting considerations and judgements X reflected in the Groups results Reviewed going concern status and considered whether any asset X X impairments were required Reviewed the viability statement and considered the processes supporting X X the assessment of the longer-term solvency and liquidity External Agreed the External Audit strategy and scope X Audit Considered and, where appropriate, approved the instruction of the Groups X External Auditor on non-audit assignments Reviewed and considered the External Auditor Report, including the External X X Auditor observations on the Groups internal control environment Discussed the External Auditor performance X Met with the External Auditor without management present to discuss their X X remit and any concerns Discussed and agreed the External Auditor remuneration in respect of audit X services provided Assessed the External Auditors independence and recommended their X reappointment to the Board Compliance, Reviewed the Groups arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise X Whistleblowing concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or and Fraud other matters.
The Committee also considers any reports made under these arrangements Internal Audit Considered and approved the remit of the Internal Audit function and the X Internal Audit plan Received and considered reports from the Groups Internal Audit team X X covering various aspects of the Groups operations, controls and processes and monitored the progress made by management in addressing recommendations arising out of these reports Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit X function in the context of the Groups overall risk management arrangements Met with the Group Director of Risk & Assurance privately to discuss his remit X and any concerns Internal Controls Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system and X and Risk internal controls in place to manage the Groups principal risks Management Reviewed and considered the Groups risk register X X Systems Reviewed risk management arrangements for the Groups regional businesses X X by receiving presentations from the Chief Operating Financial Officers of the Principal Businesses Reviewed the Committees own performance, composition and Terms X of Reference, and recommended any changes the Committee considers necessary for Board approval 59 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee report continued Activities of the Committee continued During the year, in addition to its established review processes, the Committee considered and reviewed a number of other areas.
These included updates on the risk and internal control environments within the Groups Asia Pacific and EMEA businesses as well as Savills Investment Management.
In addition, with the increasing pace of technological change, and for the implementation of GDPR, the Committee continued to focus on the Groups IT strategy, with particular focus on cyber security and business continuity.
The Committee specifically considered the processes and assessment of the Groups prospects and viability made by management to support the viability statement which can be found at page 29.
The Committees review included consideration of the time period adopted, the processes supporting the assessment of the Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity which support the viability statement.
The Committee considered and provided input into the determination of which of the Groups principal risks might have an impact on the Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity.
It also reviewed the results of managements scenario modelling, including severe downside modelling, and the stress testing of those financial models supporting the viability analysis and challenged management as to the appropriateness of the assumptions made.
The Committee received reports from management relating to the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers effective for the 2018 financial year and IFRS 16 Leases in relation to its expected impact in future effective for 2019 financial year.
Following discussions with management and the External Auditors, the Committee approved the disclosures of these accounting policies and practices which are set out in note 2.26 to the Financial Statements on pages 112 114.
Significant Judgements As part of its monitoring of the integrity of the Financial Statements, the Committee considers the appropriateness of the accounting policies proposed for adoption and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
To support its decisionmaking, the Committee seeks support from the External Auditor in these areas.
This section outlines the main areas of judgement that have been considered by the Committee and ensure that appropriate rigour has been applied.
The key reporting judgements considered by the Committee and discussed with the External Auditor during the year were: Matter considered Action Goodwill impairment The Committee considered managements approach in relation to the carrying value of the Groups assessment businesses, including goodwill.
The Committee reviewed and considered the detailed analysis of the key inputs to forecast future cash flows and the process by which they were drawn up.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the assumptions used and reviewed the impact of sensitivity analysis.
The Committee also considered if there were any reasonably possible changes in assumptions that would result in a material impairment and therefore require further disclosure in the financial statements.
The Committee also considered a report from the External Auditor setting out its analysis and conclusions in this area.
The Committee was satisfied with the assumptions and judgements applied by Management.
Risk of fraud in revenue The Committee considered the presumed risk of fraud as defined by the International recognition Accounting Standards.
The Committee discussed and actively challenged managements conclusions in respect of revenue recognition policies, satisfying itself that the approach applied to determine revenue recognised in FY18 was appropriate, consistent across the Group and in line with the Groups accounting policies.
The Committee also received and discussed the External Auditor reports setting out its work, testing and conclusions on this area.
The Committee, having actively challenged and considered both managements judgements and the External Auditors conclusions, agreed that there were no material issues in this area and that the approach taken was appropriate.
Recoverability of trade The Committee considered and challenged, with the support of the External Auditor, the receivables judgements regarding the recoverability of trade receivables made.
Following its review, the Committee was satisfied that the judgements taken by management were reasonable and supported by appropriate evidence in relation to the specific receivables.
Provisions for litigation The Committee received regular updates on new and existing claims being made against the Group and the extent to which these had been provided for.
The Committee focussed its review on the provisions held in relation to significant legal matters and assessed the appropriateness of those provisions as at 31 December 2018.
As part of this review, the Committee took into account the Groups insurance cover and the advice received from external counsel to ensure that the appropriate provisions had been made.
The Committee also discussed the matter with the External Auditor, who had determined, as part of their audit, that Management had made reasonable judgements in their assessment process for determining the level of provisions held.
The Committee concluded that the provisions Management had made were appropriate.
60 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements In performing its review of effectiveness, staff, its expertise, resources and the Internal Audit the Committee reviewed and assessed the independence of the audit.
The During 2018, Internal Audit services were following reports and activities: Committee considered the External Audit delivered by the Groups Director of plan for the year and assessed how the Internal Audit with support in delivery Internal Audit reports on the review of External Auditor had performed.
The Boards responsibility for the controls across the Group and its deciding whether to recommend the internal control and risk is detailed on monitoring of management actions reappointment of PwC, the Committee page 52 and is incorporated into this arising from these reviews considered the robustness of their report by reference.
challenge and findings on areas which Managements own assessment of risk require judgement, the strength and depth The Committee approved the annual and the performance of the system of of the lead partners and feedback from Group audit plan, and received progress risk management and internal control the Groups management.
against that plan during the year.
The during 2018 Committee ensured that Internal Audit Reports from the Group Director of Risk The Committee formally concluded the was appropriately resourced with the & Assurance including reports on assessment of the performance of the skills and experience relevant to the Group-wide risk assessment activity and External Auditor at the December operations of the Group and that annual self-assessment findings Committee meeting and made a information was made available to it to corresponding recommendation on the Reports from the External Auditor on enable it to fulfil its mandate to the appointment of PwC for the forthcoming any issues identified during the course appropriate professional standards.
financial year to the Board.
Shareholders of their work formally appoint the External Auditor at The Committee reviewed Internal Audit The Committee and the Board considered the AGM in May.
There were no significant reports on a regular basis and the Group that the information received was sufficient findings arising from the evaluation this Director of Risk & Assurance and the Group to enable a review of the effectiveness of year and the Committee concluded that Director of Internal Audit attended the Groups internal controls in accordance both the audit and the audit process were meetings and presented to the Committee.
with the FRCs Guidance on Risk effective.
The Committee considered the The Committee monitors the status of Management, Internal Control and Related appropriateness of the re-appointment of Internal Audit recommendations and Financial and Business Reporting.
PwC as the Groups External Auditor and it managements responsiveness to their was satisfied that it should recommend to implementation and challenge both External Audit the Board their re-appointment as the Internal Audit and management where Groups External Auditor.
appropriate to provide assurance that the The Committee has primary responsibility control environment is robust and effective.
for overseeing the relationship with the In light of the assessment and review External Auditor, including assessing the undertaken during the year, the Board In assessing the performance of Internal External Auditors performance, endorsed the Committees Audit, the Committee considered and independence and effectiveness, recommendation that PwC be remonitored its effectiveness in the context recommending the appointment, appointed as the External Auditor for a of the Companys risk management system reappointment or removal of the External further year and that their re-appointment and took into account managements Auditor, and negotiating and agreeing the would be put to the Shareholders at the assessment of and responsiveness to external audit fees.
the Internal Auditors findings and private meetings with the External Auditor recommendations and reports from the at the March and August Committee PwC has been the Companys Auditor External Auditor on any issues identified meetings to provide additional opportunity since 2001, following a tender for the during the course of their work.
for open dialogue and feedback to from External Audit.
The Committee continues the Committee and the External Auditor to review the auditor appointment and the Internal Control and Risk without management being present.
The need to tender the audit, ensuring Management chair of the Committee also meets with the compliance with the Code.
The Committee The Committee, on behalf of the Board, external lead audit partner outside the has considered the timing of a potential undertook a robust review of the formal Committee process throughout External Audit tender timetable and effectiveness of the system of risk the year.
processes and concluded that the tender management and internal control.
process should commence in 2019 with the The Committee monitored the appointment to be effective at the end of performance of the External Auditor during the next lead audit partner term at 31 the year and carried out a review of the December 2020.
The Committee is effectiveness of the External Audit process satisfied that the proposed retender of and considered the reappointment of audit services was in the best interests of  LLP PwC and the Shareholders.
the appropriateness of its fees.
The review covers a broad range of matters including amongst other matters, the quality of 61 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Audit Committee report continued During the year, PwC was paid 2.0m for External Audit continued audit services and 1.0m for non-audit An important aspect of managing the services, principally for financial due External Auditor relationship, and of diligence relating to transactions.
Details of the annual effectiveness review, is the fees paid to the External Auditor can ensuring that there are adequate be found in note 8.2 to the Financial safeguards to protect auditor objectivity Statements on page 124.
In conducting its financial year ended 31 December 2018, annual assessment, the Committee contracts for non-audit services in excess reviews the External Auditors own policies of 0.1m require Committee approval and and procedures for safeguarding its the Chair of the Audit Committee is objectivity and independence.
As one of notified of new instructions for the delivery the ways in which it seeks to protect the of non-audit services below this level.
independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the Committee has a The Committee was satisfied that in view of policy governing the engagement of the their knowledge and experience of the external auditors to provide non-audit Company, that when PwC was used, it was services and its assessment of PwCs best placed to provide such non-audit independence is underpinned by this services and that their objectivity and policy.
In accordance with the Groups independence had not been impaired by policy in place to 31 December 2018, the reason of this further work.
In line with the following non-audit services were not Companys policy for the financial year provided by the External Auditor: ending 31 December 2018 on the provision of non-audit work, the Committee Bookkeeping or other services related reviewed the provision of non-audit work to the accounting records or Financial provided by the External Auditor on a Statements case-by-case basis.
The Committee was Taxation services except for fide minimis satisfied that the overall levels of audit amounts, outside of Europe and outside related and non-audit fees were not the scope of the Group audit material relative to the income of the External Auditor firm as a whole.
Financial information systems design and implementation The restrictions FRCs Revised Ethical Internal Audit outsourcing services Standard for Auditors June 2016 on the supply of non-audit services that the Management functions or human External Auditor can provide, including the resources advice cap on the amount of non-audit fees that Advising on senior executive including can be billed and a list of prohibited Executive Director remuneration services, were effective for the Group from 1 January 2017.
As part of the Groups To further safeguard the independence of policy all non-audit instructions with the the Companys External Auditor and the External Auditor must be approved by integrity of the audit process, recruitment either the Group Chief Financial Officer or of senior employees from the External the Group Financial Controller and Auditor is not allowed for an appropriate management must seek approval from the period after they cease to provide services Committee for all non-audit contracts in to the Company.
The Groups policy also requires that non-audit fees must not exceed 70% of the average External Audit fees billed over the previous three years.
The Directors confirm that, insofar as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which PwC is unaware and each Director has taken the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that PwC is aware of that information.
