Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Effectiveness Nomination & Governance Committee Report The Nomination & Governance Committee Committee has a key role to play in ensuring that the Board and its principal Committees have the right mix of skills, experience and diversity to deliver Group strategy and to create value.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and independence to be able to function effectively.
Committee Members Key Objectives Key Responsibilities Nicholas Ferguson Chair The primary objectives of the Responsible for size, structure and composition of the Board Committee are: Stacey Cartwright Reviewing and progressing appointments to the Board To review the size and Tim Freshwater Responsible for succession planning to ensure that the Board composition of the Board is refreshed progressively such that the balance of skills and and its key Committees Liz Hewitt experience available to the Board remains appropriate to the and to plan for the Boards needs of the business Rupert Robson progressive refreshing, with regard to balance and Makes recommendations to the Board on the membership of Florence Tondu-Mlique structure the principal Committees of the Board Jeremy Helsby Executive To monitor of the To keep under review the Companys compliance with Director retired effective Companys compliance with applicable Codes and other requirements of Corporate 31 December 2018 applicable codes and other Governance Mark Ridley Executive requirements of Corporate More detailed information on the role and responsibilities of Director with effect from Governance including the Committee can be found in the Committees Terms of 1 May 2018. the new 2018 Corporate Reference which can be accessed on the Companys website at Governance Code s ave in circumstances where the www.
Changes to the Board and Committees matters before the Board and its Committees.
The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors bring During the year to 31 December 2018 and since the year end, there considerable expertise, strong independent oversight and are were the following changes to the Board: Independent Non-Executive Directors, being independent of Mark Ridley joined the Board as Deputy Group Chief Executive management and having no business or other relationship which on 1 May 2018, and was appointed Group Chief Executive could interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
Officer on 1 January 2019 In particular, notwithstanding his long service on the Board, the Board continues to consider that Charles McVeigh remains Jeremy Helsby retired from the Board as Group Chief Executive entirely independent in character and judgement.
His experience Officer on 31 December 2018 provides valuable insight, knowledge and continuity.
Stacey Cartwright was appointed Non-Executive Director and Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination & Committee meetings Governance Committees on 1 October 2018 The Committee met twice during 2018 and each meeting had full attendance.
Members of the Committee also attend the Florence Tondu-Mlique was appointed Non-Executive Companys AGM at which there is an opportunity to meet with Director and Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Shareholders.
Any other Director, the Group Legal Director & Nomination & Governance Committees on 1 October 2018 Company Secretary or an external advisor may be invited by Liz Hewitt and Charles McVeigh will retire from the Board at the the Committee to attend the meetings from time to time, conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
Assessment of the Independence of Non-Executive Directors Board composition and balance The Chairman is committed to ensuring the Board comprises a The Committee has sought to maintain a balance of skills majority of independent Non-Executive Directors who objectively and experience on the Board and its Committees.
We believe challenge management, balanced against the need to ensure the Boards composition gives us the necessary balance of continuity in the Board.
On an annual basis, the Board reviews the diversity, skills experience, independence and knowledge independence of its Non-Executive Directors, particularly those to ensure we continue to run the business effectively and with long service.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for deliver sustainable growth.
bringing independent and objective judgement and scrutiny to 53 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Effectiveness continued Nomination & Governance Committee Report continued Board composition and balance continued Balance of the Board during the year Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Gender 1 1 3 3 1 4 6 5 Executive 0 4 years Male Non-Executive 5 9 years Female Chairman 10 years At all times during the year at least half of the Board members, excluding the Chairman, were Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees Agenda this year The Committee has standing items that it considers regularly under its Terms of Reference: for example, the Committee considered and approved Directors potential conflicts of interest and reviewed its own Terms of Reference which are reviewed at least annually or as required, eg to reflect changes to the Code or as a result of changes in regulations or best practice.
Specifically during the year, the Committee: Oversaw Mark Ridleys succession as Group CEO effective 1 January 2019 Considered Board succession planning including the tenure, mix and diversity of skills and experience of the existing Board Members in the context of the Groups strategy Considered the proposed reappointment of the Non-Executive Directors, before making a recommendation to the Board that each Non-Executive be proposed to shareholders for re-election at the 2019 AGM Considered and authorised the Directors actual and potential conflict of interests Led the process which led to the appointments of Stacey Cartwright and Florence Tondu-Mlique to the Board Monitored progress in the search for a new CEO of Savills Investment Management In consultation with the Chairmen of the Board Committees, the Nomination & Governance Committee will continue to monitor the needs of the Board and its Committees in the context of the delivery of the Groups strategy, with the aim of ensuring that the Groups succession planning policy evolves such that there is an identifiable supply of talent and experience available to the Board and its Committees from which to select successors.
Recruitment of two new NEDs The Board recognises the benefit of progressively refreshing its membership and therefore commenced the search for two additional independent Non-Executive Directors in 2018.
The Committee led the process which led to the appointments of Stacey Cartwright and Florence Tondu-Mlique to the Board.
In this search the Board was conscious of its objective of further strengthening diversity at Board level.
The Committee assessed the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity of the Board and, in view of this assessment, a description of the role and competencies needed was agreed, with a view to appointing the best qualified individuals for the role.
Odgers Berndtson was selected to lead the search due to its specialist knowledge of recruiting at Board level.
Odgers Berndtson has no other connection with the Group and is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct of Executive Search Firms.
Odgers Berndtson provided a long list of potential candidates and first stage interviews were led by the Chair of the Committee.
In making the recommendation to the Board on the proposed appointments, the Nomination & Governance Committee specifically considered the expected time commitment of the proposed Non-Executive Directors and other commitments they already had.
A final shortlist of candidates was selected for final stage interviews with the Committee members, including the Group CEO and Deputy Group CEO.
The Committee was unanimous in their recommendation to the Board that Stacey Cartwright and Florence Tondu-Mlique be appointed as additional independent Non-Executive Directors, and was delighted to welcome Stacey and Florence to the Board on 1 October 2018.
Details of the different stages of the appointment process that the Committee followed in relation to the appointment process of Stacey Cartwright and Florence Tondu-Mlique as below: Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Engage with Odgers Shortlisting of Interview process with Recommendation to Appointment terms Berndtson and provide candidates by the Committee Members the Board of the chosen drafted and agreed them with a search Committee and the Group CEO and candidates specification Deputy CEO Stacey Cartwrights biography Florence Tondu-Mliques biography See page 45 See page 45 54 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Savills Investment Management CEO recruitment During 2018, the Committee confirmed the process to identify and appoint a new Group Chief Executive Officer of Savills Investment Management.
This process included internal and external candidates.
Korn Ferry was selected as executive search providers.
Korn Ferry has no other connection with the Group and is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct of Executive Search Firms.
Succession planning We recognise the importance of planning for the future and of having succession plans in place which introduce new skills and perspectives to the Board and which complement the experience of the existing Board members.
The Committee continues to keep the Boards composition under review and considers how that composition might be enhanced to ensure that the Board continues to best meet the needs of the Company and its Shareholders.
No Director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own succession The Committee also monitors the development of the executive team below the Board to ensure that there is a diverse supply of senior executives and potential future Board members with appropriate skills and experience.
The biographies of the Board members appear on pages 42 and 45.
Diversity Policy We continue to make good progress in terms of diversity.
We have noted the recommendation in the Hampton Alexander Review published in 2016 that a target of 33% female Board representation be achieved by FTSE 350 companies by 2020, and also the recommendations of the Parker Review Committee published in October 2017 relating to ethnic diversity on Boards.
We fully agree with the spirit and aspirations of the Davies Report to increase the number of women on company Boards.
All appointments to the Board are made on merit and within this context, whilst having regard to the recommendations of the Davies Report and the Parker Review Committee, the Board continues to view diversity in the widest sense, with a view to appointing the best-placed individual for the role.
Appointing the best people to the Board is critical to the success of the Company and our focus remains on attracting the right talent and skills irrespective of gender or diversity.
The additions of Stacey Cartwright and Florence Tondu-Mlique to the Board has increased the percentage of women on the Board to 33%.
Diversity is more than just gender based and the Board will continue to focus on this important issue in the wider context.
Board Evaluation In accordance with the provisions of the Code, we conduct an external independent evaluation of the effectiveness and performance of the Board and its principal Committees at least every three years.
This year the annual evaluation was carried out internally, led by the Senior Independent Director supported by the Legal Director and Company Secretary.
Next year the Board will again engage an independent external facilitator to undertake the evaluation.
The evaluation carried out this year involved every Board member completing a questionnaire which was then used as the basis of a confidential interview.
The matters covered by the evaluation included Board structure, Board effectiveness, working practices, relationships with shareholders and interaction between Board members and management.
The feedback obtained was collated into a report which was discussed fully by the Board.
The evaluation showed that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively without any significant areas of concern.
However, a number of recommendations arising from the suggestions and comments of Directors were agreed to improve further the effectiveness and efficiency of the Board process.
These included the key skill sets appropriate to potential new Directors and further improving interaction between Directors and management.
Board Induction and development To ensure a full understanding of Savills and its businesses, following their appointment to the Board, each Director undergoes a comprehensive and tailored induction programme which introduces the Director to the Groups businesses, its operations, strategic plans and key risks.
New Directors are also provided with information on relevant share dealing policies, Directors duties, Company policies and governance.
The induction also includes one to one briefings from the Heads of the Principal Businesses and an introduction to each Group businesss development strategy.
Access to Appropriate Information The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary, whose appointment is a matter reserved for the Board, is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on company law and corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, as well as ensuring that there is a smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making.
The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary is further responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive regular updates on developments in legal and regulatory matters.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and through him have access, if required, to independent professional advice in respect of their duties at the Companys expense.
Governance The Committee reviewed the Companys compliance with the Code and was satisfied that the Company complied with the Code.
The Committee would continue to receive updates on corporate governance developments and consider the impact of those developments on the Company.
Nicholas Ferguson CBE Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee 13 March 2019 55
