Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Accountability Review of the effectiveness of the Risk Going concern on a timely basis.
The full Board is kept Management and Internal control informed of any issues raised at these The Groups business activities, together systems meetings and the views of Shareholder with the factors considered likely to affect on a regular basis to ensure that they The principal risks and uncertainties its future development, performance and understand the views of Shareholders.
faced by the Group and the associated position are set out in the Strategic Report The Board also normally receives feedback mitigating actions for these are set out on pages 4 to 39.
The financial position of twice each year from its corporate brokers on pages 24 to 28. the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position on investors and the markets perceptions and borrowing facilities are described on The Board, assisted by the Audit of the Company.
The Chairman and Tim page 23.
In addition, Note 3 to the financial Committee, is responsible for reviewing the Freshwater as the Senior Independent statements includes the Groups objectives, operation and effectiveness of the Groups Director are also available to meet policies and processes for managing its internal controls.
The internal control Shareholders if so required.
capital, its financial risk management system is designed to manage rather than objectives, details of its financial The Annual General Meeting provides the eliminate the risk of failure to achieve instruments and hedging activities, and its Board with an opportunity to communicate business objectives and can provide only exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
with, and answer questions from, private reasonable and not absolute assurance and institutional shareholders and the against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has considerable financial whole Board is available before the resources, including a 360m committed The Board is also responsible for ensuring meeting, in particular, for shareholders to revolving credit facility that extends to that appropriate systems are in place to meet new Directors.
The Chairman of each December 2020.
The Group has a broad enable it to identify, assess and manage of the Audit, Nomination & Governance geographic presence, service offering and key risks.
This responsibility includes the and Remuneration Committees is available extensive client spread ensuring that the determination of the nature and extent of at the Annual General Meeting to answer Group is not over-dependent on one the principal risks the Board is willing to questions.
Directors are available before geography, service line or client.
As a take to achieve its strategic objectives and and during the meeting to answer consequence, the Directors believe that the for ensuring that an appropriate culture has questions from Shareholders and to meet Group is well placed to manage its business been embedded throughout the Directors following the conclusion of the risks successfully.
The Boards attitude and formal part of the meeting.
The level and appetite to risk is communicated to the The Directors have reviewed the current manner of voting of proxies lodged on Groups businesses through the strategy and projected financial position of the each resolution at the AGM is declared at planning processes.
Group, making reasonable assumptions the meeting and published on the about future trading performance.
The notice of the The Board is supported by the Audit basis of this review, and after making due AGM is sent out at least 20 working days Committee in discharging its oversight enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable before the meeting and at least 1 duties with regard to internal control and expectation that the Company and the working days notice is given before risk management.
During the year, the Group have adequate resources to other general meetings.
Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, continue as a going concern for a period of reviewed the effectiveness of the risk In accordance with the Articles of at least 12 months from the date of the management systems and internal control Association, electronic and paper proxy approval of the financial statements.
systems, including financial, operational appointments and voting instructions must Accordingly, they continue to adopt the and compliance controls.
The Board did be received not later than 48 hours before going concern basis in preparing the not identify any significant failings or a general meeting.
Taking into account Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the principal risks and uncertainties set out Dialogue with Shareholders the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2019 on pages 24 to 28, the ongoing work of the In accordance with the Code, the Board can be found in the Notice of Meeting Audit Committee in monitoring the risk recognises the importance of clear which accompanies this Report and management and internal control systems communication and proactive engagement Accounts.
The Groups website includes a on behalf of the Board, the Board remains with our Shareholders.
The Group Chief specific investor relations section satisfied that the review of internal controls Executive and Group Chief Financial containing all RNS announcements, share did not reveal any significant weaknesses Officer have primary responsibility for price information and annual reports and they continue to investor relations and lead a regular available for download.
The Company has operate effectively.
programme of meetings and presentations taken advantage of the provisions within with analysts and investors.
This includes the Companies Act 2006 which allow presentations following the publication of communications with Shareholders to be the Companys full and half year results.
made electronically where Shareholders This programme maintains a continuous have not requested hard copy two-way dialogue between the Company documentation.
Details of the information and Shareholders, and helps to ensure that available to Shareholders can be found on the Board is aware of Shareholders views page 172.
