171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 10 12 2018 12:30 Page 21 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee The responsibilities and work carried out by the Audit and reviewing the operational controls maintained by the Risk Committee during the year under review are set out in Manager, depositary and registrar: the following report.
The duties and responsibilities of the reviewing the half year and annual report and accounts committee may be found in the terms of reference which are and related audit plan and engagement letter: set out on the Companys webpages, www.
Membership of the reviewing the need for an internal audit function: committee is as set out on pages 15 and 16.
The board has reviewing the independence of the auditors: satisfied itself that at least one of the committees members has recent and relevant financial experience.
evaluating the auditors performance: The committee met twice during the year ended reviewing the principal risks faced by the Company and 30 September 2018.
The committee discharged its the system of internal control: and responsibilities by: agreeing to hold a tender for the provision of audit considering its terms of reference: services to the Company.
Annual report and financial statements During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2018, the committee, having deliberated on the Companys principal risks and uncertainties, considered the following significant issues, including consideration of principal risks and uncertainties in light of the Companys activities, and issues communicated by the auditors during its reporting: Issue considered How the issue was addressed Valuation and existence of holdings Review of portfolio holdings and assurance reports on controls from the Manager and depositary.
Overall accuracy of the annual report and accounts Consideration of the draft annual report and accounts and the letter from the Manager in support of the letter of representation to the auditors.
Calculation of the investment management fee Consideration of methodology used to calculate the fee, matched against the criteria set out in the AIFM agreement.
Internal controls and risk management Consideration of several key aspects of internal control and risk management operating within the Manager, depositary and registrar, including assurance reports on their controls.
Compliance with the investment trust qualifying rules in Consideration of the Managers report confirming S1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 compliance.
As a result of the work performed, the committee has Effectiveness of the independent audit concluded that the annual report and accounts for the year process ended 30 September 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary The committee evaluated the effectiveness of the for shareholders to assess the Companys position, independent audit firm and process prior to making a performance, business model and strategy, and has reported recommendation on its re-appointment at the forthcoming on these findings to the board.
The boards conclusions in this AGM.
This evaluation involved an assessment of the respect are set out in the Statement of Directors effectiveness of the auditors performance against agreed Responsibilities on page 23. criteria including: qualification: knowledge, expertise and resources: independence policies: effectiveness of audit planning: adherence to auditing standards: and overall competence.
As part of the evaluation, the committee considered feedback from the Manager on the audit process and the year end report from the auditors, which details compliance with regulatory requirements, on safeguards that Annual Report and Accounts 21 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 10 12 2018 12:30 Page 22 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee have been established, and on their own internal quality required, provide other non-audit services however, and this control procedures.
The members of the Committee also met will be judged on a case-by-case basis.
the auditors without representatives of the Manager present.
The auditors have not provided any non-audit services to the Representatives of the auditors attend the committee Company during the year 2017: 2,000 for taxation meeting at which the draft annual report and accounts is compliance services.
Having reviewed the performance of the auditors as described above, the committee considered it appropriate to recommend the firms re-appointment.
Internal audit The auditor is required to rotate the senior statutory auditor The Company does not have an internal audit function: it every five years.
This is the first year that the senior statutory delegates to third parties most of its operations and does not auditor has conducted the audit of the Companys financial employ any staff.
The committee will continue to monitor the statements.
system of internal control in order to provide assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will continue to  LLP has provided audit services to annually review whether an internal audit function is needed.
the Company from its incorporation in 1995 to date.
In line with the provisions of the Statutory Auditors and Third Country Regulations 2016 relating to the mandatory rotation of the auditor, after the year end, the committee held a tender for the provision of audit services to the Company.
As at the date of this report, the committee is reviewing the Rosemary Morgan submissions, which do not include  Audit and Risk Committee Chairman LLP, as the firm is excluded from the process due to length of tenure.
The result of the audit tender will be announced in 10 December 2018 the first half of 2019 with the new firm undertaking the 2019 audit.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditors.
Independent auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company, and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
The new auditor, to be appointed by directors during the financial year ended 30 September 2019, will be proposed for re-appointment by shareholders at the 2020 AGM.
Provision of information to the auditors The directors at the date of approval of this report confirm that, so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Provision of non-audit services The committee has reviewed the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees and has formulated a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditors.
The committee has determined that the Companys appointed auditors will not be considered for the provision of certain non-audit services, such as accounting and preparation of the financial statements, internal audit and custody.
The auditors may, if Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 22 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 10 12 2018 12:30 Page 23 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, Company, together with a description of the principal and the financial statements in accordance with applicable risks and uncertainties that it faces: and law and regulations.
the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial balanced and understandable and provides the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the information necessary for shareholders to assess the directors have prepared the financial statements in Companys position and performance, business model accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted and strategy.
Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, On behalf of the board comprising Financial Reporting Standard FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of Nicholas Smith the state of affairs of the Company and of the return or loss Chairman of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: 10 December 2018 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: notify the Companys shareholders in writing about the use of disclosure exemptions in FRS 102, used in the preparation of the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Manager is responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the webpage dedicated to the Company.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 15 and 16, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and net return of the Company: the Strategic Report contained in the report and accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Annual Report and Accounts 23 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance
