Audit and Risk Committee report Responding to new audit governance challenges and changes Committee membership meeting attendance is on page 55 Rhian Davies Chairman Robin Buchanan Rakhi Goss-Custard from November 2018 Lord Howard until April 2018 Nichola Pease I am pleased to present the Committees report for the year ended heightened risk issues.
Conduct and culture risk is informed by a 31 December 2018.
The Committee plays a key role in overseeing the number of metrics, including conduct risk reports, employee opinion integrity of the Companys financial statements and robustness of the surveys and oversight by the second line of defence functions.
Groups systems of internal control and financial and risk Although there is no overall standard industry approach, we believe management systems.
that the Groups arrangements are well-positioned against regulatory expectations.
The Committee recognises its role in promoting the integrity of the Groups financial results and high-quality reporting.
At the 2018 AGM, During the year, the Committee continued to focus on its Ernst & Young EY were appointed as the Groups external auditor responsibility for oversight of the Groups control environment and and we have welcomed the fresh insights, challenges and perspectives system of internal controls and the Groups management of risk and they have brought to the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and to our compliance related activities.
As part of this work, the Committee discussions throughout the year.
The smooth transition is a testament considered the Groups ICAAP, ILAAP, wind down plan, risk appetite to the work undertaken by the Group and the professionalism of EY and various operational stress scenarios to support the Boards and the outgoing external auditor, PwC.
conclusions on the viability statement set out on page 42.
We welcome the Kingman review and the Competition and Markets I would like to welcome Rakhi Goss-Custard as a member of the Authoritys efforts to improve audit quality and to reduce the risk of Committee.
Rakhi replaces Robin Buchanan, who will retire from the further reduction in the choice of auditor and we fully support the Board at the 2019 AGM.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to objective of increasing confidence in financial reporting through a thank Robin for his invaluable contribution over the past nine years.
focus on transparent reporting by companies, along with the I am grateful to all members of the Committee for their support assurance of a high-quality audit.
in2018 and I look forward to continuing our work in 2019.
The Committee plays an important role in reviewing culture and Rhian Davies conduct risk in the Group, which seeks to promote a client-centric Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee culture.
We have continued to oversee the development of our conduct programme designed to identify emerging trends and 6 March 2019 Davies, a chartered accountant, has the Limited, attended one meeting and Responsibilities of the Committee recent and relevant financial experience provided a report to each meeting on The principal role of the Committee is to required to chair the Committee.
matters related to the Wealth assist the Board in fulfilling itsoversight Management business.
responsibilities in relation to financial The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Chief reporting, financial controls and audit, risk Financial Officer and Bruno Schroder were Representatives from EY, including Julian and internal controls.
invited to attend meetings by the Chairman Young, the new lead audit partner for the All members of the Committee are of the Committee.
Other regular attendees 2018 financial year, attended all of the independent non-executive Directors.
who advised the Committee were the Committees scheduled meetings.
During Biographical details and the experience of Group Financial Controller, the heads of 2018, two private meetings were held with Committee members are set out on pages Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit and the the external auditor without management 48 and 49.
The Board has determined that, General Counsel.
Other members of senior present.
Private meetings were also held by virtue of their previous experience management were also invited to attend as with the Chief Financial Officer andthe gained in other organisations, members appropriate.
The Chairman of the Wealth heads of the Compliance, Risk and Internal collectively have the competence relevant Management Audit and Risk Committee Audit functions.
These meetings provided tothe sector in which the Group operates.
WMARC, who is an independent nonan opportunity for any matters to be In addition, the Board considers that Rhian executive Director of Schroder & Co. raised confidentially.
62 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Financial reporting, financial controls and The Committees primary activities are the oversight of: external audit The Committees responsibilities Financial reporting, include reviewing the half-year financial controls andaudit Risk and internal controls and annual results and the Annual Report and Accounts The content and integrity of financial and The Groups risk and control framework, before recommending them to Pillar 3 reporting including the Groups whistleblowing the Board for approval.
The procedures and the Head of Financial Crime The appropriateness of accounting estimates Committees responsibilities also Risks reports and judgements include oversight of the The Groups ICAAP, ILAAP, wind down plan, The effectiveness of the financial control effectiveness of the external risk appetite and the recovery plan and framework audit, the independence of the resolution pack external auditor and The effectiveness of the external auditor The Groups regulatory compliance processes recommending to the Board the The independence of the external auditor and procedures and its relationships with appointment of the Recommending to the Board the regulators and compliance monitoring external auditor.
appointment of the external auditor The Groups Internal Audit function At the AGM in April 2018, Emerging and thematic risks that may have a shareholders approved the material impact on the Groups operations in appointment of EY, to replace the future PwC as external auditor.
Since the conclusion of the audit tender process in 2016, the Committee has overseen the Key areas of focus during the year transition of the external audit.
The table below summarises the key issues that the Committee considered at each of its The audit tender process, the meetings during 2018.
At every meeting, the Committee receives updates from Internal Audit, transition process and the Compliance, Legal and External Audit covering ongoing projects, key issues that have Committees work during 2018, arisen since the prior meeting and reviews a dashboard of metrics in place for key risks.
with respect to the auditor, was primarily focused on ensuring Financial reporting, that the Committee selected a Meeting financial controls and audit Risk and internal controls firm that would provide robust challenge over the production of February Annual Report and Accounts, including Report from WMARC the Groups financial statements financial estimates and judgements Key risks and risk management and that the audit would be Viability statement Internal audit control framework effective and of high-quality Pillar 3 disclosures review from the first year.
Providing oversight of the external auditor Financial crime review also supports the Committees May External audit plan, including significant ICAAP and ILAAP responsibilities with respect to audit risks being improper recognition of Business continuity the content and integrity of revenue and cost of sales financial reporting, the Oversight of outsource providers appropriateness of accounting Privileged access review estimates and judgements, and July Half-year results, including financial Key risks the effectiveness of the financial estimates and judgements control framework.
Risk and control assessments September Tax strategy Conduct and culture risk oversight Client on-boarding processes Group recovery plan and resolution pack Financial Crime and AML review November Financial controls Information security and technology risk Accounting policies and judgements including future accounting Cyber security developments Wind down plan Policies for safeguarding the Key risks independence of the external auditor Legal risk Insurance review 2019 Internal Audit and Compliance monitoring plans Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Significant accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the financial statements requires the application of certain estimates and judgements.
The material areas of either estimation or judgement are set out in the presentation of the financial statements on page 150.
Each of these areas are considered by the Committee based on reports prepared by Finance.
EY consider each estimate and judgement and present their conclusions to the Committee.
The significant estimates and judgements considered in respect of the 2018 financial statements and the agreed action by the Committee are summarised below.
Significant estimates and judgements Action and conclusion Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates in 2018 The Group acquired a number of subsidiaries and associates during 2018.
Significant The Committee considered a report from Finance that set judgements were made to estimate the fair value of the acquired intangible assets and out the principal valuation assumptions and fair values in the deferred consideration in relation to the acquisition of Algonquin.
The judgements respect of Algonquin.
The Committee considered the were mainly in respect of the estimation of forecast returns from the business and the assumptions and the sensitivity of the fair values to applicable discount rate, which were used to determine both the contingent changes in the assumptions.
consideration component of the purchase price and the acquired intangible asset.
The EY also provided the Committee with a report summarising other acquisitions did not require any significant estimate or judgement in the context the findings from their audit of the acquisition accounting of the Groups results.
The Committee discussed the findings with EY who confirmed they had not identified any significant matters to draw to the Committees attention.
Once the Committee was satisfied with the proposals, they concluded that the fair value estimates were appropriate.
Please refer to Note 28 in respect of estimates and judgements made in respect of acquisitions made in 2018.
Carried interest The Group recognises carried interest from its private assets businesses.
The revenue The Committee received a report from Finance, which stream is dependent on the future value of certain investments that may not crystallise reviewed the valuation bases for estimating the amounts until an uncertain date in the future.
The Group is contractually committed to make receivable and payable in respect of carried interest.
The payments to various parties, including as part of deferred consideration, based on a Committee considered the judgement applied in relevant proportion of carried interest received.
determining the principal assumptions and the sensitivity of the relevant balances to those assumptions.
For financial reporting purposes, the Group is required to estimate the value of carried interest receivable, determined based on the requirements of IFRS 15 Revenue from The Committee discussed the accounting for carried Contracts with Customers: and the fair value of amounts payable that relate to carried interest with EY and considered the findings from their interest, determined based on the requirement of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Once the Committee was satisfied with the judgements applied, the estimated carrying values of each The valuation bases for the significant balances in 2018 were materially consistent with component were approved.
those applied in the prior year and comprised the fair value of the relevant assets on which carried interest may be earned, growth rates, the expected realisation dates and Due to the increase in value of carried interest balances at the discount rates.
Following the implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts the year end, the Committee considered the additional with Customers, the amounts recorded as receivable were constrained through disclosures presented in 2018 and concluded that they applying adjustments as explained in note 2. were appropriate.
Please refer to note 2 for the estimates and judgements made in respect of carried interest receivable and amounts payable in respect of carried interest.
Anexplanation of carried interest is set out on page 26.
Pension Schemes The Groups principal DB pension scheme is in respect of certain UK employees and The finance report to the Committee included the key former employees the Scheme.
The Scheme was closed to future accrual in 2011 financial assumptions, which had been applied by the and, as at 31 December 2018, had a significant surplus.
The pension obligation, which independent qualified actuaries, Aon Hewitt Limited, to was valued as 795.6 million at the year end, is estimated based on a number of determine the Scheme surplus.
EYs report sets out their assumptions, the most significant relating to mortality rates.
The other assumptions conclusions on the pension surplus.
The Committee used to determine the DB pension surplus are significantly less judgemental and the considered the proposed assumptions, and specifically valuation of plan assets is mainly based on securities with readily available those relating to mortality rates, and was satisfied that market values.
Please refer to Note 24 for more information on the estimates and judgements made in respect of the Scheme.
Presentation of profits The consolidated income statement separately presents exceptional items.
This The Committee considered, and was satisfied with, the presentation is permitted by accounting rules for specific items of income or expense continued presentation of exceptional items within a that are considered material.
The presentation involves judgement by the Group to separate column in the consolidated income statement.
identify the items that warrant specific disclosure in accordance with This presentation is considered appropriate as it provides accounting standards.
atransparent view of certain items and the underlying performance of the business.
In forming their conclusions, the Committee considered the findings of EY.
For 2018, exceptional items principally comprised the cost reduction programme, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and costs associated with acquisitions and disposals.
Please refer to note 1b for more information on exceptional items.
64 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Financial reporting and financial controls Assessment of audit quality and effectiveness The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have Following the completion of PwCs audit for the 2017 Annual Report been adopted and whether management have made appropriate and Accounts, the Group Financial Controller undertook a review of estimates and judgements, including those summarised on page 150. their performance on behalf of the Committee.
This assessment was The Committee is also required to report to shareholders on the performed in addition to the normal assessment processes that were process it followed in its review of significant estimates and conducted by the Committee prior to the publication of the 2017 judgemental issues that it had considered during the year.
These Annual Report and Accounts.
The Chairman of the Committee areas are set out on page 64.
During 2018, the Committee considered provided feedback to a senior PwC partner, independent of the the Groups final proposals on the adoption of two new accounting engagement team, that areas of improvement identified following the standards for 2018, and received an update on further accounting review in respect of the 2016 audit had been addressed and that no developments that would be adopted in the future.
These are deterioration in the quality of the audit was noted, with PwC being summarised in the basis of preparation of the financial statements independent and bringing objectivity and scepticism to the 2017 audit.
This process concluded the Groups external audit relationship with PwC and the formal assessment of PwCs performance for the 2017 Financial reporting relies on there being an appropriate financial year-end.
The Committee receives reports on the existing control environment as well as plans to enhance controls in the future, EY were selected as external auditor based on criteria that were along with progress made against previous planned changes.
The primarily focused on audit quality and effectiveness.
Notwithstanding reports provide a comprehensive summary of the controls that exist the Committees decision to recommend EYs appointment, during the across the Finance function globally and support the Groups risk and audit tender process the Committee identified some areas of focus for control assessments.
For more details, see page 41.
For 2018, the EY and these were discussed with the lead engagement partner and reports mainly focused on proposed enhancements to the Groups the Committees assessment of EYs performance was undertaken reporting capabilities and cost management processes, as well as with particular focus on these identified areas.
providing an update on control enhancements within the revenue and During the transition phase, prior to EYs appointment in 2018, the commissions processes.
The financial control environment is also Committee received regular reports from the Group Financial subject to audit procedures by both the Groups internal and Controller on the transition activity to ensure that this was well external auditors.
The Committee also considers other controls that might have an Following EYs appointment in April 2018, the Committee has impact on financial reporting.
During 2018, the Committee received a continued to assess their performance, including consideration of report from EY that presented a company and industry review of cyber theaudit plan, which contained the key areas of audit risk, progress security.
In addition, the Committee reviews the Groups tax strategy against the plan, responsiveness to changes in our business and their annually, which is discussed with the external auditors.
For more conclusions on estimates, judgements and other areas of focus that details see pages 38 and 39. were identified during the performance of their work.
The Committee considers the Groups financial projections and the The Committee has also assessed the regulatory findings on application of stress scenarios so that the Board can make the viability inspections conducted in respect of EY audits since the audit tender statement, as set out on page 42, and to support the going concern process was concluded and areas of development were discussed with basis of preparation of the financial statements.
Julian Young, the senior statutory auditor.
A key focus of the Committee is its work in assisting the Board in The Committee has received initial feedback from key stakeholders on ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a the conduct of EYs audit.
This initial feedback provided the Committee whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and assessing whether with assurance that there were no areas of significant concern itprovides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the regarding the audit.
The process by which the more detailed Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The assessment of EYs performance on the 2018 audit will be conducted Committee considered the key messages communicated in the 2018 was considered and approved by the Committee in March 2019.
This Annual Report and Accounts, as well as the information provided to process will be carried out later in the year by way of a questionnaire the Committee and the Board as a whole during the year and their completed by key stakeholders, prepared in accordance with the FRCs discussions on these.
The Committee, having completed its review, guidance on assessing audit quality.
The findings from this recommended to the Board that, when taken as a whole, the 2018 questionnaire, including any areas for improvement, will be Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable considered by the Committee and communicated to EY prior to andprovides the information necessary for shareholders to assess commencing the 2019 audit process.
The Committee will then monitor theGroups position and performance, business model and strategy.
EYs progress against these findings as part of their ongoing focus on auditor effectiveness and audit quality.
Oversight of the external auditor The Committee places great importance on the quality, effectiveness Independence and non-audit services and independence of the external audit process.
The external auditor EYs independence was considered during the 2016 audit tender attends all the Committees scheduled meetings and EY have attended process, where certain services and independence constraints were the Committee since November 2017, prior to their appointment, at identified that required resolution before EY were appointed.
In May the request of the Committee.
The Committee holds private meetings 2017, EY wrote to the Committee to confirm that all independence with the external auditor without management present.
In selecting constraints had been cleared.
EY have continued to confirm their EY as the external auditor and in performing their other independence during the 2018 half-year results and prior to issuing responsibilities with regards to the external auditor, the Committee their opinion on the Annual Report and Accounts.
applies the principles of the Code and guidance provided by various bodies, including the FRC.
One key factor in ensuring auditor independence is the Committees consideration of the provision of certain non-audit services by EY.
The The Committee can confirm that the Company has complied with the Committee maintains a policy on the engagement of the auditor for provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014 the provision of non-audit services to safeguard their independence relating to the UK audit market for large companies throughout the and objectivity.
This policy is reviewed annually and takes account of year under review and as at the date of this report.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Audit and Risk Committee report continued relevant regulatory restrictions and guidance in the jurisdictions in Risk which the Group operates, including those in the UK.
The policy Risk reports set out changes in the level or nature of the risks faced by prohibits the provision of certain non-permitted non-audit services the Group, developments in risk management and operational events, and contains rules regarding the approving of permitted non-audit including significant errors and omissions.
Separate reports allowed services that are permitted by regulation.
the Committee to consider a range of factors when determining the key risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
These included The Groups outgoing auditor, PwC, was required to comply with the assessments of risk tolerance and stress testing of the Groups capital policy until June 2018, when PwC resigned from all subsidiaries that position, as well as the production of the Groups ICAAP, ILAAP, the are public interest entities, as defined by the EU.
EY has been subject wind down plan and the Groups Recovery Plan and Resolution Pack.
to the policy since November 2016, subject to the completion of any existing services that had begun prior to the audit tender process.
The Committee also considers emerging and thematic risks that may have a material impact on the Group.
During the year, the Committee Details of the total fees paid to EY are set out in note 4 to the accounts.
reviewed the Groups arrangements in the areas of business The policy on non-audit services restricts the appointment of EY to continuity, information security and culture and conduct risk.
services that are closely related to the audit.
Other services, where they are not prohibited, may also be considered but these will not Further information can be found in the key risks and mitigations normally be approved by the Committee.
Certain services are section of the Strategic report set out on pages 40 to 47. provided to the Group that are closely related to the audit but are not required by regulation.
The Committee considers that these services Set out on this and the following page are summaries of the Committees activity in four areas where members of the first line are most appropriately performed by the Groups external auditor as they support the statutory audit as well as providing the external audit ofdefence attended and presented to the Committee in relation to emerging and thematic risks.
with relevant insights on aspects of the business, although they are not necessarily directly related to the financial statements.
Non-audit fees, excluding audit-related assurance services required Information and Cyber Security under regulation, equated to 14% of audit fees.
The equivalent Clients continue to seek reassurance that the Group has effective calculation for 2017, but in respect of services provided by PwC, Information and Cyber Security arrangements in light of the was 51%.
increase in high profile cyber attacks in recent years.
The Committee received an update on privileged access management, For 2018, the non-audit services not required by regulation mainly which had been identified as an area for improvement in the comprised assurance services in respect of controls reports, issued external review of Schroders Information Security controls under International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3402 or undertaken by PA Consulting in 2017.
The privileged access similar principles, that are normally conducted by a Groups external project has progressed well.
In addition, changes in user access auditor but are not required by regulation and Global Investment accounts are being improved to extend controls beyond the ISAE Performance Standards verification.
These services are assurance in 3402 and financial audit systems.
nature and do not present a risk to independence.
The external landscape continues to evolve with additional volume Auditor oversight conclusion of and increasingly sophisticated attacks.
In light of the pace of Prior to recommending the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts for developments in this area, the Committee will continue to review approval, the Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit, and assess the Groups capabilities.
whether there was sufficient evidence of audit quality and considered EYs independence.
In forming their conclusion, the Committee considered the evidence provided directly to the Committee, as well as feedback compiled by the Group Financial Controller.
Transition to new technology platforms The move to 1 London Wall Place provided the opportunity to On the basis of the review, the Committee is satisfied with the work of upgrade some of our technology systems.
The Committee EY and that they are objective and independent.
Accordingly the considered the transition to new technology platforms as a key Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to priority for 2018 and received a number of updates throughout the 2019 AGM for the reappointment of EY as external auditor, and the year.
During the year, the business introduced S3, a virtual the Board has accepted this recommendation.
desktop technology, for all London staff and transitioned to a new Risk and internal controls front office investment platform.
These systems enabled the business to make improvements to its internal processes and The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of business continuity arrangements.
internal controls, the ongoing monitoring of risk and internal control systems and for reporting on any significant failings or weaknesses.
The Committee had a number of reports on the transition to the new front office investment platform, which was implemented in The system of control is designed to manage rather than eliminate 2018. therisk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or The Committee also received an update on the utilisation of loss.
TheBoard has delegated to the Committee responsibility for technology in the key Group-wide client take-on project aimed at reviewingthe effectiveness and monitoring of the risk and internal improving all aspects of client on-boarding across all client types, controls framework.
The project has already mitigated some take-on risks through the implementation of standard On behalf of the Board, the Committee carried out the annual processes and adoption of validated data in the engagement assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during 2018, process, the key aim being a reduction in manual processes.
including those related to the financial reporting process.
The The Committee will continue to focus on progress made in this Committee also considered the adequacy of the Groups risk area during 2019. management arrangements in the context of the Groups business and strategy.
In carrying out its assessment, the Committee considered reports from the Group Financial Controller and the heads of Compliance, Risk, Internal Audit and from EY.
This enabled an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework.
66 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance The Committee also has responsibility for approving the Internal Audit Oversight of outsourced services budget and being satisfied that the Internal Audit function has appropriate resources and continues to be effective and a valued The Group relies on external service partners to supplement our own infrastructure but retains responsibility for these services.
assurance function within the Group.
The Committee satisfies itself as to the quality, experience and expertise of the function through The Committee conducts regular reviews of the Groups material outsource providers in accordance with the Groups outsourcing regular interaction with the Group Head of Internal Audit, both when the Committee meets and also through other regular meetings policy.
During 2018, the Group continued to develop these governance processes extending oversight to a broader range of outside the formal meeting schedule.
The Committee also reviewed the status of ongoing Internal Audit reports to the Committee set out progress against a improvement programmes and other actions that are focused on rolling plan of audits approved by the Committee on an annual basis.
addressing service quality issues identified in previous years.
The These reports include any significant findings from audits performed Committee is also overseeing the transition of the Groups largest and their subsequent remediation and recommendations to improve outsource provider of transfer agency and administration services the control environment.
During the year the Committee agreed to for our UK funds and Life Company.
This migration is scheduled to proposed amendments to the internal audit plan to meet the evolving commence in 2019.
The Committee will continue to provide gross risks faced by the business.
In 2018, additional audit work was oversight of the Groups outsourcing arrangements, particularly carried out in relation to technology in Benchmark Capital, product new partners who were engaged in 2018 and throughout 2019. governance, GDPR and dealing commission.
Both the annual compliance monitoring and Internal Audit plans aredeveloped on a risk-weighted basis to provide proportionate New regulatory requirements reassurance over the Groups controls for the key risks set out The Committee received reports from the new Group Head of onpages 40 to 47.
Financial Crime Risk in recognition of the Groups increased risk profile in respect of financial crime, particularly in the Wealth Evaluating the performance of the Committee Management and private assets and alternatives businesses and The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was activities in higher risk countries in Asia and South America.
undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process.
The Financial crime remains a high priority for all of the Groups findings relating to the Committee were discussed with the regulators, with compliance driven by the implementation of the Committee Chairman.
Overall, the Committee is considered to be th th 4 and 5 EU Money Laundering Directives, the UK Criminal performing well, is rigorous and effective in discharging its Finances Act and the US sanctions regime.
All relevant staff are responsibilities and providing the Board with assurance.
required to undertake training and attest to compliance with the Priorities for 2019 Groups financial crime policies.
As well as considering the standing items of business, the Committee GDPR came into force on 25 May 2018.
During 2018, the will also focus onthe following areas during 2019: Committee received updates on its implementation and impact on the Group including the amendments to our processes and Cyber and information security policies to address its requirements.
In January 2018, MiFID II Conduct and culture risk came into force.
The Committee continues to monitor the Financial crime implementation and embedding of its requirements.
Transition to new technology platforms and robotics New regulatory requirements including the expansion of the Senior Compliance Managers and Certification Regime Compliance reports describe the status of our relationships and Oversight of outsourced services and planned changes dealings with our principal regulators and material changes in the regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
The reports also Acquisition and integration risks outline key compliance issues, and the planning and execution of the Committees assessment of internal control and risk compliance monitoring programme.
Monitoring is carried out globally to assess the Groups compliance with local regulatory standards management arrangements and requirements.
In light of its work, the Committee was content with the effectiveness of the Groups processes governing financial and regulatory reporting The Committee considered the extension of the Senior Managers and controls, its culture, ethical standards and its relationships with and Certification Regime, which will include asset managers and regulators.
The Committee was also satisfied with the appropriateness other investment firms from 9 December 2019 and the potential and adequacy of the Groups risk management arrangements and impacts of possible Brexit scenarios.
The Committee also received supporting risk management systems including: the risk monitoring reports on the application of GDPR and MiFID to ensure the Groups processes, internal controls framework and the three lines of arrangements remained under close review following their defence model.
implementation and on conduct and culture.
Internal Audit By order of the Board The Committee has authority to appoint or remove the Group Head of Internal Audit, who reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee.
Rhian Davies The Chairman of the Committee is accountable for setting the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee objectives of the Group Head of Internal Audit, appraising his performance against those objectives and for recommending his 6 March 2019 remuneration to the Remuneration Committee, with advice from the Group Chief Executive.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67
