Nominations Committee report Ensuring diversity in skills and experience Committee membership meeting attendance is on page 55 Activities of the Nomination Committee As we stated in our last annual report, our priorities in 2018 were Michael Dobson Chairman Lord Howard until April 2018 Board composition and succession planning for non-executive Robin Buchanan Ian King Directors, including a successor to Robin Buchanan who will stand Sir Damon Buffini Philip Mallinckrodt down at the 2019 AGM after nine years on the Board.
Senior Rhian Davies Nichola Pease management succession was discussed by the full Board at the November meeting.
Rakhi Goss-Custard Bruno Schroder At our meeting in May, we discussed the required skills and experience for potential non-executive candidates.
We were looking I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee report for 2018. for sound business judgement, a clear ability to contribute to our strategic discussions and experience of leading an international Responsibilities of the Nominations Committee business.
The Committee is responsible for keeping under review the Following that meeting, we agreed the role profile and appointed composition of the Board and its Committees and for ensuring MWM Consulting to conduct the search for potential candidates.
appropriate executive and non-executive Director succession plans MWM Consulting is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on are in place.
Gender Diversity and is independent of Schroders.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys After discussing an initial long list of candidates, I interviewed five Investor Relations website at schroders.
candidates, four of whom went forward to meet the Nominations Biographical details and experience of the Committee members are Committee and the Group Chief Executive.
On 6 March 2019, the set out on pages 48 and 49.
Board approved the appointment of Deborah Waterhouse, who is Chief Executive of ViiV Healthcare.
Deborah will join the Board on 11 March 2019 and we look forward to benefiting from her experience as CEO of a major international business.
In addition to Board succession, the Committee also considered the composition of the principal Board Committees, particularly in the context of Robin Buchanans impending retirement.
At our meeting in November 2018, the Committee recommended to the Board that Damon Buffini should join the Remuneration Committee and Rakhi Goss-Custard join the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board supported both these recommendations and the appointments were effective 29 November 2018.
Bruno Schroder died on 20 Feburary, aged 86 after a short illness.
For more than 40 years the Board has included two Directors with a connection to the principal shareholder group.
The Board has previously stated that it operates most effectively with an appropriate balance of executive Directors, independent non-executive Directors and Directors with a connection to the principal shareholder group.
60 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Policy on board diversity The Board recognises the importance of diversity and that it is a wider issue than gender.
We believe that members of the Board should collectively possess a diverse range of skills, expertise, industry knowledge, business and other experience necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity as one of many factors when recommending new appointments to the Board.
As at 31 December 2018, 27% of the Board comprised women.
With the appointments of Deborah Waterhouse and Leonie Schroder, and the retirement of Robin Buchanan, 45% of the Board will comprise women.
We also endeavour to only use the service of executive search firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on Gender Diversity.
Bruno Schroder was anticipating retiring from the Board at the AGM Diversity on 2 May 2019.
Consequently, the Nominations Committee gave Diversity goes beyond gender or ethnic background.
We look for consideration in 2018 to the model for recognising in the Board diversity of skills, experience and background, which is important for composition the interests in the Company of the principal shareholder an effective Board and management team, and this will continue to be group, as well as to his succession.
We considered alternative models the primary criterion by which we select candidates for the Board.
and, on behalf of the Committee, the Senior Independent Director and The Board fully understands the importance of increasing gender I consulted with representatives of the trustees of the family trusts diversity and has committed to have a minimum of 33% of Board and other members of the principal shareholder group.
The positions held by women by 2020.
Following the changes announced, Committee concluded that the current model continues to be in the 45% of the Board will comprise women.
We endeavour only to use the best interests of the Company and all its shareholders, whereby two services of executive search firms which have signed up to the family members serve on the Board as non-independent, nonVoluntary Code of Conduct on Gender Diversity.
The full Board executive Directors, alongside a majority of independent nondiversity policy is above and also on our website.
executive Directors and the two executive Directors.
In February 2019, prior to Bruno Schroders death, the Committee received from the Evaluating the performance of the Committee trustees of the family trusts controlling 44.75% of the Companys The internal evaluation process for 2018 is set out in detail on page 58. ordinary shares a proposal that Leonie Schroder succeed Bruno As part of that process I discussed with each Director how the Schroder on the Board.
Nichola Pease and I interviewed Leonie Committee had performed over the year.
The overall view was that Schroder and were satisfied that she would make a valuable the Committee had established a clear and effective process for contribution, act in the best interests of all shareholders and provide a succession for independent non-executive Directors and for Directors useful communications channel with the principal shareholder group.
with a connection to the principal shareholder group.
After careful consideration, the Committee recommended the appointment of Leonie Schroder to the Board and this was supported Priorities for 2019 by all Directors.
Leonie will join the Board also on 11 March 2019.
During 2019, we will continue to review Board composition and As part of the process, the Board engaged with a number of major succession planning for senior management and noninstitutional shareholders.
All those shareholders indicated their executive Directors.
support for the proposal to appoint Leonie Schroder, given the overall Michael Dobson mix of skills on the Board and the majority of independent nonChairman of the Nominations Committee executive Directors.
Following the changes announced, the Board will continue to comprise 11 Directors, six of whom are independent 6 March 2019 non-executive Directors.
Directors standing for re-election The Committee agreed that all Directors standing for re-election continue to make a valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations and recommends their re-election.
As Nichola Pease and Philip Mallinckrodt have served on the Board for more than six years and nine years respectively, the proposal for their re-election was given particular consideration.
The Committee recommends their re-election.
As required by the UK Listing Rules, the appointment of independent Directors must be approved by a simple majority of all shareholders and by a simple majority of the independent shareholders.
Further details are set out in the 2019 Notice of AGM.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61
