Corporate governance report A strong governance framework to support the firms long term strategic development I am pleased to introduce our corporate governance report for 2018 in which we describe our governance arrangements, the operation of the Board and its Committees and how the Board discharged its responsibilities during the year.
Robin Buchanan who will step down at the Annual General Meeting in Governance May after nine years on the Board, and on succession to Bruno 2018 was a year of significant change with regard to corporate Schroder.
We are pleased that Deborah Waterhouse and Leonie governance in the UK as the Financial Reporting Council issued their Schroder will join the Board on 11 March.
The majority of nonrevised UK Governance Code.
The Wates Report on governance in executive independent Directors continues and 45 per cent of our private companies, including major subsidiaries within listed Board will be comprised of women.
companies, was published in December.
The audit market and the role of auditors is currently under review, and the FRC itself was the During 2018 the Board focused principally on strategic opportunities subject of a review by Sir John Kingman, who recommended the in our core business and in diversifying growth areas.
In this context establishment of a new regulator to replace the FRC with responsibility the Board was actively engaged in the implications for Schroders for for governance in the UK.
Further changes to governance in the UK the joint venture we announced with Lloyds Banking Group.
We also focussed on talent management and development and the The Board has followed all these developments closely, receiving firms culture, both of which are key to success and, particularly as the regular updates on how proposals might impact our own governance Company has grown rapidly in recent years, the Boards engagement arrangements and what changes we might need to make.
We have in these areas will continue to be at a high level.
not had to change our approach to any significant degree, the emphasis being on articulating better what we do rather than I would like to thank all my colleagues on the Board for their contribution during the year.
introducing fundamental change, and we continue to believe that a strong corporate governance framework is vital to good decision Michael Dobson making and the continued success of the Company.
Chairman We have a strong Board of experienced Directors with diverse backgrounds and skills and a majority of independent non-executive 6 March 2019 Directors.
During 2018 the Board focused on succession planning for 54 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and Committees on which they serve.
Details of Board and Committee attendance are included in the table below.
1 2018 Board and Committee Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations 2 meeting attendance Committee Committee Committee Michael Dobson 6 6 7 7 Executive Directors Peter Harrison 6 6 Richard Keers 6 6 Non-executive Directors 3 Ian King 6 6 6 7 7 7 4 Lord Howard 2 2 1 1 2 2 2 2 5 Robin Buchanan 5 6 4 5 7 7 6 7 6 Sir Damon Buffini 6 6 1 1 6 6 Rhian Davies 6 6 5 5 7 7 7 Rakhi Goss-Custard 6 6 7 7 8 Philip Mallinckrodt 5 6 7 7 Nichola Pease 6 6 5 5 7 7 7 7 9 Bruno Schroder 4 6 6 7 1.
There were five scheduled Board meetings held during the year and one 6.
Sir Damon Buffini was appointed to the Board and Nominations Committee additional Board meeting in April to discuss the acquisition of Algonquin.
on 1 February 2018 and as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 2.
There were four scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings held during 29 November 2018. the year and three additional meetings outlined on page 74.
Rakhi Goss-Custard was appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk 3.
Ian King was unable to attend one of the unscheduled Remuneration Committee on 29 November 2018.
There were no meetings of the Committee Committee meetings due to a prior commitment which could not be moved.
Lord Howard retired from the Board at the 2018 AGM.
Philip Mallinckrodt was unable to attend the Board meeting in July due to a 5.
Robin Buchanan was unable to attend the Audit and Risk Committee in family commitment.
September, the Nominations Committee and the Board meeting in November 9.
Bruno Schroder was unable to attend two Board meetings and a Nominations due to prior commitments.
Committee meeting due to illness.
There is also a Chairmans Committee whose membership is Compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate comprised of the non-executive Directors.
The Chairmans Committee GovernanceCode Code is not a committee of the Board and serves as an informal forum for Throughout 2018, the Company has applied the main principles and the discussion of such matters as the Chairman considers appropriate.
provisions of the Code with the exception of A.
3.1 as Michael Dobson In 2018, the Chairmans Committee considered Board evaluation, the was not independent on appointment as Chairman in April 2016.
The performance of the Group Chief Executive, the investor perception Chairmans appointment was fully explained in the 2015 Annual report, acquisition opportunities and succession.
There has been an absolute majority of independent Directors on the Board throughout 2018.
Following the 2017 external board evaluation, which is explained further on page 57, there have been four Board calls during the year.
Copies of the Code can be obtained from the FRCs website at These calls are used as an additional avenue for communication that frc.
supplements the formal Board meeting programme.
The Board and its committees Board composition at 31 December 2018 The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Company.
It is accountable to shareholders Board composition Length of tenure for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
In discharging its responsibilities, the Board takes appropriate account of the interests of our wider stakeholders including clients, employees, external service providers, regulators and society as a whole.
Certain decisions can only be taken by the Board, including deciding on the Groups overall strategy, significant new business activities and the strategy for management of the Groups investment capital.
These are contained in the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board, which can be found Executive Directors 18% 0-3 years 27% on the Companys Investor Relations website, schroders.
Non-independent 27% 3-6 years 27% The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board committees, non-executive Directors 6-9 years 19% Independent non- 55% notably the Nominations Committee, Audit and Risk Committee, and 9 years 27% executive Directors the Remuneration Committee.
The minutes of committee meetings are made available to all Directors.
At each Board meeting, the Chairman of each committee provides the Board with an update of The Board believes that it operates most effectively with an appropriate balance of executive Directors, independent nonthe work currently being carried out by the committee they chair.
Membership of the Committees is detailed in each committee report.
executive Directors and Directors who have a connection with the Companys principal shareholder group.
No individual or group of The committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys Investor Relations website.
individuals is in a position to dominate the Boards decision-making.
During the year, the Board established a Disclosure Committee, The Nominations Committee report contains more detail on our approach to Board Composition.
Biographies of each of the Directors which meets as and when required to determine whether a market announcement is required in respect of any inside information.
There was one meeting of the Disclosure Committee in 2018.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Corporate governance report continued Independence Director appointments and time commitment The Board has an absolute majority of independent Directors.
The rules providing for the appointment, election, re-election and All the non-executive Directors are independent in terms of character theremoval of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles and judgement.
ofAssociation and remain unchanged from the previous year.
Michael Dobson, as former Chief Executive, is not considered The Company has decided that all Directors should retire and stand independent under the Code.
Philip Mallinckrodt is not considered for re-election annually, unless they are retiring from the Board.
independent as he is a former executive Director, a member of the Details of the Directors length of tenure are set out on page 55. principal shareholder group and has served on the Board for more Non-executive Directors letters of appointment stipulate that they than nine years.
The Nominations Committee believes that their areexpected to commit sufficient time to discharge their duties.
The judgement and experience continues to add value to the Board and Board has adopted a policy that allows executive Directors to take up the Group.
The Board will therefore recommend their re-election one external non-executive directorship.
Non-executive Directors are atthe 2019 AGM.
required to notify the Chairman before taking on any additional Bruno Schroder was not considered independent as he was a member appointments.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors continue to be of the principal shareholder group and had served on the Board for effective and demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
more than nine years at the time of his death on 20 February 2019.
For details of executive Directors service contracts, termination arrangements and non-executive Directors letters of appointment, please refer to the summary of our Directors Remmuneration policy at schroders.
Governance framework Board The Board is responsible for the management, direction and performance of the Company.
Chairman Group Chief Senior Independent Non-executive The Chairman is Executive Director SID Directors responsible for the The Group Chief Executive The SIDs role is to act as Non-executive Directors leadership of the Board, is responsible for the asounding board for the are expected to provide ensuring its effectiveness executive management Chairman, oversee the independent oversight and and setting its agenda.
He ofthe Company and its evaluation of the Chairmans constructive challenge to is responsible for creating subsidiaries.
He is performance and serve as the executive Directors on an environment for open, responsible for proposing an intermediary for the issues of strategy, robust and effective the strategy for the Group other Directors if necessary.
The Chairman and for its execution.
He is He is also available as an including key appointments isalso responsible for assisted by members of the additional point of contact and standards of conduct.
ensuring effective GMC in the delivery ofhis for shareholders and other communication with and the Boards objectives stakeholders should they shareholders and for the business.
wish to raise matters with otherstakeholders.
him rather than the Chairman or Group Chief Executive.
Nominations Committee Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Responsible for reviewing and Responsible for overseeing financial Responsible for the remuneration recommending changes to the reporting, risk management and strategy for the Group and the composition of the Board and internal controls and external audit.
remuneration policy for Directors and its Committees.
Chairman: Michael Dobson Chairman: Rhian Davies Chairman: Nichola Pease See page 60 for the See page 62 for the See page 68 for the Committee Report.
Group Management Committee The GMC comprises the senior management team and is the principal advisory committee to the Group Chief Executive.
Group Capital Committee Group Risk Committee Assists the Chief Financial Officer in the deployment of Assists the Chief Financial Officer in discharging his operating, seed, co-investment and investment capital.
responsibilities in respect of risk and controls.
56 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Sir Damon Buffini and Rakhi Goss-Custard were provided with Key areas of focus during the year committee-specific briefings following their respective appointments to the Remuneration Committee and Audit and Risk Committee.
At each scheduled Board meeting the Board discusses reports from the Group Chief Executive on the performance During the year, the induction process has been reviewed and of the business, the Chief Financial Officer on financial updated and tailored to ensure it remains appropriate for the needs performance, the Company Secretary on governance of newly appointed directors.
developments, and, where relevant, a report from each of The Board believes that the ongoing development and briefing the Board Committees.
In addition to these regular matters, specific areas of focus by the Board during 2018 included: ofDirectors is an important aspect of the Boards agenda.
Briefing sessions are arranged each year which, during 2018, included presentations on our Fixed Income business, our acquisition of Adveq Meeting in 2017, our investment in Benchmark Capital in 2016 and the findings dates Key areas considered from the investor perceptions study.
Members of the Board February Equities strategy Committees also receive regular updates on technical developments Potential acquisitions atscheduled Committee meetings.
Technology strategy Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2017 Board evaluation external anddividendproposal The Board supported an externally facilitated evaluation in 2017, one year earlier than required by the Code.
Independent Board Evaluation May Strategic update, including clients, were selected to facilitate the evaluation.
They have no other solutions, competitors and risks, and the connection with the Company.
evolution of the core business Investing for growth The 2017 Board evaluation identified a number of recommendations China strategy to maintain and improve the Boards effectiveness: Brexit July Corporate responsibility strategy Recommendations Actions taken progress Front office technology platform Strategic partnership with LBG Having Board update During 2018 there were four Board Halfyear results and dividend proposal calls between Board calls: in January, April, October and ICAAP and ILAAP meetings December.
These calls are used to September Strategic partnership with LBG supplement the formal Board Group Recovery Plan and meeting programme and provide an ResolutionPack additional avenue for communication.
Fixed income strategy Acquisition integration Reviewing recent The review of acquisitions and their November Europe strategy acquisitions more integration into the Group has been People strategy systematically incorporated into the agenda for the Wind down plan Board and Board briefings, with Remuneration strategy update papers measuring both 2019 budget integration and continued alignment with strategic goals.
Standardising Board The Company has worked with Throughout the year, the Board continued to focus on the development papers further Board Intelligence to further refine of our overall strategy for the Group and the key individual drivers of Board paper standards and growth over the next five years.
As part of this, theBoard had a two-day structures.
This has led to a off-site strategy meeting in May.
Particular focus was given to the well-integrated board paper process competitive environment, our clients and their needs, the evolution that has improved the flow and ofour core business, investing for growth opportunities, our capital quality of information to the Board strategy and an assessment of our strategic risks.
and its Committees to facilitate There was an unscheduled Board meeting in April 2018 to approve better decision making.
theacquisition of Algonquin Management Partners S. A.
Developing the A review of the induction process Board induction and training induction process against market practice has been The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman and Group further to help new undertaken during the year, with Chief Executive in providing a personalised induction programme to Directors, in particular additional briefing sessions made all new Directors.
This helps to familiarise them with their duties and those from outside the available to new Directors in the Groups culture and values, strategy, business model, businesses, financial services sector specialist areas.
The review has also operations, risks and governance arrangements.
considered how ongoing briefings and information can be made more Following Sir Damon Buffinis appointment in February 2018, a readily available.
comprehensive induction programme was developed and is ongoing.
The induction process involved: Having more informal Board dinners are held the evening Meeting all members of the GMC to gain an insight into and an time outside of Board before most Board meetings.
At the understanding of the opportunities and challenges facing their meetings to strengthen May offsite meeting the Board was areaof responsibility Board relationships joined by members of the GMC for parts of the formal strategy One-to-one meetings with other senior management across the discussion and also for the informal Company, including from the first, second and third lines of networking and Board dinner.
defence, to understand the Groups internal control and risk management framework Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Corporate governance report continued 2018 Board evaluation Shareholder engagement The 2018 Board evaluation was undertaken internally.
The Chairman The Group operates a complete investor relations programme.
and Company Secretary met with each Director to discuss a number In 2018, the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer ofquestions regarding the effectiveness of the Board, its principal participated in investor roadshows in the UK and North America.
The overall conclusion was that They met with a number of our major shareholders in both share the Board was effective and focussed on the right things.
The classes to discuss our recent results and strategy for driving future executive team was felt to be executing the strategy well.
Investor Relations also led roadshows in continental Europe committees were seen as effective in discharging their responsibilities.
and Schroders was represented at a number of industry conferences.
Succession planning had been handled well.
In addition to strategy, The Group is also planning a second capital markets day for the areas for focus included broadening and deepening the noninvestor community in the first half of 2019, following the first executives knowledge of the industry and our business outside the eventin 2017. formal Board meetings and providing further opportunities for To ensure that the Board developed and maintained an non-executive Directors to meet with management following the understanding of the views of our major shareholders, we successful offsite with the GMC in 2018. commissioned an independent investor perception study in 2018.
As part of the evaluation process, Directors gave feedback on their A third party provider conducted in-depth interviews with 18 of the colleagues and the Chairman wrote to each Director with a summary.
Companys largest shareholders in the UK, North America and Asia Ian King led the evaluation of the Chairmans performance through a Pacific.
Their interviews covered shareholders views on the Groups discussion with the whole Board.
He then provided the Chairman with results, strategy, future prospects, competitive positioning and quality a summary of the feedback.
Their findings were presented to the GMC andthe Board.
Priorities for 2019 The primary means of communicating with shareholders is through In light of the recommendations of the 2018 evaluation and following the Annual General Meeting, the Annual Report and Accounts, the 2019 process, the Board agreed a set of high-level objectives for half-year results and related presentations.
All of these are available 2019 based on the core responsibility of delivering strong financial on the Companys website and the Annual Report and Accounts is performance.
These include: posted to all shareholders who elect to receive it.
The Groups website Our growth strategy for all parts of the business also contains information on thebusiness of the Company, Corporate Governance, all regulatory announcements, key dates in the financial Talent development and succession plans calendar and other important shareholder information.
Capital The AGM is an opportunity to meet with shareholders, hear their Major risks to our strategy views and answer their questions about the Group and its business.
Culture, employee engagement and compensation Allresolutions are voted on by way of a poll.
This allows the Company More opportunities to meet with senior management to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
All resolutions are voted on separately and the final voting Group Company Secretary results are published as soon as practicable after the meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Together with the rest of the Board, the Chairmen of the Audit and Company Secretary and can arrange through him to receive Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees will be present professional advice independently of the Company, at the toanswer questions.
The 2019 AGM is to be held on Thursday Companys expense.
2 May 2019 at 11.30 a. m. Directors duties compliance with s172 of the Companies Act2006 Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to promote the success of the company for the benefit of the members as a whole and in doing so have regard to the interests of stakeholders including clients, employees, suppliers, regulators and the wider society in which it operates.
On page 59, we have set out how we have engaged with our key stakeholders and how the Board has considered their interests duringthe year.
58 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Stakeholder interests Stakeholders Why they are important How we engage and consider their interests Clients Clients are the central focus The client service teams build lasting relationships with current and potential clients ofour business.
The Groups to develop a clear view of client objectives and how these will evolve.
resilience and ongoing success A strategic goal of the Group is to get closer to the ultimate investor in our products, is built upon an ability to which was a key consideration of the strategic partnership with LBG.
We view the understand clients needs and strategic partnership as highly beneficial for the Groups clients and investors in respond to them.
usto anticipate how these needs A key driver behind the Boards consideration of the acquisition of Algonquin, in April See page 13 will evolve and to construct 2018, was the ability to integrate this into the existing private assets business and products that meet their increase the product range available to clients.
financial goals and build futureprosperity.
Society We recognise the responsibility We aim for high standards of governance across the Group.
As an asset manager, we have to wider society and wefrequently engage with companies on environmental, societal and corporate other key stakeholders.
Schroders is a principle-led The Board agreed the Groups approach to corporate responsibility, with a Corporate business and we believe that Responsibility Committee established with key stakeholders from our businesses.
demanding high levels of This Committee reports to the Board on the Groups Corporate Responsibility corporate responsibility is the strategy and reporting.
See page 35. right thing to do.
We are proud to support the communities in which we operate and have a long history of contributing through donations and employee time.
The Board receives anupdate on the Groups activities in corporate responsibility, which have four pillars: clients, people, community and the environment.
External Service We rely on the use of external We engage pro-actively with our external service partners and have a supplier code Partners service partners to supplement of conduct that sets out the high standards and behaviours we expect from them.
our own infrastructure The Code requires that the prohibition of forced labour and human trafficking, benefiting from the expertise together with the ethical and responsible sourcing of goods or services, are our partners provide.
This incorporated into the sourcing governance and execution processes of our suppliers.
enables access to lower costs The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the Groups material outsource providers forservice delivery.
annually to ensure that the strategy for the use of outsourced suppliers remains consistent with our objective of using service partners to add value to supplement See page 36. our own infrastructure.
The oversight of outsource service providers and the transition to the new front office technology platform has been a key area of focus for both the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board in 2018 and will continue to be in 2019.
People Our people are central to the We engage through a variety of channels including management briefings, videos, ongoing success of the business.
an internal magazine and presentations by the Group Chief Executive to discuss We are proud of our reputation progress made by the business, together with future objectives and challenges.
We as an employer of choice.
Our also conduct an annual employee opinion survey and have invested in our corporate people strategy aims to develop communications to help employees understand and deliver our strategic objectives.
an agile workforce as we The Board considers the Groups employees to be an important stakeholder and the continue to attract, retain, consideration of their interests forms part of many Board discussions.
The Board See page 31. develop and motivate the right discussed the results of the 2018 employee opinion survey and agreed an action plan people for our current and to address the issues raised.
Ian King, the SID, is the designated non-executive director responsible for gathering workforce feedback, a key requirement of the 2018 Code.
As part of this, Ian will attend global employee forum meetings to hear directly from employees on the issues that concern them.
Shareholders We rely on the support and The Board considered the full-year and half-year results.
Both the Group Chief engagement of our Executive and Chief Financial Officer presented them to investors.
shareholders to deliver our The Board answered questions around strategy and our impact on society at strategic objectives and grow the2018 AGM.
Our shareholder Outside of results presentations, meetings are held with investors throughout the base supports the long-term year, with engagement from both executive and non-executive directors.
approach we take in the We will hold a capital markets day in 2019 to give investors the opportunity to better See page 21 management of our business.
understand our strategy and engage with senior management.
We commissioned an independent investor perception study.
Through interviews with a number of major shareholders, we gathered their views on the Groups strategy, results and competitive position.
The findings were presented to the Board.
Regulators As a global business, we build We regularly engage with regulators and policymakers to ensure that our business positive relationships with our understands and contributes to evolving regulatory requirements.
Senior regulators around the world.
management hold regular meetings to foster good working relationships.
Regulators provide key oversight The Audit and Risk Committee receives regular reports from these meetings that of how we run our business.
Our cover the Groups regulatory processes and procedures and its relationship with clients best interests are served regulators around the world.
The reports also outline the material changes in the by our working constructively regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
In 2018, these included the See page 38 with regulators.
Groups implementation of GDPR, MiFID II, PRIIPs and the possible impacts of Brexit.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59
