| 34 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has written terms of reference the Committee has not identified, nor been advised which are shown on the Companys website.
Its duties of, any material failings or weaknesses.
Therefore a include risk assessment: reviewing internal controls, confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not the Companys accounting policies and Financial been considered appropriate.
Statements prior to their release: and the Companys procedures on whistleblowing.
The Committee is The Committee and management also monitor also responsible for all aspects of the Companys the controls and risk management of Maitland and relationship with its external auditor including: Northern Trust.
Maitland provide company secretarial, administration and accounting services to the Company and Northern Trust provide custody and reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the annual depositary services.
audit: the auditors remuneration: The Committee recognises that such systems can only provide reasonable, but not guaranteed, assurance the terms of engagement: and against material misstatement or loss.
the level of non-audit work, if any, carried out by the auditor.
Significant issues The Committee considers the risks that may have an Annual Report impact on the Companys Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure it is fair, balanced and The valuation and ownership of the Companys understandable.
Investments are valued in accordance with the accounting policy on page 51.
Internal controls The prices of all investments are agreed by Maitland The Company does not have an internal audit function with an independent source and the ownership of as the Audit Committee believes that the Companys each investment agreed through confirmation received straightforward structure and small number of from the Companys independent global custodian, employees do not warrant such a function.
reviewed by the Committee annually.
The incomplete or inaccurate recognition of income The Committee is responsible for ensuring that in the Financial Statements are also risks.
Internal the Company has in place an effective system of control systems are in place to ensure income is fully internal controls designed to maintain the integrity of accounted for.
The Board is provided with information accounting records and to safeguard the Companys on the Companys income account at each meeting.
The Committee has applied the UK Corporate Governance Code by establishing a continuous Auditor process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Assessment significant risks the Company faces.
The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, was appointed in 2002.
The Committee reviews annually the In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance appointment of the auditor, the services provided Code, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the and the related fees.
The Committee is aware that Companys system of internal controls at six-monthly EU regulations in relation to statutory audits of EU intervals.
listed companies will require the Company to change its audit firm by 2023.
The corporate governance The Committees monitoring covers all controls, provisions relating to audit tenure have been reviewed including financial, operational and compliance and the Committee is of the opinion there is no need controls and risk management.
It is based principally to conduct a competitive tender at the present time.
on reviewing reports from management and The Board is however considering a competitive considering whether significant risks are identified, tender for the audit of the financial year commencing evaluated, managed and controlled, and whether 1 November 2019.
This is due to the aforementioned any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied requirement to change audit firm by 2023 and also the or require more extensive monitoring.
During the audit partner rotation requirements meaning the next course of its review of the system of internal controls, 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 34 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 35 Report of the Audit Committee continued financial year will be the final year the current audit Disclosure of information to auditor partner will be leading the audit.
It is the Companys policy to allow the auditor unlimited access to its records.
The Directors confirm that, so The fees for audit and non-audit services were far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit 31,500 2017: 34,000 and 16,200 2017: information of which the Companys auditor is unaware 21,950, respectively.
Non-audit services include: tax and they have taken all the steps which they should compliance 10,500 and assurance services 5,700. have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish All costs for non-audit services are considered to be that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
appropriate relative to fees paid for audit services.
An This confirmation is given and should be interpreted engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee to Companies Act 2006. ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditor is not compromised by the provision of nonaudit services.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Larger Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Karyn Lamont Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilites Order Chair of the Audit Committee 2014.
7 December 2018 The Audit Committee reviews and approves any nonaudit services provided by the auditor and assesses the impact of any non-audit work on the ability of the auditor to remain independent.
Partner rotation The audit partner responsible for the audit is rotated every five years.
Andrew Partridge, the current audit partner, was appointed in 2015.
Independence The Committee has satisfied itself of the continuing independence of Deloitte LLP.
The Committee confirms the level of non-audit work undertaken does not compromise independence.
Re-appointment of auditor A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor, and to authorise the Directors to fix its remuneration, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
