| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 27 Corporate Governance Report relationships with the Company or its employees which Introduction might compromise this independence.
The Board has The Board is committed to implementing high levels noted Russell Napiers tenure of over nine years in this of corporate governance within the Company in context.
order to safeguard the interests of its shareholders, to manage the risks that the Company faces and to ensure Board committees the efficient and effective running of the Company.
The Board has established three committees: Audit, Sound governance is at the heart of the Boards efforts Remuneration and Nomination.
Each of the committees to ensure that the Company continues to meet its has written terms of reference which are reviewed at investment objective.
The following statement reports least annually and clearly define their responsibilities on how the Board, supported by the committees that and duties.
The terms of reference for these it has established, has continued to achieve these aims committees are available on the Companys website over the course of the year.
co. uk Audit Committee Statement of compliance The Audit Committee comprises the whole Board and The Board has reviewed the principles set out in the is chaired by Karyn Lamont.
It has reviewed the matters UK Corporate Governance Code revised 2014, which within its terms of reference and reports as follows: can be found at www.
uk and the Association of it has approved the Financial Statements for the Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance year to 31 October 2018: by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys for Investment Companies published in July 2016, internal controls and risk management: both of which can be found at www.
co. uk The it has reviewed the need for a separate internal Board has not adopted early the revised UK Corporate audit function: Governance Code published in July 2018, which it has recommended to the Board that a resolution first applies to the Company for its financial year be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment commencing 1 November 2019. of the external auditor and it has considered the The Board believes that the way the Company is proposed terms of their engagement: governed is consistent with the principles of the UK it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the Corporate Governance Code and that the Company external auditor and agreed that any non-audit has complied with its provisions, except that: services provided by the auditor must be approved there is no senior independent director: by the Audit Committee in advance: the Chairman is a member of the Audit Committee: it has satisfied itself that the Strategic Report is and consistent with the Financial Statements: and evaluation of the Board has not been externally it has reviewed the Companys procedures for facilitated.
The Board considers that, as all Directors are Further details are set out in the Report of the Audit independent and non-executive, there is no Committee on pages 34 and 35. compelling case for appointing a senior independent Remuneration Committee director.
The Board further considers that the Chairman The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee is independent in character and judgement and, to recommend pay and conditions for the Board and therefore, that there is no reason for James Will not employees.
The Committee is chaired by Jane Lewis.
to be a member of the Audit Committee.
Although Further details of Directors remuneration are included the evaluation of the Board has not been externally in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 and facilitated during the current year, the Board intends 37. to engage an external consultant to undertake this The Company aims to provide levels of employee process during the year to 31 October 2019. remuneration which reward responsibility and achievement and are comparable with other fund Directors independence management organisations operating in Scotland.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and Remuneration is reviewed annually.
experience are considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on Every employee is entitled to a salary and other the overall length of service of any of the Companys benefits including a contributory pension scheme.
In addition, there is a discretionary performance-related Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
For all staff, bonuses payable The Board believes that each Director is independent depend, inter alia, on individual performance and the in character and judgement and that there are no 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 27 07 12 2018 14:58 | 28 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Report continued Companys short and medium term performance in accounting and financial controls, dividends and both absolute and relative terms.
Any other metrics that announcements, capital structure including share are considered appropriate may be taken into account.
buybacks, gearing and major contracts.
The Board has appointed the Companys wholly-owned Nomination Committee subsidiary, S. I. T. Savings Limited, as its Alternative There is a Nomination Committee comprising the Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The Committee is chaired by James Will.
management of the Company is delegated to the The Committee meets at least annually to review the Companys executive management, which reports structure, size and composition of the Board.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for Prior to each Board meeting, Directors are provided nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates with a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The information on the Companys transactions, financial Committee will evaluate the skills, experience, position and performance.
independence, knowledge and diversity of the Board and, subject to the aforementioned, prepare a On an annual basis the Board normally meet five times, description of the role and capabilities required to fulfil the Audit Committee three times, the Remuneration the appointment.
Committee twice and the Nomination Committee at least once.
Attendance at the scheduled and additional When Board positions become available as a result of meetings throughout the year is shown in the table retirement or resignation, the Committee will ensure below.
that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
In order to recruit relevant candidates, the identification Board and Directors performance appraisal of such candidates may be carried out in conjunction The performance of each Director was assessed and with the Board by an independent firm of consultants.
If appraised by the Nomination Committee during such a process is not used, the Committee will disclose the year.
The Chairmans performance was assessed the reasons in the Corporate Governance Report or and appraised in his absence by the other Directors.
the Directors Report in the next Annual Report and The review and assessment by the Nomination Accounts.
Committee of each Directors performance as well as the performance of the Board as a whole and of The Committee will consider candidates on merit and its committees followed completion by each of the against objective criteria having regard to the benefits Directors of a written questionnaire.
The appraisals and of diversity, including gender.
assessments considered, amongst other criteria, the Hamish Buchan retired from the Board at the AGM held balance of skills of the Board, training and development on 2 February 2018.
There is no current intention to requirements, the contribution of individual Directors replace him as the Board considers that its membership and the overall effectiveness of the Board and its will continue to ensure that the appropriate balance of committees.
skills, experience, independence and knowledge will Following this process it was concluded that the be achieved.
performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board Board and committee meetings and its committees continues to be effective and that The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved each Director and the Chairman remain committed to for the Board which includes investment strategy, the Company.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended James Will 5 5 4 4 2 2 1 1 Russell Napier 5 5 4 4 2 2 1 1 Jane Lewis 5 5 4 4 2 2 1 1 Mick Brewis 5 5 4 4 2 2 1 1 Karyn Lamont 5 5 4 4 2 2 1 1 Hamish Buchan retired 2 February 2018 1 1 1 1 1 1 n a n a In addition to the above meetings, the Board met on three occasions via teleconference.
One such meeting was to discuss matters relating to the Companys defined benefit pension scheme.
As trustees of the scheme, Russell Napier and Karyn Lamont declared a conflict of interest and absented themselves from the meeting.
The other two meetings were ad-hoc, for one of which Jane Lewis tendered apologies.
All other Directors attended all three meetings, except Hamish Buchan who had previously retired from the Board.
indd 28 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 29 Corporate Governance Report continued Appointment and re-election of Directors Diversity policy The Companys policy on the appointment of Directors The Company recognises the need to consider the is shown on the Companys website, diversity of its staff and its Board of Directors.
co. uk general principle, the Company will show no bias for age, gender, race, sexual orientation, marital status, New Directors receive an induction from the religion, nationality, ethnic or national origins, or Companys Manager and the Company Secretary on disability in considering the appointment of staff or joining the Board, and all Directors will receive other Board members and will ensure appointments are relevant training as necessary.
made on the basis of merit against objective criteria.
All Directors are appointed for initial three year terms, The structure, size and composition of the Board renewable every three years, subject to the Companys of Directors are reviewed at least annually by the policy for all Directors to stand for re-election annually.
Nomination Committee ensuring an appropriate Each of the Directors has made a valuable and effective balance of skills, experience, independence and contribution to the Company and the Board therefore knowledge.
In considering new appointments to recommends that shareholders vote in favour of their the Board, the Committee recognises the benefits re-election.
of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for Committee will consider both male and female inspection at the AGM.
candidates and ensure appointments are made on the basis of merit against objective criteria.
As all The Companys Articles of Association provide that appointments will be based on merit and in view of the any Director or other officer of the Company may be small size of the Board, the Board does not consider it indemnified out of the assets of the Company against appropriate to set diversity targets.
any liability incurred by him or her as a Director or other officer of the Company to the extent permitted The Board currently consists of three male and two by law.
The Company entered into deeds of indemnity female Directors.
in favour of each Director other than Karyn Lamont on 26 August 2016 and in favour of Karyn Lamont on Conflicts of interest her appointment.
The deeds cover any liabilities that The Companies Act 2006 requires that a director of a may be incurred by a Director in respect of any act or company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, omission alleged or otherwise in the exercise of his or or might have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, her powers or in respect of his or her duties in relation with the interests of the company.
Each Director to the Company including any liabilities arising from submits a list of potential conflicts prior to each negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The other Board members consider these Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities and recommend whether or not each potential conflict to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any should be authorised.
costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted or civil proceedings Going concern brought by the Company in which judgement is given The accounts of the Company have been prepared against him her.
In addition, the indemnity does not on a going concern basis.
It is the opinion of the apply to any liability to the extent that it is recovered Directors that, as most of the Companys assets from another person pursuant to the Directors' and are readily realisable and exceed its liabilities, officers' liability insurance policy which is maintained it is expected that the Company will continue in by the Company or otherwise.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The viability statement, under which the Directors assess The Board has direct access to the advice and services the prospects of the Company over a longer period, is of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for contained on page 16. ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
The Internal controls and risk management Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible timely delivery of information and reports to the Board for the Companys systems of internal control and and for compliance with the Companys statutory for reviewing their effectiveness on an annual basis.
A process has been implemented for identifying, There is a procedure for Directors to seek independent evaluating and managing risks faced by the Company.
professional advice at the expense of the Company.
indd 29 07 12 2018 14:58 | 30 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Report continued This process has been in place throughout the year ended 31 October 2018 and up to the date that the Financial Statements were approved.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objective.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board considers the following as the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company: Principal risks Mitigation Strategic Risks in relation to the ongoing attractiveness and The Board considers strategy and the business model sustainability of the Companys investment objective on a regular basis, including the discount level and the placing pressure on the share price discount to net marketing plans for the business.
Investment portfolio and performance The holding of securities and investing activities Company performance is monitored at each Board involve certain inherent risks, principally in relation to meeting, including investment performance.
The Manager seeks to maintain a diversified portfolio.
A contrarian investment approach is a distinctive style The contrarian investment approach is explained in our that may deviate from comparator indices and peer shareholder communications and through meetings group performance over discrete periods.
with media and the investor community.
Financial The Companys normal business activities are exposed The Company holds a portfolio which is well diversified to market risk including market price risk, foreign across industrial and geographical areas.
Most assets currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk and are held in listed securities and are therefore readily credit risk.
All debenture stocks and secured bonds are at fixed rates.
Only approved counterparties are used and within agreed limits.
Operational Failure of the Companys or third party service The Company monitors the performance of its service providers systems could result in a misappropriation providers, whether internal S. I. T Savings Limited is the of assets or an inability to report to shareholders.
There Companys AIFM or external custody and depositary, could be a possible impact on reputation if any such company secretarial, administration and accounting events were to occur.
The Company is also exposed services through regular meetings and review of to the operational risk that one or more of its service available internal control reports.
providers may not provide the required level of service.
The threat of cyber attack has become more prevalent across all sectors.
Tax, legal and regulatory The Company employs internal and external resource The Company is required to comply with a range of to ensure compliance with relevant legislation and legislation and regulation and may be impacted by regulation and the Board receives periodic reports on changes in the external environment.
any issues and potential changes.
These and other risks facing the Company, including Brexit, are reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee and the Board.
As a global investment trust with a diversified portfolio of international equities, it is unlikely that the Companys business model will be adversely impacted as a direct result of Brexit.
Further information on risks is detailed in note 16 to the accounts on page 62.
indd 30 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 31 Corporate Governance Report continued Relations with shareholders The Companys maximum limits and actual leverage The Company recognises the value of good levels are shown below: communication with its shareholders.
Management Gross Commitment Leverage exposure method method meets regularly with private client stockbrokers, wealth managers and the Companys major institutional Maximum limit AIFM 200% 200% shareholders.
The Board receives regular briefings from Maximum limit Board 20% 20% the Companys broker.
Annual and Interim Reports and newsletters are sent to shareholders during the year Actual at 31 October 2018 0% 12% and are posted on the Companys website.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company is the The Companys 131st AGM will be held at The Royal main forum at which shareholders can ask questions College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, of the Board and management.
All shareholders Edinburgh, EH2 1JQ on Thursday 7 February 2019 at are encouraged to attend the AGM and to vote on 10.30am.
the resolutions which are contained in the Notice of Meeting on page 74 and which is posted to The Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are all in the best interests of the Company shareholders at least 21 days prior to the meeting.
and of the shareholders as a whole and recommends Shareholders who cannot attend the AGM are that shareholders vote in favour of them.
encouraged to vote by proxy on the resolutions.
Proxy voting figures are given after each resolution has Resolutions 1 to 10 are self-explanatory.
been voted on and are published after the end of the Resolution 11 - Renewal of authority to purchase shares meeting.
This resolution, set out in the Notice of AGM on page 74, Any shareholder who wishes to ask a question at seeks to renew the authority to purchase shares until 7 another time should write to the Chairman at 6 Albyn May 2020.
The principal reasons for such purchases are Place, Edinburgh EH2 4NL.
to enhance the NAV of the shares by purchasing shares for cancellation at prices which, after allowing for costs, Corporate governance and stewardship improve the NAV for remaining shareholders and to Management reviews resolutions put to general allow implementation of the Companys discount control meetings of the companies in which the Company policy.
The maximum number of shares which may be invests and, wherever practicable, will cast its vote, purchased pursuant to this authority shall be 11,553,479 usually by proxy.
In voting on its shareholdings, or, if less, 14.99% of the aggregate issued capital of the the Company will normally support management.
Company on the date of passing of the resolution.
The Company votes against resolutions which are Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the considered to damage shareholders rights or maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the economic interests.
authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the average market value of a share for the five business Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM days immediately preceding the date of purchase and Directive Leverage ii the higher price of the last independent trade and the For the purposes of the AIFM Directive, leverage highest current independent bid.
The minimum price is any method which increases the Companys which may be paid is 25p per share.
exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a percentage of Resolution 12 - Adoption of new Articles of Association the Companys exposure to its net asset value and is This resolution, set out in the Notice of AGM on page 74, calculated on a gross and commitment method.
seeks to adopt new Articles of Association.
The principal changes proposed to be introduced in the new Articles Under the gross method, exposure represents the of Association and their effect, are set out below.
sum of the Companys positions after deduction of cash balances, without taking account of any hedging Distributions out of capital or netting arrangements.
"Under the commitment The principal change that the Board is proposing to method, exposure is calculated without the deduction make to the Company's current Articles of Association of cash balances and after certain hedging and netting the ""Existing Articles"" relates to the Company's ability positions are offset against each other."
to distribute its capital profits.
Certain statutory rules governing investment trusts and companies were The leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved amended in 2012.
In particular, the rule which prohibited by the Board.
The AIFM is also required to comply with an investment trust from distributing any surplus arising the gearing parameters set by the Board in relation to from the realisation of its investments was repealed.
indd 31 07 12 2018 14:58 | 32 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Report continued The Regulations also include the automatic exchange of As noted in the Chairman's statement, in the light of information regimes being brought in under the auspices the amended rules, the Board no longer considers it of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and appropriate for the Existing Articles to contain such a Development and the European Union.
Accordingly, the Board is seeking authority Articles have therefore also been amended in order at the AGM to amend the Existing Articles to allow the to provide the Company with the ability to require Company to distribute capital profits.
The proposed shareholders to co-operate in respect of these broader Articles therefore reflect this change and remove all common reporting obligations.
references to the prohibition of the distribution of capital profits by way of dividend.
"The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive ""AIFMD"" The Board believes that the removal of this restriction will give the Company greater flexibility in the long term The Board is also proposing to include provisions in the as it will enable the Company to make distributions from new Articles in relation to the AIFMD."
For example the any surplus arising from the realisation of any investment.
Articles will now specifically provide that the NAV of the However, the Board has no intention of exercising this Company shall be calculated at least annually and the authority at the current time.
valuation of the Company's assets shall be performed in accordance with prevailing accounting standards.
However, Directors aggregate remuneration limit this amendment will have no bearing on current practice The Board is taking the opportunity to increase the and simply articulates the minimum requirements of the aggregate limit of remuneration that the Directors AIFMD Regulations.
may receive per annum from, in aggregate, 250,000 Minor amendments to 300,000.
The increase in the aggregate limit of The Board is also taking the opportunity to propose some Directors remuneration provides additional flexibility additional minor amendments to the Existing Articles over the number of Directors on the Board and ensures including the removal of the Directors shareholding that the Company continues to have the ability to pay qualification and the Chairman's casting vote provision Directors fees in line with the market in the future.
This as well as the more out-of-date provisions relating to reflects the remuneration policy of the Board as set out the conversion and transfer of stock and the rights of on page 36. stockholders.
International tax regimes requiring the exchange of Resolutions 11 and 12 each will be proposed as a special information and the common reporting standards resolution that requires to be passed by a three-quarters The Board is also proposing to include provisions in the majority of votes cast at the AGM.
new Articles to provide the Company with the ability to require shareholders to co-operate in respect of the Carbon emissions exchange of information to comply with the Company's The Companys carbon emissions result predominantly international tax reporting obligations.
from its consumption of electricity at its single office.
"Using Defra DECCs GHG conversion factors for company The Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act 2010 reporting 2015, emissions for the year to October 2018 of the United States of America commonly known were 27.7 tonnes of CO e 2017: 28.1 tonnes CO e. This as the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act and all 2 2 equates to 0.08 tonnes of CO e 2017: 0.07 tonnes of associated regulations and official guidance ""FATCA"" 2 CO e per square metre."
imposes a system of information reporting on certain 2 entities including foreign financial institutions such The Directors Report on pages 26 to 37, which includes as the Company following the enactment of the UK the Responsibility Statement, the Corporate Governance International Tax Compliance United States of America Report, the Report of the Audit Committee and the Regulations 2013 on 1 September 2013.
These Directors Remuneration Report, and the Going concern regulations have now been replaced by the International statement on page 29, have been approved by the Board.
"Tax Compliance Regulations 2015 the ""Regulations""."
The Strategic Report on pages 14 to 17 includes The Articles provide the Company with the ability to information relating to: Dividends, Share capital and require shareholders to co-operate with it in ensuring Discount control policy including share buybacks.
that the Company is able to comply with its obligations There have been no significant post-balance sheet events.
under the Regulations in order to avoid being deemed By order of the Board.
"to be a ""Nonparticipating Financial Institution"" for the purposes of FATCA and consequently having to pay withholding tax to the IRS."
The Articles also ensure that the Company will not be liable for any monies that become subject to a deduction or withholding relating to Maitland Administration Services Scotland Limited FATCA, as such liability would be to the detriment of the Company Secretary Company's shareholders as a whole.
indd 32 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 33 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
