Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek the principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Code, which can be found at www.
uk and the principles In accordance with the Code all the Directors will retire at each of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code of Annual General Meeting and, if appropriate, offer themselves for Corporate Governance were applied throughout the financial re-election.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for Independence of Directors investment companies and can be found at www.
All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent Compliance of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship that The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code Professor JA Kay and FC McBain have served on the Board except that the Chairman of the Board was a member of the for more than nine years.
The Directors recognise the value of Audit Committee until she stood down from the Audit Committee progressive refreshing of, and succession planning for, company on 25 January 2018.
The Company was in compliance with the boards and the Boards composition is reviewed annually.
The relevant provisions of the Code for the remainder of the year Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily under review.
The Code includes provisions relating to the role compromise the independence or contribution of directors of of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the an investment trust company, where continuity and experience need for an internal audit function.
Given that the Company is can be a benefit to the Board.
The Board concurs with the view an externally managed investment trust, the Board considers expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not these provisions are not relevant to the Company the need for be prevented from being considered as independent.
an internal audit function specific to the Company has been Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has concluded addressed on page 35. that, notwithstanding their length of service, Professor JA Kay and The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with FC McBain continue to demonstrate independence of character the recommendations of the AIC Code.
and judgement and their skill and experience are a benefit to the Board.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
The Meetings Board appoints the Managers and Secretaries and approves the There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed terms of the investment management agreement.
It has a number to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, investment investment policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, share buy back budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
policy, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to policy.
A separate meeting devoted to strategy is held each year.
The table below shows the The Board also reviews the financial statements, investment attendance record for the core Board and Committee Meetings transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely held during the year various additional meetings were also held.
information is provided to the Board to enable the Board to function The Annual General Meeting was attended by all Directors serving effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Following the retirement of Mr JPHS Scott at the Annual General Directors Attendance at Meetings Meeting last year, the Board comprises five Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Number of meetings 6 2 1 executive responsibility for investment management has been Fiona McBain 6 2 1 delegated to the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager Justin Dowley 6 2 1 AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited and, in the context of a Board Professor John Kay 6 2 1 comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Professor JA Kay is the Senior Independent Director.
Professor Patrick Maxwell 6 2 1 John Scott The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and retired 29 June 2017 2 1 experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership Dr Paola Subacchi 6 2 1 and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on Nomination Committee pages 26 and 27.
The Nomination Committee consists of the independent nonThere is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at Appointments such other times as may be required.
The Committee has written terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request.
32 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Board appraisal, Board independence, succession planning and Audit Committee training.
The Committee also considers whether Directors should The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 35 and 36. be recommended for re-election by shareholders.
The Committee Internal Controls and Risk Management is responsible for considering Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board on The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives the benefits of diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing new directors is to identify the candidate with the best range and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
of skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board therefore does not consider it appropriate to set diversity The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for targets or apply a diversity policy.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in accordance with the FRC guidance Guidance Board Composition on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and The Board reviewed its composition during the year, with Business Reporting issued in September 2014. regard to the depth and breadth of experience.
The Board has determined that the five Directors continue to provide sufficient The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard resource at present.
the Companys assets and to manage its affairs properly, The Committees terms of reference are available on request from including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance the Company and on the Companys pages of the Managers controls, have been delegated to the Managers and Secretaries.
The Board oversees the functions delegated to the Managers Performance Evaluation and Secretaries and the controls managed by the AIFM in The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers of the Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its Directive as detailed below.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit Committees.
Prior to the meeting each Director considered and Compliance Departments and the AIFMs permanent risk an evaluation form which they discussed individually with the function provide the Audit Committee with regular reports on Chairman.
The appraisal of the Chairman was led by Professor their monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for these JA Kay.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst departments are defined and formalised within a service level other criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, the contribution agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its of individual Directors, the overall competency and effectiveness system of internal controls which is documented within an internal of the Board and its Committees and the continuing professional controls report which complies with ISAE 3402 and Technical development undertaken by Directors during the year.
Release AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations made available to Third Parties.
This report Following this process it was concluded that the performance is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos Auditor and a of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees copy is submitted to the Audit Committee.
continues to be effective and each Director and the Chairman remains committed to the Company.
A report identifying the material risks faced by the Company and the key controls employed to manage these risks is reviewed by A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments the Audit Committee.
was carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly There was no increase in the overall level of the Chairmans other to the nature and extent of risks facing the Company and that commitments during the year.
they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to Lintstock, a company which assists companies with the design assess whether further action is required to manage these risks.
and execution of board evaluations, facilitated the performance evaluation in 2016.
It is intended that the evaluation will again be The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of externally facilitated in 2019. the Companys risk management and internal controls systems, which accord with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Induction and Training Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the briefings were provided during the year on industry and regulatory year under review and up to the date of this Report.
The Directors receive other training as necessary.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place Remuneration throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the date of approval of this Report.
As all the Directors are non-executive, there is no requirement for a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are To comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by Directive, BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited acted as the shareholders.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in Companys Depositary for the year under review see page 28 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 38.
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as its AIFM.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 33 Governance Report The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, Relations with Shareholders safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying The Board places great importance on communication with ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and shareholders and their representatives and report shareholders leverage requirements.
The Depositary is liable for the loss of views to the Board.
The Chairman is available to meet financial instruments held in custody.
The Depositary will ensure with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to that any delegate segregates the assets of the Company.
For communicate with any members of the Board may do so by the year under review, the custody function was delegated to writing to them at the Companys registered office, or through the The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV London Branch see page Companys brokers, Cenkos Securities and Jefferies see contact 28.
The Custodian prepares a report on its key controls and details on the back cover.
safeguards which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
The The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for reports are reviewed by Baillie Giffords Business Risk Department communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged and a summary of the key points is reported to the Audit for each resolution is announced at the meeting and published at Committee and any concerns investigated.
The notice period for the Annual The Depositary provides the Audit Committee with a report on its General Meeting is at least twenty working days.
and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Company at www.
The AIFM has established a permanent risk management function to ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures Corporate Governance and Stewardship are in place and to monitor compliance with risk limits.
The AIFM In its oversight of the Managers and the Companys other service has a risk management policy which covers the risks associated providers, the Board seeks assurances that they have due with the management of the portfolio, and the adequacy and regard to the benefits of diversity and promote these within their effectiveness of this policy is reviewed and approved at least respective organisations.
This review includes the risk management processes and systems and limits for each risk area.
The Company has given discretionary voting powers to Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions they The risk limits, which are set by the AIFM and approved by the consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests Board, take into account the objectives, strategy and risk profile and report their actions to the Board.
These limits, including leverage see page 69, are monitored and the sensitivity of the portfolio to key risks is The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors undertaken periodically as appropriate to ascertain the impact of changes in key variables in the portfolio.
Exceptions from limits when selecting and retaining investments and has asked the Managers to take these issues into account.
The Managers do monitoring and stress testing are escalated to the AIFM and reported to the Board along with remedial measures being taken.
not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement Going Concern approach whereby matters are discussed with management In accordance with The Financial Reporting Councils guidance with the aim of improving the relevant policies and management on going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors a rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going could impact long term investment returns.
statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be found on the Managers website at www.
The The Companys principal risks are market related and include Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 19 to the The Managers are signatories to the United Nations Principles for Financial Statements.
The Companys assets, the majority of which Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project and are are investments in quoted securities which are readily realisable, also members of the International Corporate Governance Network.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board.
Gearing levels and compliance with By order of the Board borrowing covenants are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Fiona McBain Accordingly, the Financial Statements have been prepared on Chairman the going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion, having 11 May 2018 assessed the principal risks and other matters set out in the Viability Statement on page 9 which assesses the prospects of the Company over a period of 10 years, that the Company will continue in operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these Financial Statements.
