Governance Report Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee consists of Mr LJ Dowley, Professor Internal Audit PH Maxwell and Dr P Subacchi.
During the year Ms FC McBain The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and and Professor JA Kay stepped down from the Committee.
The internal controls systems and the internal audit function in place members of the Committee consider that they have the requisite within the Investment Managers provide sufficient assurance that a financial skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the sound system of internal control which safeguards shareholders Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mr LJ Dowley, is a investment and the Companys assets is maintained.
The Committees authority and duties are audit function, specific to the Company is therefore considered clearly defined within its written terms of reference which are unnecessary.
available on request from the Company Secretary and at Financial Reporting www.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually.
The Committee considers that the most significant area of risk likely to impact the Financial Statements is the existence and The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as valuation of investments as they represent 99.6% of total assets.
part of the Boards performance evaluation process see page 33.
Unlisted Investments At least once a year the Committee meets with the external The Committee reviewed the Managers valuation policy for Auditor without any representative of the Manager being present.
investments in unquoted companies and approved the Main Activities of the Committee valuations of the unlisted investments following a detailed review of the valuation of each investment and relevant The Committee met formally twice during the year and KPMG challenge where appropriate.
LLP, the external Auditor, attended both meetings.
The Committee also met on a number of other occasions to consider Holdings in certificated form were agreed to confirmations specific matters, such as the valuation of unlisted investments.
from the Companys custodian and confirmations of Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit and Compliance Departments uncertificated unlisted investments were obtained from the and the AIFMs permanent risk function provided reports on their relevant investee companies.
monitoring programmes for these meetings.
Listed Investments The matters considered, monitored and reviewed by the The majority of the investments are in quoted securities and Committee during the course of the year included the following: market prices are readily available from independent external the results announcement and the Annual and Interim pricing sources.
The Committee reviewed Baillie Giffords Reports: Report on Internal Controls which details the controls in place regarding the recording and pricing of investments.
the Companys accounting policies and practices and the implementation of the Managers valuation policy for The value of all the listed investments at 31 March 2018 was investments in unquoted companies: agreed to external price sources and the holdings agreed to confirmations from the Companys Custodian or to share the regulatory changes impacting the Company: certificates.
the requirement to ensure the Annual Report and Financial The Managers and Auditor confirmed to the Committee that they Statements are fair, balanced and understandable and were not aware of any material misstatements in the context of the whether it provided the information necessary for shareholders Financial Statements as a whole and that the Financial Statements to assess the Companys performance, business model and are in accordance with applicable law and accounting standards.
strategy: the effectiveness of the Companys internal control Audit Tender environment: Following the audit tender process held in the year to 31 March 2016, the Board unanimously decided to reappoint KPMG as re-appointment, remuneration and engagement letter of the Auditor.
external Auditor: In recognition of underlying audit rotation requirements, the the policy on the engagement of the external Auditor to supply Committee intends to undertake a further tender process during non-audit services: the year to 31 March 2020 to cover the financial years ending the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external 31 March 2021 onwards.
Auditor: Internal Controls and Risk Management the need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk internal controls reports received from the Managers and management and internal controls systems as described on Custodian: and pages 33 and 34.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby year under review.
their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 35 Governance Report Although KPMG LLP, or its predecessor firms, has been Auditor External Auditor for over twenty eight years, the audit partners directors To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the responsible for the audit are rotated at least every five years in external Auditor, the Committee reviewed: accordance with professional and regulatory standards in order to a report from the Auditor describing the arrangements to protect independence and objectivity and to provide fresh identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest and challenge to the business.
Mr J Waterson was appointed audit received confirmation of their independence: and director during the year to 31 March 2017 and, following the extent of non-audit services provided by the external becoming a partner of KPMG LLP will continue as audit partner Auditor.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2018 were until the conclusion of the 2020 audit.
750 and related to the certification of financial information for KPMG has confirmed that it believes it is independent within the the debenture trustee.
The Committee does not believe that meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and that the this has impaired the Auditors independence.
objectivity of the audit partner and staff is not impaired.
The effectiveness of the external Auditor was reviewed and the Having carried out the review process described above, the Committee considered: Committee is satisfied that the Auditor remains independent and the Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: effective.
feedback from the Secretaries on the performance of the There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees audit team: choice of external Auditor.
the Audit Quality Inspection Report from the FRC: and Accountability and Audit detailed discussion with audit personnel to challenge audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor processes and deliverables.
in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 39 to 43.
To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process the Committee considered and reviewed: the Auditors engagement letter: By order of the Board Justin Dowley the Auditors proposed audit strategy: Audit Committee Chairman the audit fee: and 11 May 2018 a report from the Auditor on the conclusion of the audit.
Non audit service requests were considered on a case by case basis.
