77 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT am pleased to present the Nomination recommending the election re-election of Committee Report for 2018.
In accordance the Directors by shareholders, having due I w ith the Code and following the results regard to their performance and ability to of the Board evaluation, the Committee is continue to contribute to the Board, taking now made up entirely of Non-Executive into consideration the skill, experience and Directors.
Further details of the Committees knowledge required along with the need for members can be found on pages 62 to 65. progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Committees key role centres around Details of the skills and experience each Board recruitment and succession to ensure Director brings to the Board, are set out on the Company has the right people in the right pages 62 to 65. places.
In accordance with the spirit of the New Code, the Nomination Committee had a APPRAISAL PROCESS greater focus in 2018 on diversity, succession planning and talent management.
The expertise and performance of the Directors is considered each year.
The annual The Nomination Committee is responsible for: appraisal of the Chair is led by the Senior regularly reviewing the size, diversity, skills, Independent Director, Martin Moore.
experience, independence and knowledge This year, as the Committee was to consider of the Board and its Committees, to ensure the Chairs re-appointment for a second three that they are appropriately balanced with year term, Martin undertook a more thorough the right structure, size and composition review.
He met with Independent Audit to The composition, diversity to operate effectively and to deliver the discuss the feedback they had received on strategy.
This ensures that each Director is the Chair, and he also met with each of the and skills of the Board able to effectively discharge his or her duty Directors and the Company Secretary to and senior management to act in the best interests of shareholders discuss his performance.
There was agreement and other key stakeholders, while enabling that the Chair was performing his role well are vital drivers of the the business to operate effectively and and there was unanimous support for his successful implementation deliver on strategy: re-appointment.
The Chair leads the appraisal of the Chief Executive by arranging a meeting leading the process for Board and and operation of of Non-Executive Directors to discuss his Committee appointments to ensure performance.
The Non-Executive Directors the strategy.
that the process is formal, rigorous and agreed that the Chief Executive continues to transparent.
To identify and nominate for GERALD CORBETT perform well, executing his role with energy CHAIR OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Board approval, candidates to fill Board and and leading an effective executive team.
Committee vacancies, identifying the skills The performance of the other Non-Executive required for the particular role, appointing Directors is appraised by the Chair whilst a search firm, recognising the benefits the Executive Directors are appraised by the of diversity, and in the case of the NonChief Executive with feedback from other Executive Directors, ensuring that they will Directors where appropriate.
The Board is have sufficient time for the job: satisfied that all Directors possess relevant ensuring the Companys leadership skills experience and appropriate levels of real are fully aligned with the Companys longestate, financial and commercial experience term strategy: across various industries.
considering succession planning for the APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Ensuring that succession planning is in Following the appraisal process, the place for members of the Leadership team, Nomination Committee concluded that to create a strong pipeline of diverse and each of the Directors continued to make an talented individuals who are available effective contribution to the Board.
It also to support the Company in meeting its considered the time commitments of the future business objectives and achieving its Non-Executive Directors and concluded that strategic goals: each Director is able to commit sufficient time to the Company and to fulfil their duty to considering the diversity and promote the success of the Company.
inclusion policy: considering the talent development programme for the wider workforce: and 78 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED During the year the Nomination Committee As previously reported, the Board appointed and its execution not dependent on any reappointed Christopher Fisher for a third Carol Fairweather in January 2018 and Sue one individual.
For Executive Directors and three-year term.
The Committee was mindful Clayton in June 2018, and has recently for roles in the Leadership team, plans are that since the proposed renewal was beyond announced the appointment of Mary Barnard.
in place for sudden, unforeseen absences, six years, it should be subject to particularly This now completes the Committees current for medium-term orderly succession and rigorous review and should take into account work for the orderly rotation of Nonfor longer-term succession.
These plans are the need for progressive change of the Board.
then used to provide development plans The Committee acknowledged that there for our most talented people and to ensure had been a number of Director changes INDEPENDENCE that looking forward, we have the right over the past two years, so refreshing the people to deliver our strategy.
We encourage Doug Webb will have served nine years Board was not a particular objective at this regular contact between members of senior with us in May 2019.
Christopher's period of service, and management and the Board.
This may be by a of recent Board changes, the Nomination the continuity and stability which that gave Board presentation, a tour of assets or a oneCommittee has recommended to the Board the Board, was considered to be especially to-one session with Non-Executive Directors that he remain in office for a period to ensure valuable.
Following consideration of to discuss a specific issue.
continuity, although he will retire from the Christophers performance, the Committee Audit Committee after the 2019 AGM.
agreed that he was effective, made a valuable DIVERSITY The Committee and the Board consider that contribution to the meetings and continued Doug remains independent, notwithstanding The Directors are committed to having a to demonstrate commitment to the role, and having served a nine year term.
balanced Board which recognises the benefits recommended his reappointment for a further of diversity in its broadest sense and the three-year term from September 2018.
In 2018, we welcomed Sue Clayton as Nonvalue that this brings to the organisation in Executive Director.
Since Sue is a part time Martin Moore became the Senior terms of skills, knowledge and experience.
Executive Director of CBRE Limited CBRE, Independent Director in April 2018, following Our Board Diversity Policy is available at the Companys independent valuer, particular Baroness Fords retirement.
consideration was given to her independence earlier, he led the process for Gerald's reon appointment.
When assessing her With respect to gender specifically, the Board appointment for a further three-year term.
independence, the Committee noted that aspires to promote greater gender diversity.
In accordance with the Code, each of the Sue had no involvement in the preparation When running the process to appoint the Directors will submit themselves for re-election of the Companys valuation, nor did she Non-Executive Directors as described above, at the 2019 AGM, and Mary Barnard and Sue hold any line of managerial responsibility, the Committee recognised that how it selected Clayton will submit themselves for election.
directly or indirectly, over the CBRE valuation and briefed the executive search firms and, team.
It was agreed that during her term of in particular, how it described the skills APPOINTMENT OF NON-EXECUTIVE appointment with the Company, Sue should and experience needed for the roles were DIRECTORS have no involvement in reviewing CBREs important elements in attracting as wider pool performance or effectiveness, their fees or of candidates as possible.
The Committee will The Committee was aware in 2017 that their appointment.
Having sought additional only use the services of executive search firms over the following two years it would need assurances from both CBRE and Sue that in who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of to recruit three Non-Executive Directors in each of their views, her independence was not Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
order to ensure orderly succession.
It was compromised, the Committee confirmed that it committed to finding candidates with the In the final selection decision, all Board was satisfied that Sue was independent in both appropriate skills and experience to replace appointments are made on merit and relevant character and judgement, and was pleased to those of the retiring Directors and where experience, against the criteria identified by recommend Sues appointment to the Board.
The Committee the Committee with regard to the benefits of agreed the role specification and, in particular, diversity, including gender.
SUCCESSION PLANNING identified the required skills and attributes.
We are members of the 30% Club which aims Russell Reynolds, formerly known as The Below the Board, the Committee considers to achieve of 30 per cent of women on FTSE Zygos Partnership, was appointed to lead the succession planning regularly as it recognises 100 boards by 2020.
As at 31 December search as it has undertaken previous Nonthe importance of creating and supporting a 2018, there were two female and eight male Executive Director searches and has a good suitably talented diverse pipeline of leaders Board members.
By 1 March 2019, there will understanding of the Company and its culture.
ready to serve as the next generation of plc be three female Board members and eight Directors.
It reviews the skills and experience For each recruitment, a long list of candidates male.
See page 42 for further information of the current Board, and considers whether was circulated to the Directors for comments on Board diversity.
We also support the they are appropriate to support the delivery of and the Committee agreed the short lists.
aspirations of the Hampton Alexander review the Companys strategic goals both now and Generally the first round of interviews were to identify and develop the next generation in the future.
conducted by the Chair and Chief Executive of female talent.
For further details of the followed by other members of the Committee.
The Group HR Director regularly presents Groups approach to diversity below the Subsequent interviews were arranged with the to the Board on the Companys succession Board, please see pages 42 and 43.
planning and talent development programme.
GERALD CORBETT The Companys strategy is well established CHAIR OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
