79 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE IN 2018 COMMITTEE CHANGES As well as ensuring that the financial integrity Having served over eight years as the of the Company is maintained, risk remains a Committee Chair, I intend to retire from the focus of the Committee.
We are responsible Committee following the AGM and will be for providing independent scrutiny and replaced by Carol Fairweather.
Carol has ensuring that appropriate and robust policies provided valuable support and fresh insight and procedures are in place to identify and to the Committee throughout her time as a assess risk as well as to manage internal member and I wish her, and the rest of my controls and risk management systems.
Committee members, well for the future.
We also take an active interest inthe Some thoughts from Carol on taking over robustness of the valuation process since as Audit Committee Chair are set out on valuation is the most significant estimate in the page 80. financial statements.
Our other key activities, I am also delighted to extend a warm including oversight of the external and internal welcome to Sue Clayton as a member of the audit functions, are set out in more detail on Committee.
As you will have read elsewhere, pages 81 to 83. although Sue is a part-time Executive Director of CBRE, the Companys valuer, I and my MEETINGS AND COMPOSITION other Committee members are completely The Committee is composed entirely of satisfied that she is independent and indeed independent Non-Executive Directors who welcome the wealth of experience and insight Formal, rigorous and met three times in 2018.
The Committee is that she brings to the Committee.
an open forum for discussion and I encourage transparent processes 2018 will also be the last year for our lead participation and debate by all members.
I also audit partner, Craig Hughes, who will rotate ensure the integrity enjoy a constructive working relationship with off our account and be replaced by John the Companys management team, finance of the Companys Waters.
On behalf of the Committee, I function, external and internal auditors, and would like to take the opportunity to thank so am able to drop in or pick up the phone financial reporting.
He will bring fresh to discuss any matters that arise outside of DOUG WEBB and new thinking to the role whilst being scheduled meetings.
The Committee also has CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE supported by a strong team already familiar to the flexibility to meet more frequently on an the Company.
ad hoc basis where necessary.
I, and my other Committee members, find it very useful to DISCHARGE OF RESPONSIBILITIES am delighted to present the Audit be able to discuss matters in real time rather Committee Report, which will be my than wait for a scheduled meeting.
It has been a pleasure to be the Chair of I l ast as Chair.
2018 has been another the Committee.
The regular discussion and To give greater flavour to the matters being successful and busy year for the Company, challenge that the Committee has with the discussed during the year, as usual, a number with the development pipeline delivering talented management team, the external of additional attendees joined our meetings, a record number of completions, and and internal audit teams, coupled with the including the Group Financial Controller sound capital investments and divestments comprehensive information provided to the who explained and discussed the accounting adding to the strong returns.
Since one Committee, has assisted us in appropriately judgements and treatment given to particular of the Committees principal roles is to discharging our duties and responsibilities.
transactions, and the Director of Digital satisfy itself on the integrity of the financial & Technology who summarised how the I thank all those who contribute to the Audit statements having reviewed the significant Company approached cyber security, as well Committee function for their hard work financial reporting judgements and as other specialists including the Director dedication and commitment to the Committee estimates, during the year we discussed of Tax and General Counsel.
This gives us and the Company.
and debated a number of the key further assurance that the Executive is being transactions which have contributed DOUG WEBB supported by the appropriate specialists towards the healthy set of financial results CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE and that there is a pool of talent within which you will have read about elsewhere the Company.
We were satisfied that the appropriate financial treatment had been applied to them.
Further details on these transactions can be found in the Strategic Report and Financial Review.
80 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED COMPOSITION CAROLS THOUGHTS ABOUT TAKING ON THE ROLE OF AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIR Each Committee member is independent It will be a pleasure to assume this and welcoming and his knowledge of and has considerable commercial knowledge.
responsibility following Dougs retirement the Company and its history, as well as The Committee as a whole has the relevant from the Committee after the AGM.
his experience, have been very helpful in competence in property and financial Doug has certainly left it in good shape.
allowing me to quickly get up to speed experience to properly discharge its duties He has created a Committee that is with my new role.
I have also spent time and both the Committee Chair and Carol disciplined, conscientious and which familiarising myself with EPRA reporting Fairweather satisfy the requirement to bring encourages open discussion, whilst the metrics as these are property industry recent and relevant financial experience.
quality of the management reporting is specific.
I have shadowed Doug in his private As detailed in the Nomination Committee excellent.
These are standards that I will be meetings with CBRE, PwC and KPMG, Report on page 78, Sue Clayton is a part keen to maintain.
and am grateful for the insight into the time Executive Director of the Companys operations of the Committee and the role Doug and I have worked closely together valuer.
Although the Committee supports the of Chair this has brought.
I look forward to since I joined the Company to ensure a Nomination Committees assertion on Sues continuing Dougs good work in 2019 and thorough induction into the work of the independence, should Sue ever be conflicted would like to take this opportunity on behalf Committee, and more latterly to enable a and need to be excused from any of the of myself and fellow Committee members, smooth handover.
He has been friendly Committees discussions and decisions, the to thank Doug for his great leadership.
Committee would still be quorate without her.
MEETINGS AND MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Throughout the year the Committee has acted in accordance with its Terms of Reference which can be found at www.
In particular, its main activities have been: reviewing and monitoring the integrity, consistency and key accounting judgements and estimates made by management, to ensure that the quality of the Companys financial reporting is maintained, including going concern, in the Companys Half and Full year Financial Statements: assessing the independence of the valuer of the Groups property portfolio and gaining assurance around the valuation process: reviewing the adequacy of internal advising the Board on whether the process ensuring that the impact of the various debt financial controls and broader internal supporting the preparation of the Annual financing transactions detailed further on control systems: Report taken as a whole, is appropriate to page 31 had been accurately reflected in allow the Board to conclude that the Annual examining the performance of the external the Half year and Full year results: Report is fair, balanced and understandable and internal auditors, their objectivity, and provides the information necessary ensuring compliance with applicable effectiveness and independence, as well as to shareholders to assess the Groups accounting standards, monitoring the terms of their engagement and scope of position and performance, business model developments in accounting regulations as their audit and agreeing the annual internal and strategy: they affect the Group and reviewing the audit plan: appropriateness of accounting policies and ensuring the process followed to support monitoring the ratio and level of audit to practices in place: the making of the viability statement non-audit fees paid to the external auditor remained robust and was correctly followed: overseeing matters relating to tax and any and agreeing their remuneration for and potential impact tax matters may have on the year: the integrity of the Financial Statements: ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place analysing and challenging the results of for the detection of fraud and prevention monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit reviews and managements of bribery.
This extends to responsibility risk management systems and considering plans to resolve any actions arising for overseeing and monitoring the Groups the adequacy of the actions being taken to from them: anti-bribery and corruption policies and identify risks and mitigate the exposure of procedures contained in the Companys the Group to them: Code of Ethics.
81 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chart 1 below sets out the significant matters considered by the Committee during the year in relation to the Financial Statements.
CHART 1: 2018 SIGNIFICANT MATTERS Significant matter The action taken Valuation of the property portfolio The Committee ensured that there was a robust process in place to satisfy itself that the valuation of the property portfolio by CBRE, a leading firm in the UK Valuation is central to the business performance and is a significant estimate for the and Continental European property markets, was carried out appropriately and Committee as it is inherently subjective, because the valuer must make assumptions independently.
Given the significance, the full Board met twice with CBRE to review, and judgements in reaching its conclusions.
This is a recurring risk for the Group challenge, debate and consider the valuation process: understand any particular as it is key to its IFRS profitability, balance sheet portfolio value, net asset value, issues encountered in the valuation: and discuss the processes and methodologies total property return, and employee incentives.
It also affects investment decisions used.
The Chair of the Audit Committee and Carol Fairweather also met separately and the implementation of the Companys Disciplined Capital Allocation policy.
with CBRE to discuss such matters which allowed them to scrutinise the valuation It is included on the Risk Register and the process risk map as a potential key process and ensure the valuer remained independent, objective and effective.
The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that the valuation was not subject to undue influence and had been carried out fairly and appropriately, and in accordance with the industry valuation standards, and therefore suitable for inclusion in the Financial Statements.
For details of the Groups properties and related accounting policies see Note 13 and Note 1 of the Financial Statements.
For details of the results of the valuation see Note 13 of the Financial Statements.
Significant matter The action taken Accounting for significant acquisition, disposals and transactions The Committee considered the accounting treatment of key, complex transactions during 2018 including the accounting treatment applied to acquisitions and During the year, the Company made a number of acquisitions and disposals disposals of various properties, and the calculation of the SELP performance fee and carried out other transactions, which were large and or complex.
Certain due to the Company, by reviewing and challenging managements papers on transactions were considered to be significant because of the level of materiality accounting proposals and judgements.
involved and or any unusual terms or conditions or judgements, and because of the Following a review of the accounting treatment for these significant transactions, in risks inherent in the accounting process, including when a transaction or revenue particular the point at which each transaction should be recognised, the Committee should be recognised, and what the appropriate accounting treatment should be.
was satisfied that all relevant matters had been fully and adequately addressed and The accounting treatment of acquisitions, disposals and transactions themselves, that the approach adopted by the Company was appropriate in each case, and in is a recurring risk for the Group and is considered to be significant, since an accordance with IFRS.
inappropriate approach could cause a misstatement of the Groups financial position The Committee challenged the application of accounting policy and internal and or results.
The application of the accounting treatment for each particular controls relating to revenue recognition and reviewed reports from the external transaction is judged on its own particular facts and circumstances.
For further details of the accounting treatment applied to such significant transactions, see Note 1 of the Financial Statements.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE had been correctly and properly followed.
challenge and discuss matters throughout the The Committee is comfortable with the year is something the Committee values.
The Board is required to confirm that they process followed to make the viability consider, taken as a whole, that the Annual statement and has confirmed this to the Board.
OVERSIGHT Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary In July 2018, PwC presented their EXTERNAL AUDITOR for shareholders to assess the Companys audit plan for the year ahead which the position and performance, business model The Committee has worked with Committee considered and then approved.
In order to make this statement,  LLP PwC to PwC highlighted the key areas of risk, the Committee ensured that the due diligence ensure that the external audit, a key area of which were primarily identified as areas exercise which was described in the 2015 oversight, operated effectively.
The Committee of judgement and complexity and were Annual Report was followed.
periodically meets privately with the lead consistent with those areas identified by the partner, Craig Hughes, to discuss their work Committee.
The level of audit materiality was The Board has made the fair, balanced and and their observations on the Company.
understandable' statement on page 108, No areas of concern have been raised.
following the Committees confirmation PwC presented a detailed report of their In addition, the Committee Chair occasionally that the processes and controls around audit findings at the year end, which were has meetings and telephone calls with the preparation of the Annual Report are reviewed and discussed.
A similar review of Craig or his colleagues to discuss matters as appropriate, robust and consistent.
the external auditors report was undertaken they arise throughout the year, such as the by the Committee at the Half year.
As part accounting treatment to be applied to the VIABILITY STATEMENT of this review the Committee questioned SELP performance fee received by SEGRO.
and challenged the work undertaken and The Committee ensured that the process It is believed that this is much more effective the findings and the key assumptions made, put in place in 2015 to allow the Board to and helpful than just waiting to discuss matters with particular attention to the areas of audit make the viability statement, on page 55, at the scheduled meetings.
was robust, in line with market practice and relationship with PwC and the ability to 82 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED CHART 2: AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES PAID TO  LLP 2018 2017 2016 Audit fees m 0.72 0.81 0.68 Non-audit fees m 0.06 0.49 0.09 Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees % 9 61 13 The above table excludes fees paid to PwC in respect of joint ventures.
If these were included, the 2018 ratio of audit to non-audit fees would have been 18 per cent.
EFFECTIVENESS REMUNERATION AND INDEPENDENCE RISK The Committee assesses the effectiveness of The Committee considers the remuneration As you will have seen from the Principal the external audit process on an annual basis, of the external auditor at least on a semiRisks on pages 56 to 58, risk management is by reviewing a number of factors: annual basis and approves its remuneration.
taken seriously by all at SEGRO.
We are ever It also keeps under close review the ratio of aware of the need to ensure that new and performance in discharging the audit and audit to non-audit fees to ensure that the emerging risks, as well as more established Half year review: independence and objectivity of the external principal risks, are adequately managed and independence and objectivity: and auditor are safeguarded.
The Board recognises that effective maintained by the Policy for Approval of Nonrisk management is key to the long-term reappointment and remuneration.
Audit Services available at www.
com sustainable growth of the business and Taking into account the views of management which recognises that there are certain the achievement of the Groups strategic involved in the audit, the Committee was circumstances where i PwC will not be used objectives.
As a result of this, risk management satisfied with the performance of PwC and in any circumstances: ii PwC may be used, is embedded in the Companys decision recommended to the Board that it propose to subject to the approval of the Chief Financial making and robust processes have been put in shareholders that PwC should be reappointed Officer: and iii PwC may be used, subject place to ensure this remains the case.
There is for the 2019 financial year.
The Company to the approval of the Audit Committee.
an on-going process for identifying, evaluating complies with the Competition and Market In addition, the lead audit partner must and managing the principal risks faced by Authority Order 2014 relating to audit also approve any non-audit work that PwC the Group, which has been in place during tendering and the provision of non-audit proposes to carry out for the Company before the year.
The Board assumes responsibility services.
There are no contractual obligations an engagement is accepted.
for the effective management of risk across which restrict the Committees choice of the Group, determined by its risk appetite, In 2018, fees for audit services, excluding the external auditor or which put in place a as well as ensuring that each business area SELP joint venture, amounted to 718,000 minimum period for their tenure.
The external implements appropriate internal controls.
and the non-audit fees amounted to 63,000. audit was last tendered in 2015 following The Committee reviews the effectiveness of The Committee has concluded that PwC which the auditor changed from Deloitte LLP the risk management process on behalf of the remains independent and objective, and to PwC, and so there are no current plans to Board and is satisfied that it remains robust that the level of non-audit to audit fees is re-tender the services of the external auditor.
for the financial year in question and up to the acceptable for 2018.
Further details of these date of this Report.
fees, and fees in respect of the audit of the Groups SELP joint venture for which PwC is the auditor, are provided in Note 6 ii to the Financial Statements.
The non-audit fee for 2018 equates to 9 per cent of the average audit fees of the last three years.
Chart 2 sets out the ratio of audit to non-audit fees for each of the past three years.
The Committee is satisfied that PwC continues to provide appropriate levels of challenge and scrutiny, and remained independent.
PwC has provided written confirmation of its independence to the Committee.
83 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERNAL AUDIT INTERNAL CONTROL The draft consolidated statements are reviewed by various individuals including The Committee believes that the value of The Committee is responsible for reviewing those independent of the preparer.
The review internal audit is enhanced by having a third the adequacy and effectiveness of internal includes checking internal consistency, party perform this function, as this supports control systems on behalf of the Board.
consistency with other statements, and the independent challenge of management This review is consistent with the Code, consistency with internal accounting records.
and gives greater access to expertise than an and covers all material areas of the Group, The Committee and the Board review the internal function could provide.
KPMG has including risk management see page 52 of draft consolidated Financial Statements.
performed the role since its appointment in Principal Risks and compliance with controls The Committee received reports from 2007 and reappointment in 2014 following in relation to the process for preparing the management and the auditor on significant a tender.
During their tenure, there has Financial Statements.
judgements, changes in accounting policies, been a number of rotations of lead partners Internal controls are regularly reviewed by the and other relevant matters relating to and audit managers to ensure that a fresh Board and the effectiveness of the Groups the consolidated Financial Statements.
perspective is given, and their independence processes to manage them are frequently The Financial Statements are also subject to and scrutiny maintained.
considered by the Committee which reviews a external audit.
Topics selected for internal audit were schedule listing all outstanding control points, based on a review of the Groups key risks noting the priority attaching to them and the COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS which had not been subject to recent audit.
progress made against agreed timeframes The review of the Committees effectiveness The proposed internal audit programme for resolution.
The Committee confirms that was included as part of the Board evaluation for the following year was considered and it has not been advised of or identified any process detailed on page 71 and found approved by the Committee in December, failings or weaknesses which it regards to the Committee to be performing effectively.
although it is adapted during the year to be significant.
In addition, the quality of the papers and incorporate any new or increased risks presentations by management, coupled with which materialise.
FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS the level of challenge by the Committee The Committee believes that both the process The Group has established internal controls with management, PwC, KPMG and CBRE, for determining the internal audit programme, and risk management systems in relation and the quality of discussions held, gives the and the programme itself, are appropriate to the process for preparing the Financial Committee further comfort and assurance that and effective, particularly since there is scope Statements.
Various checks on internal it is performing its role effectively.
for the Company to react to events, new financial controls take place throughout information and situations which come to light the year, including internal audits.
during the year and include them if necessary.
Developments in accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting are Each internal audit during 2018 confirmed monitored by the Company and where that the relevant areas were appropriately appropriate, reflected in the Financial controlled, and the identified enhancements Statements.
Training is also provided to the were entered into the schedule which lists finance teams and the Committee is kept control points which require improvement appropriately informed.
actions see Internal Control below.
The financial reporting from each business Once each internal audit is complete, a unit is subject to review by a local finance questionnaire is issued by KPMG to the manager prior to being submitted to the process owner about their internal audit as Group Finance function.
The results of each well as to the other relevant employees, to business unit are subject to further review by ensure that real-time feedback is collected the Group Finance function.
The results are on the quality and effectiveness of its audit.
then consolidated by Group Finance and are The results of this feedback are provided to subject to various levels of review including by the Committee along with detailed findings senior management.
and recommendations of the internal audits themselves.
The feedback on the internal audits was largely positive and no areas of particular concern have been brought to the Committees attention.
The lead KPMG partner also attends Committee meetings to present its report and the Committee also meets privately with him during the year.
