Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Group Risk Committee Report Group Risk Committee members Rachel Lomax Chair Ian El-Mokadem John Rishton Dear Shareholders These improvements in reporting, process and structure, The Committee has continued to oversee the Groups have generated a greater understanding and confidence in efforts to enhance its risk management capability and our management of risk, and the progress that is being the way that the Risk Management Framework has been made towards achieving target outcomes.
During its regular reviews of principal risks, it has paid particular attention to the Following a review and horizon scanning exercise by the monitoring of progress in constructing and implementing Executive Committee, it was agreed that there were no effective risk management plans.
material changes to our principal risks since our 2017 report.
The Committee has focused on: I would like to thank Mike Clasper for his contribution to conducting deep dives with each Division, considering the work of the Committee since its creation, and welcome and challenging their approach to their material risks, Kirsty Bashforth who is joining the Committee later and gaining a deeper understanding of the management this year.
approach to risk management generally: challenging divisional risk registers to ensure they are aligned to the Groups principal risks: and satisfying itself that Divisions have adequate capability to implement the Groups Risk Management Framework.
Rachel Lomax A Key Risk Indicator Dashboard has been introduced to Chair of the Group Risk Committee help improve oversight and visibility of the effectiveness 20 February 2019 of our risk management approach.
The Dashboard includes indicators such as tolerance levels, progress in implementing mitigation plans, leading and or lagging indicators and results from our three lines of defence activity for each principal risk.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 91 Corporate Governance Report Group Risk Committee Report continued Committees responsibilities Activities of the Committee during 2018 The Committee advises the Board on the Groups overall risk During the year the Committees key activities included: appetite, tolerance and strategy, taking account of the receiving updates regarding the Groups principal risks, current and prospective macroeconomic and financial detailing key changes and trends, and emerging risks: environments.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are: undertaking, as planned, an in-depth review deep overseeing the effectiveness of the Groups risk dives of the following risks: Failure to manage our management framework, including the assessment of all reputation, Financial control failure, Failure to deliver the principal risks facing the Group, and the action being expected benefits from Transformation, Contract taken by management to mitigate risks that are outside of non-compliance, non-performance or misreporting, the Groups risk appetite: Catastrophic incident, Material legal and regulatory challenging and advising the Board on the current risk compliance failure, Failure of business critical partner, exposures facing the Group, future risk strategy and supplier, sub-contractor and Major information security reviewing regular risk management reports which enable breach.
Failure to grow profitably was reviewed the Committee to consider the process for risk specifically at our October Board meeting following an identification and management: initial review of the content by the Committee.
Failure to assessing how key Group risks are controlled and act with integrity was reviewed by our Corporate monitored by management: Responsibility Committee: in conjunction with the Audit Committee, reviewing the receiving presentations, as planned, from all four Groups risk assessment processes, and ensuring both Divisional CEOs covering their Divisional Risk qualitative and quantitative metrics are used to inform the Management process, alignment of their risks to the Boards decision-making: and Group Risk Register and a selected deep dive on one of reviewing the Groups capability to identify and manage their principal risks.
These included a review on a Major emerging risks, in conjunction with the other Board information security breach from Serco Americas, Failure Committees as appropriate.
to convert sufficient profitable business by 2019 to achieve 2021 Plan from Serco Asia Pacific, Contract nonThe Terms of Reference for the Committee are available on compliance, non-performance or misreporting from Serco the Companys website.
UK and Failure to grow profitably from Serco Middle East: refining the risk review process at Leadership level, resulting in deep dive reviews for certain risks to be Membership and attendees discussed in more detail by appropriate Committees.
For The Committee is comprised solely of independent Nonexample, the deep dive on Failure to act with integrity Executive Directors.
The Board considers that each member risk was carried out with the Corporate Responsibility of the Committee is independent within the definition set Committee: out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
reviews on potential cost pressures in the UK, Brexit and Biographical details for each member of the Committee are other matters.
Refer to page 54 for more details on provided on pages 84 and 85.
The Committee met four times emerging risks: and during the year and details of Committee membership on-going challenge and support of the Group Risk and and attendance at meetings are set out on page 89 and Compliance Director to improve, enhance and embed the Committee meetings are held in advance of Board meetings, risk management framework.
with the Committee Chair updating the Board directly on the outcomes of each meeting.
Meetings of the Committee were 2019 priorities and focus attended by the Chief Executive, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and the Group Risk and Compliance During 2019, the Committee will continue their focus on Director.
undertaking detailed deep dive reviews into Group principal risks, which may not be classified as such but none the less warrant review and discussion at Committee level.
Meetings with the Divisional teams will also continue.
Focus will remain on the progression of mitigation actions and their effectiveness in driving the Risk Management Agenda.
We will continue to refine our Key Risk Indicators, Corporate Risk Management Tool and the supporting policies, standards and reporting.
| 92 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Sercos approach to managing business risks and internal control Sercos internal control framework includes financial, Second line of defence The Group Risk and Compliance operational, compliance and risk management controls.
Function is responsible for the development and These are designed to manage and minimise risks that implementation of policies and standards associated with would adversely affect services to our customers and to Risk Management and Compliance Assurance.
It is the safeguard shareholders investments, our assets, our custodian of the Group Compliance Assurance Programme people and our reputation collectively business risks.
CAP and the Principal Risk Register, providing management oversight, assurance and challenge.
"Internal controls and key processes are defined within the Serco Management System SMS""."
To provide The CAP aims to ensure we have a consistent approach to management assurance that these controls are effective, we compliance assurance across all Divisions, with direction use a three line of defence compliance assurance model to provided by Group around minimum requirements based test business compliance.
The Executive Committee is responsible for providing Third line of defence The Group Head of Internal Audit oversight, challenge and direction across the first and reports functionally to the Audit Committee Chair and is second lines of defence, including the review of the responsible for the delivery of the Internal Audit Group Risk Register and individual risks as required.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management Together with external audits undertaken across the Group, and internal control and formally reviews the findings of the Internal Audit provides an independent assessment of the overall Internal Audit programme.
It is supported in these design and operating effectiveness of the Groups duties by the Group Risk and Audit Committees.
governance, risk management and control frameworks in place to manage risk.
The Board confirms that there has been a focus on the three lines of defence for the year under review and up to the The Internal Audit team carries out an annual programme of date of approval of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
risk-based audits reporting findings to the Audit Committee.
The audit programme is approved by the Audit First line of defence Contract Managers, Business and Committee.
The in-house Internal Audit team uses PwC as a Function leaders within the Group are responsible for co-sourced resource, where appropriate.
identifying and managing risks and for implementing associated processes and controls.
We endeavour to ensure that appropriate processes and controls are in place through the implementation of our SMS and that suitably trained staff seek to ensure that customer, legal and regulatory requirements are adhered to.
We conduct an annual SMS self-assessment which is completed by our Contract Managers and other Leaders across the Group.
This process enables a deeper understanding of SMS compliance levels and helps drive improvements.
Progress against actions identified through this self-assessment is monitored by senior management.
We recognise that whilst the SMS controls can provide reasonable assurance against mistatement or loss, this cannot be absolute.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 93
