STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS c IFRS 16 Leases.
Effective for annual periods beginning The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which an entity 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 1 January 2019 expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or Senior plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity interests issued Effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2019, IFRS 16 Leases services to a customer.
Revenue is recognised net of discounts, VAT Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on the by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any will replace IAS 17 Leases and requires lessees to recognise right of use and other sales related taxes.
The determination of the transaction price is inside back cover.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
assets and lease liabilities for all leases be they operating or financing in based upon pricing specified in the customer contract i. e. a price per unit.
activities are set out in Note 4 and on pages 1 to 37.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets classification under IAS 17, unless the lease term is 12 months or less or Revenue is recognised as the identified performance obligations Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured the underlying asset is low value.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group are satisfied.
are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an acquisition-byholds a significant number of operating leases which under IAS 17 were in which the entity operates the functional currency.
These Financial acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term see Note 33.
The performance obligation for goods is a specific point in time when Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Companys the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests the customer obtains control, which is upon delivery or when available The Group has undertaken a comprehensive review across all lease functional and the Groups presentation currency.
proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Allocation of transaction price to performance obligations commitments and performed the required assessment of its cumulative is given in the contract i. e. a unit delivered or available for collection.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES adjustment on transition to IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019 and applied the included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date Basis of accounting standard from the transitional date using the modified retrospective The performance obligation for development revenue is a specific point of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with approach and not restating comparatives.
As at 1 January 2019, the in time when the customer obtains control of the output, for example a International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the Groups audited right of use assets were 96.7m, finance lease liabilities first article good, which is the acceptance milestone specified in the The results of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity European Union and they therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS were 96.3m and working capital and non-current liabilities decreased customer contract.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except by 0.4m in total.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and retirement benefit The estimated annual financial impact has also been updated from prior legal rights to receive payment have been established.
costs measured in accordance with IAS 19.
They have also been prepared subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used guidance in order to reflect the lease portfolio and financial conditions by the Group.
on the going concern basis as set out in the Financial Review on pages Interest at the date of transition: actual financial impacts will differ as these 26 to 29.
The Directors have, at the time of approving these Financial Interest receivable payable is credited charged to the Income Statement All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are conditions change.
From the financial year ending 31 December 2019, Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company using the effective interest method.
depreciation 10.2m annually as determined at the date of transition have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the on the right of use assets will be charged to the Consolidated Income Leasing foreseeable future.
Therefore they continue to adopt the going concern Goodwill Statement while interest 3.6m annually as determined at the date of Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease basis of accounting in preparing these Financial Statements.
Goodwill arising on consolidation is measured as the excess of the transition will be accrued against the lease liabilities.
These charges to substantially transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in Changes in accounting policies the Consolidated Income Statement will be partly offset by operating All other leases are classified as operating leases.
the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, a number of lease rentals that will no longer be expensed to the Consolidated Income interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the new standards and amendments to existing standards have been issued, Statement 11.3m annually as determined at the date of transition.
It is recognised as an asset and reviewed Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum all of which are effective, apart from IFRS 16, which is effective on for impairment at least annually and will be reviewed for indicators of As a result of this accounting change and the related classification of lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The 1 January 2019 and has not been adopted early.
A summary of the impairment at the Balance Sheet date.
Any impairment is recognised certain items in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, in the financial corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as impact review performed on each standard is given below.
None of immediately through the Consolidated Income Statement and is not year ending 31 December 2019, cash generated by Operations and free a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between these changes will have an effect on cash generated by Operations subsequently reversed.
cash flow as defined in Note 32 are expected to increase by 11.3m and finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligation in order to achieve nor on free cash flow, apart from IFRS 16, which is explained below.
Capital repayments of lease liabilities will be classified a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance If the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest a IFRS 9 Financial instruments to net cash used in financing activities, resulting in a neutral effect on the charges are charged directly to the Income Statement.
in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity This standard covers the classification, measurement, impairment and movement in cash and cash equivalents.
interest in the acquiree is less than the fair value of the net assets Rentals payable under operating leases are expensed on a straight-line derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities together with a acquired i. e. bargain purchase, the difference is credited to the The adoption of IFRS 16 does not impact the Groups lending covenants, basis over the term of the relevant lease.
It replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments Consolidated Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
as these are based currently on frozen GAAP.
The standard requires financial assets and financial Benefits received and receivable as incentives to enter into an operating liabilities to be held at amortised cost or to be fair valued through either Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at aquisition, The following practical expedients for IFRS 16 are expected to be taken lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
the profit and loss account FVTPL or other comprehensive income to the group of cash-generating units CGU groups that are expected to on the transition date: Foreign currencies FVTOCI.
All non-derivative financial assets and liabilities are held at benefit from that business combination.
CGU groups to which goodwill the Group will not reassess whether existing contracts are, or contain, amortised cost.
All derivative assets and liabilities are fair valued and held has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded a lease and will apply IFRS 16 only to existing contracts that were at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each for trading FVTPL or are cash flow hedges FVTOCI.
In accordance with when there is an indication that the CGU group may be impaired.
The previously identified as leases under IAS 17: the transitional provisions in IFRS 9, comparative figures have not been recoverable amount of the CGU group is determined by applying a pre-tax Balance Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated the Group will apply a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the Balance restated with the exception of certain aspects of hedge accounting.
discount rate to its pre-tax future cash flows.
If the recoverable amount reasonably similar characteristics: and of the CGU group is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss Sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated There is no material impact for the Group on transition to the in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated for leases which have a remaining term of less than 12 months from new standard.
to the CGU group and then to the other assets of the CGU group pro rata the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured at the transition date, the Group will treat these leases in the same way historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Gains and losses b IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU group.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a arising on retranslation are included in profit or loss for the period, except This standard, which has replaced existing revenue standards, requires d Other new standards and amendments to existing standards for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities the separation of performance obligations within contracts with subsequent period.
There are no other material new standards, amendments to standards or where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, subject customers and the contractual value to be allocated to each of the interpretations which are effective for the year ended 31 December 2018.
On disposal of a subsidiary or part thereof, the attributable amount of to meeting the requirements under IAS 21. performance obligations.
Revenue is then recognised as each goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
IFRIC 23, which clarifies accounting for uncertainties in income taxes, performance obligation is satisfied.
is effective on 1 January 2019 and is not expected to have a significant In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to the date of transition to IFRS has impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
enters into forward exchange contracts see section below on derivative The Group has adopted this standard using the cumulative effect method, been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being tested financial instruments and hedging for details of the Groups accounting therefore the information presented for 2017 has not been restated.
This Basis of consolidation for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
involved calculating the relevant adjustments required for contracts not The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in completed as at the transition date of 1 January 2018.
Statements of Senior plc and the entities controlled by it its subsidiaries On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Control is achieved when Senior plc has operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance The impact of the transition on the Financial Statements for 2018 is not Revenue recognition the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an invested Sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average material.
Market practice and industry interpretations of IFRS 15 are The Group predominantly has one revenue stream relating to engineered entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
exchange rates for the period.
Exchange rate differences arising, if any, continuing to evolve.
The Group will continue to monitor these components or systems products, which are customer specific, with are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
developments and will re-evaluate the transitional adjustments as Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using a secondary revenue stream of funded development revenue.
Both Such translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the necessary, but we do not anticipate any material adjustments being the acquisition method.
The consideration transferred for each acquisition streams have identifiable customer contracts and pricing specific period in which the operation is disposed.
required given the Groups operating model.
is the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets performance obligations.
82 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 83 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED assessment.
When making this assessment, the Group utilises specialist If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED in-house tax knowledge and experience and takes into consideration carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign Internally generated intangible assets research and specialist tax advice from third party advisers on specific items.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and development expenditure immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, translated at the closing rate on the relevant Balance Sheet date.
An intangible asset arising from unfunded development work shall be Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
recognised if the following can be demonstrated: differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in The exchange rates for the major currencies applied in the translation of the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount results were as follows: i. the asset can be separately identified.
computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the Balance of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable Average Average Year-end Year-end ii.
it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic Sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the rates rates rates rates benefits.
2018 2017 2018 2017 carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised US Dollar 1.34 1.29 1.28 1.35 to the extent it is probable that taxable profits will be available against loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably during its impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Government grants and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the Government grants received for items of a revenue nature are recognised iv.
it is technically feasible to complete the asset so that it will be available from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
as income over the period necessary to match them with the related combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects Inventories costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
neither the Groups taxable profit nor its accounting profit.
v. there is intention to complete the asset and use or sell it.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs Government grants relating to investment in property, plant and Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences comprise direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and vi.
the Group has ability to use or sell the asset.
equipment are deducted from the initial carrying value of the related arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint an appropriate allocation of production overheads.
Cost is calculated using capital asset.
the Group has availability of adequate technical, financial and other ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the the first-in, first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated resources to complete the development work and to use or sell temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will selling price less the estimated costs of completion and the costs to be Retirement benefit costs the asset.
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Payments to defined contribution retirement plans are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line The carrying value of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Financial instruments benefit plans are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans basis over their useful lives.
Sheet date and reduced to the extent it is no longer probable that Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes where the Groups obligations under the plans are equivalent to those sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and Costs incurred in relation to funded development work are accumulated arising in a defined contribution retirement plan.
deferred tax asset to be recovered.
derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
in inventory and are recognised when the related billings are made.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is Any amounts held in inventory are subject to normal inventory Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in Financial instruments are classified as cash and cash equivalents, bank determined using the Projected Unit Method, with full actuarial valuations valuation principles.
the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on overdrafts and loans, obligations under finance leases, trade receivables, being carried out on a triennial basis, and updated at each Balance Sheet tax laws and rates that have been enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
trade payables, deferred consideration receivable, other receivables and Other expenditure on research and development activities, that do not date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Income other payables, as appropriate.
meet the capitalisation criteria above, is recognised as an expense in the which they occur.
They are recognised outside the Consolidated Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to Other period in which it is incurred.
Non-derivative financial assets are categorised as Financial assets at Statement and are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Comprehensive Income or directly to equity, in which case the deferred amortised cost and non-derivative financial liabilities are categorised as Other intangible assets tax is also dealt with in Other Comprehensive Income or equity.
Past service cost is recognised as an expense at the earlier of a plan Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Derivative financial assets and Other intangible assets include computer software and intangible assets amendment, curtailment, or restructuring.
Property, plant and equipment liabilities that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments acquired as part of a business combination.
Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or are categorised as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Balance The cost of acquiring computer software including associated services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the Balance Sheet and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, respectively.
Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, and implementation and development costs where applicable is classified as at their historical cost, or at modified historical cost, being a revaluation The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any net asset resulting an intangible asset.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software undertaken in 1988 which has been taken as the effective cost on assets and liabilities and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
from this calculation is limited to the past service cost plus the present programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised computer transition to IFRS.
Land and buildings were revalued to fair value at value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Trade receivables software is amortised over its estimated useful life of between three and the date of revaluation.
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal The discount rate and inflation rate used to measure the UK retirement five years on a straight-line basis, and is stated at cost less accumulated The Group does not intend to conduct annual revaluations.
value as reduced by loss allowance.
The Group has elected to measure benefit scheme have been updated in 2018 in line with developing market amortisation and impairment losses.
loss allowance for trade receivables at an amount equal to the lifetime practice following actuarial advice, which do not have a significant impact Fixtures, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination principally expected credit losses ECLs, which are based on quantitative and on the Financial Statements.
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
comprise customer relationships, contracts and trade names.
They are qualitative credit risk assessments, using historical and forward looking Taxation shown at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation information.
Changes in the carrying amounts of the loss allowance are Depreciation is charged to write off the cost of an asset on a straight-line Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit at the rates of between three and five years on a straight-line basis.
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, and is charged from the differs from profit before tax as reported in the Income Statement time an asset becomes available for its intended use.
Annual rates are as Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill Trade receivables in default are considered uncollectible and are written because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or follows: At each Balance Sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts off against the loss allowance.
The Group considers a trade receivable deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any to be in default when the customer is experiencing significant financial Freehold land Nil taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any difficulties, bankruptcy, financial reorganisation or is in default or delinquent Freehold buildings 2% using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in paying its credit obligations to the Group in full.
Subsequent recoveries Leasehold buildings over their expected useful lives on the same Balance Sheet date.
in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where of amounts previously written off are credited against the loss allowance.
basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over Provisions for tax uncertainties are included within current tax liabilities on the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other the lease term Trade receivables are derecognised when factored, without recourse, the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
There are transactions and activities that assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashPlant and equipment 5% 33% through third party financial institutions the Factors.
the Group engages in where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is and a provision may be made against the tax benefit.
For example, the Cash and cash equivalents The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less the costs to sell determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying Group seeks to price transactions between Group companies as if Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short-term and the value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future amount of the asset at disposal and is recognised in the Consolidated they were unrelated parties in compliance with OECD transfer pricing highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount Income Statement.
principles and the laws of the relevant jurisdictions and this involves a of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money degree of uncertainty.
Provisions against uncertainties are established and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash based on management judgment of the range of likely tax outcomes in flows have not been adjusted.
open years and in consideration of the strength of technical arguments and are based on amounts that the company expect to pay following this 84 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 85 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not 2.
REVENUE qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Consolidated Income Non-derivative financial liabilities Critical accounting judgments Total revenue is disaggregated by market sectors as follows: Statement as they arise.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the IAS requires disclosure of the judgments Management makes when Year ended Year ended effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of applying its significant accounting policies and that have the most 2018 2017 Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires m m calculating the amortised financial liability and of allocating interest over significant effect on amounts that are recognised in the Groups Financial or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge Civil Aerospace 563.6 533.4 the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly Statements.
In the course of preparing the Financial Statements, no accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging Military Aerospace 125.6 123.6 discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of significant critical judgments have been made in the process of applying instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted Other 71.2 68.3 the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net the Groups accounting policies, other than those involving estimations, transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, Aerospace 760.4 725.3 carrying amount on initial recognition.
For borrowings, their carrying value which are dealt with separately below.
Management makes other the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
judgments in the normal course of conducting business, such as Consolidated Income Statement for the period.
Land Vehicles 167.0 157.8 those in relation to contractual matters and legal costs see Note 24 Equity instruments Power & Energy 147.8 133.3 Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised in the for further details.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value of Other 8.1 7.7 Consolidated Income Statement on disposal of the overseas operation.
the proceeds received, net of direct transaction costs.
Key sources of estimation and uncertainty Flexonics 322.9 298.8 Assets and disposal groups held for sale When applying the Groups accounting policies, Management must make Derivative financial instruments and hedging Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be assumptions and estimates concerning the future that affect the carrying Eliminations 1.2 0.7 The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the business.
Where a amounts of assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date and the in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses Total revenue 1,082.1 1,023.4 group of assets and their directly associated liabilities are to be disposed amounts of revenue and expenses recognised during the period.
Such foreign exchange contracts and, on occasion, interest rate swap contracts of in a single transaction, such disposal groups are also classified as held assumptions are based upon factors including historical experience, the Other Aerospace comprises Space and Non-Military Helicopters and to hedge these exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed for sale.
For this to be the case, the asset or disposal group must be observance of trends in the industries in which the Group operates, and other markets, principally including semiconductor, medical, and by the Groups Treasury Policies as approved by the Board of Directors, available for immediate sale in its present condition, and management information available from the Groups customers and other external industrial applications.
which provides written principles on the use of derivatives.
The Group must be committed to and have initiated a plan to sell the asset or sources.
The key sources of estimation and uncertainty at the Balance does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
disposal group which, when initiated, was expected to result in a Sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment The Group applies the practical expedient in paragraph 121 of IFRS 15 completed sale within 12 months.
Assets that are classified as held for and does not disclose information about remaining performance to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Assets or disposal groups that are classified as year and beyond include: obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less.
These are categorised as at fair value through profit or loss and are held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the Income taxes Applying the practical expedient in paragraph 94 of IFRS 15, the Group value less costs to sell.
recognises the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense In determining the Group provisions for income tax and deferred tax, Provisions it is necessary to consider transactions in a small number of key tax when incurred if the amortisation period of the assets that the Group The Group designates certain hedging instruments in respect of foreign Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal otherwise would have recognised is one year or less.
jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
To the currency risk as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group extent that the final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging 4.
SEGMENT INFORMATION will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax provisions held instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management The Group reports its segment information as two operating Divisions made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the in the period the determination is made.
The carrying amount of net objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
according to the market segments they serve, Aerospace and Flexonics, Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the current tax liability and deferred tax liability at 31 December 2018 was The Group also documents, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing which is consistent with the oversight employed by the Executive obligation at the Balance Sheet date, taking into account the risks and 18.8m 2017 20.2m and 39.8m 2017 32.7m, respectively.
basis, whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging Committee.
The chief operating decision maker, as defined by IFRS 8, uncertainties such as timing or amount surrounding the obligation.
Further details on these estimates are set out in Notes 10 and 21. relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or is the Executive Committee.
For management purposes, the Aerospace They are not discounted to present value if the effect is not material.
cash flows of the hedged item.
Retirement benefits Division is managed as two sub-divisions, Aerostructures and Fluid Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group Management makes assumptions and estimates, for the next financial For the Groups cash flow hedges of highly probable forecast transactions Systems: however, these are aggregated as one reporting segment in has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and the plan has been year and beyond, which affect the value of the carrying amount of the in foreign currencies, the hedged risk is always considered to be 1:1.
If the accordance with IFRS 8 as they serve similar markets and customers.
communicated to the affected parties.
Provisions for the expected UK Plan retirement benefit obligation at 31 December 2018.
Management underlying exposure changes over time, either due to commercial factors The Flexonics Division is managed as a single division.
cost for warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation are follows actuarial advice from a third party when determining assumptions or timing differences, the hedging instruments will be rebalanced to The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products.
and estimates on discount rate, inflation and demography see Note 35. ensure that the hedge ratio of 1:1 is maintained.
Groups accounting policies described in Note 2 and the sales between In 2018, the past service charge required for the equalisation of historical Share-based payments Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are segments are carried out at arms length.
Adjusted operating profit, as UK Guaranteed Minimum Pensions has been estimated to increase the The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
designated and are effective as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly described in Note 9, is the key measure reported to the Groups Executive UK Plan liabilities by 2.4m see Note 9 and Note 35. in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Committee for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain The carrying amount of the UK Plans retirement benefits at 31 December Consolidated Income Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm segment performance.
Investment income, finance costs and tax are not employees.
The fair value excluding the effect of non-market-related commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an 2018 was a surplus of 30.9m 2017 surplus of 19.4m, being the allocated to segments, as this type of activity is driven by the central tax conditions, as determined at the grant date, is expensed on a straight-line present value of the defined benefit obligations of 278.7m 2017 asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, and treasury function.
basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been 301.8m and fair value of plan assets of 309.6m 2017 321.2m.
number of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect Segment assets include directly attributable computer software assets, Further details and sensitivities from changes in estimates are set out recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset of non-market-related conditions.
property, plant and equipment, working capital assets, goodwill and or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset in Note 35g.
Cash, deferred and current tax and or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Income Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for the share Other estimates other financial assets except for working capital are not allocated to Statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects profit option plans, and a binomial model for the share awards under the 2005 The Board has considered the estimation applied to inventory and segments for the purposes of reporting financial performance to the or loss.
concluded that there is not a significant risk of a material adjustment Groups Executive Committee.
arising over the next financial year.
Management assesses the carrying For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged The liability in respect of equity-settled amounts is included in equity.
value of inventory to ensure that it is held at lower of cost and net realisable item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being value.
Where necessary, management makes an estimate to write down hedged with the corresponding entry in the Consolidated Income inventory to its net realisable value.
The Group held a net inventory Statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative are also balance at the year end of 177.8m 2017 154.5m.
In determining an recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the hedge is estimate of net realisable value, management has made assumptions in effective, these entries will offset in the Consolidated Income Statement.
respect of the durability, quality, specificity and order cover, which provide some protection against adverse market conditions, and competitor product development and pricing activity.
Inventory held is typically built on a demand basis and is customer specific.
86 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 87 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Additions to Additions to Depreciation Depreciation Segment liabilities include directly attributable working capital liabilities.
Debt, finance leases, retirement benefits, deferred and current tax and other non-current non-current and and financial liabilities except for working capital are not allocated to segments for the purposes of reporting financial performance to the Groups assets assets amortisation amortisation Executive Committee.
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 2018 2017 2018 2017 Central costs, assets and liabilities are corporate items not allocated to segments, which is consistent with the format used by the chief operating m m m m decision maker.
Aerospace 43.3 41.0 37.3 36.2 Flexonics 12.8 13.4 19.4 21.5 Segment information for revenue, operating profit and a reconciliation to entity and profit after tax is presented below: Sub-total 56.1 54.4 56.7 57.7 Eliminations Eliminations Central 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.2 central central Total 56.3 54.8 56.9 57.9 Aerospace Flexonics costs Total Aerospace Flexonics costs Total Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 The Groups revenues from its major products is presented below: Notes m m m m m m m m Year ended Year ended 2018 2017 External revenue 759.4 322.7 1,082.1 724.7 298.7 1,023.4 m m Inter-segment revenue 1.0 0.2 1.2 0.6 0.1 0.7 Aerospace Structures 424.6 416.9 Total revenue 760.4 322.9 1.2 1,082.1 725.3 298.8 0.7 1,023.4 Aerospace Fluid Systems 334.8 307.8 Adjusted trading profit 80.4 26.1 15.5 91.0 76.6 20.0 14.7 81.9 Aerospace total 759.4 724.7 Share of joint venture Land vehicles 167.0 157.8 profit 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.7 Power & Energy and others 155.7 140.9 Adjusted operating profit 80.4 26.7 15.5 91.6 76.6 20.7 14.7 82.6 Flexonics total 322.7 298.7 UK Guaranteed Minimum Group total 1,082.1 1,023.4 Pensions 9 2.4 2.4 US class action lawsuits 9 3.9 3.9 Revenue of approximately 118.9m 2017 102.6m arose from sales to the Groups largest customer, revenue of approximately 113.8m 2017 Amortisation of intangible 119.6m arose from sales to the Groups second largest customer and revenue of approximately 108.8m 2017 97.2m arose from sales to assets from acquisitions 8.3 7.1 15.4 8.5 8.6 17.1 the Groups third largest customer.
Operating profit 72.1 19.6 21.8 69.9 68.1 12.1 14.7 65.5 Investment income 0.6 0.2 Geographical information Finance costs 9.2 9.7 The Groups operations are located principally in North America and Europe.
Loss on disposal 3.8 The following table provides an analysis of the Groups sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods.
The carrying values of Profit before tax 61.3 52.2 segment non-current assets are analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are located.
Tax 11.2 8.1 Segment Segment Profit after tax 50.1 60.3 Sales Sales non-current non-current revenue revenue assets assets Trading profit and adjusted trading profit is operating profit and adjusted operating profit respectively before share of joint venture profit.
See Note 9 for Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 2018 2017 2018 2017 the derivation of adjusted operating profit.
m m m m Segment information for assets, liabilities, additions to non-current assets and depreciation and amortisation is presented below: USA 513.7 478.2 343.4 318.8 UK 178.7 161.0 154.5 147.1 Year ended Year ended 2018 2017 Rest of the World 389.7 384.2 161.7 156.8 Assets m m Sub-total 1,082.1 1,023.4 659.6 622.7 Aerospace 723.1 667.8 Unallocated amounts 2.4 1.6 Flexonics 244.1 244.2 Total 1,082.1 1,023.4 662.0 624.3 Segment assets for reportable segments 967.2 912.0 Unallocated The unallocated amounts on non-current assets relate to deferred tax assets.
OPERATING PROFIT Cash 17.2 12.6 Deferred and current tax 5.1 2.6 Operating profit can be analysed as follows: Retirement benefits 30.9 19.4 Year ended Year ended Others 0.3 0.5 2018 2017 m m Total assets per Consolidated Balance Sheet 1,024.7 950.8 Revenue 1,082.1 1,023.4 Year ended Year ended Cost of sales 857.3 805.2 2018 2017 Gross profit 224.8 218.2 Liabilities m m Distribution costs 8.8 7.6 Aerospace 134.7 120.3 Administrative expenses 146.3 146.0 Flexonics 58.3 48.1 Loss profit on sale of fixed assets 0.4 0.2 Segment liabilities for reportable segments 193.0 168.4 Share of joint venture profit 0.6 0.7 Unallocated Operating profit 69.9 65.5 Central 14.1 11.0 Debt 170.0 167.2 Finance leases 0.2 0.5 Deferred and current tax 63.8 55.5 Retirement benefits 12.4 14.7 Others 3.0 1.9 Total liabilities per Consolidated Balance Sheet 456.5 419.2 88 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 89
