Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee members Sir Roy Gardner Chair Lynne Peacock John Rishton Dear Shareholders Mike Clasper, who was the Senior Independent NonDuring the year, the Committee reviewed the balance of Executive Director, stood down on 31 December 2018 skills on the Board to identify where additional skills would following which John Rishton was appointed as Senior be beneficial, reviewed the annual plan of agenda items to Independent Director and a member of the Nomination ensure all those matters required to be addressed by the Committee and Kirsty Bashforth was appointed Chair of the Committee were fully discussed and confirmed the renewal Corporate Responsibility Committee.
of appointments for further terms of three years for those Non-Executive Directors whose three year terms of appointment were due for renewal.
As part of the Committees objective to ensure the Board is continually refreshed, the Committee recommended that Sir Roy Gardner an additional Non-Executive Director with international Chair of the Nomination Committee experience should be recruited.
Following a selection 20 February 2019 process more fully described later in this report, Eric Born was appointed as Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees on 1 January 2019.
Committees responsibilities Activities of the Committee during 2018 The Board values diversity and when recruiting new Board During the year the Committees key activities included: members the issue of diversity is addressed by the Committee, with particular regard to the percentage The appointment of a non-executive director of women on the Board which currently stands at 33% As part of the ongoing process of ensuring the Boards 2017: 33%.
continuing refreshment, the Committee recommended that an additional non-executive director with, in The key responsibilities of the Committee are: particular, international experience should be recruited to Reviewing the size, structure and composition of the join the board.
Korn Ferry, which has no other connection Board and identifying candidates for appointment to with the Company, was appointed to identify potential the Board: candidates to match the specification prepared by the Recommending membership of Board Committees: Committee.
Undertaking succession planning for Directors and other Following the identification of several potential senior executives and ensuring that the leadership needs candidates, a shortlist of candidates was prepared by the of the organisation continue to be met: and Committee and members of the Committee and other Reviewing induction and training needs of Directors.
executive and Non-Executive Directors interviewed these shortlisted candidates.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Following these interviews, the Committee recommended to the Board that Eric Born should be appointed as a Membership and attendees Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and The Committee is comprised solely of independent NonCorporate Responsibility Committees.
The Board considers that each member of the Committee is independent within the definition set out Eric, who was duly appointed with effect from 1 January in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee met 2019, has attended meetings with members of the four times during the year and details of Committee Executive Committee and other key senior managers as membership and attendance at meetings are set out on page part of a comprehensive induction programme which will 89.
Meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the also include meetings with the Companys advisers and Group Chief Executive, the Group HR Director and the Group visits to contract sites.
General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Biographical details for each member of the Committee are provided on pages 84 and 85.
| 100 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Changes to Committee membership Mike Clasper, who was the Senior Independent Director, Gender diversity: Board Gender diversity: Senior Management stood down as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2018, which created opportunities for some further refreshment of roles on the Board and the Companys 67% 68% Committees.
John Rishton replaced him as Senior Independent Director and as a member of the Nomination Committee and Kirsty Bashforth took his place as chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Developing the Board Diversity Policy 33% 32% Serco strongly supports the principle of boardroom diversity and values the benefits that diversity of thought can bring to its Board and throughout Serco.
We believe that a mix of expertise, experience, skills and backgrounds including age, ethnicity, disability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, belief, culture, education and professional backgrounds allows Serco to deliver a great service that is valued by our customers and meets the Male Male needs of those who use the services we provide.
Serco will Female Female always seek to appoint Board members and senior management on merit against objective criteria, including diversity.
In developing the Board Diversity Policy, the Committee considered the voluntary recommendations Gender diversity: Board Gender diversity: Senior Management provided in the Hampton-Alexander Review on Women in Leadership Positions and the Parker Report into Ethnic Diversity and recommended that the Board commit to 67% 68% improving gender and ethnic diversity on the Board and in the senior management roles within Serco.
The Nomination Committee reviews and assesses the Board Diversity Policy annually and recommends any revisions to the Board for approval.
Details of the Groups Gender Diversity Policy and how we support development of 33% 32% female talent within Serco are provided on page 76.
The Board Diversity Policy is available on the Companys website.
Performance review The Committees performance was assessed as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
Although it was felt that the Committee worked effectively, it was agreed that the Male Male Committee should have a broader role and the general Female Female observation that changes of a procedural nature, including the more frequent review of processes, procedures and policies, would improve overall performance was considered appropriate to the Committee as well as the Board and will be implemented.
2019 priorities and focus During 2019, the Committee will continue to focus on developing its approach to succession planning for the Board, its Committees and the wider management team.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 101
