Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Board and Governance The Board has a comprehensive corporate governance framework, with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities to safeguard long-term shareholder value, which provides an effective platform to realise the Groups strategy.
Board and Governance structure Board of Directors Corporate Audit Nomination Remuneration Group Risk Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Approvals and Executive Investment Allotment Committee Committee Committee Board of Directors Committee comprised Committee comprised of Executive Board members solely of Board members and senior management The Companys governance structure is illustrated above.
There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board which is available on the Companys website.
The Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities to the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Group Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, the terms of reference of each of which are also available on the Companys website.
In addition, there is a Disclosure Group which meets to consider the disclosure of information to meet legal and regulatory obligations under Market Abuse Regulation.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and additionally comprises the Group Chief Financial Officer, Divisional Chief Executives, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group HR Director and the Group Director of Strategy and Communications.
The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board to ensure the effective direction and control of the business and to deliver the Groups long-term strategy and goals.
The Investment Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, and other members of the management team.
It acts on behalf of the Board to review, monitor and approve bids, mergers, acquisitions and disposals and other corporate activity within specific authority limits delegated by the Board.
The Approvals and Allotments Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
This Committee acts on behalf of the Board between Board meetings in respect of matters not specifically reserved to the Board, including the approval of documentation for shareholders and the allotment of shares.
The table below gives details of attendance of Board and Committee meetings during 2018: Corporate Board Audit Responsibility Group Risk Nomination Remuneration 1 Sir Roy Gardner 8 8 2 3 4 4 4 4 Rupert Soames 8 8 3 3 Angus Cockburn 8 8 Kirsty Bashforth 8 8 3 3 4 4 2 Mike Clasper 7 8 5 6 3 3 3 4 2 4 Ian El-Mokadem 8 8 3 3 4 4 Rachel Lomax 8 8 6 6 4 4 3 Lynne Peacock 7 8 5 6 4 4 4 4 John Rishton 8 8 6 6 4 4 4 4 1.
Sir Roy Gardner was unable to attend the Corporate Responsibility Committee meeting on 12 December 2018 due to illness.
Mike Clasper was unable to attend the Nomination Committee meeting on 10 September 2018 due to illness.
He was also unable to attend meetings of the Board and the Audit, Group Risk and Nomination Committees held on 31 October 1 November 2018 since he was recuperating following an operation.
Lynne Peacock was unable to attend meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee which were rescheduled to 11 December 2018, a date on which she already had prior commitments.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 89 Corporate Governance Report Board and Governance continued Board evaluation Appointment, induction and training During 2018, in response to recommendations arising from The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate the internal Board evaluation undertaken in 2017, a number of induction is provided to new Board members.
The induction improvements were made to internal procedures to improve programme is specifically tailored to the needs of the Board effectiveness.
Progress was made in the following incoming Director and includes circulation of the Board areas specifically noted for improvement: policies and procedures, meetings with senior management Strategy.
Briefing documentation was circulated to the and contract site visits.
Board in advance of the annual strategy meeting and several Non-Executive Directors met with Management During 2018, the Directors received advice and training on a and the consultants who assisted with the strategy review number of areas, including: before it took place.
Following the strategy review, there General Data Protection Regulation.
were opportunities for follow up discussion at subsequent Regulatory developments and changes to the UK Listing board meetings.
Detailed succession plans were Market Abuse Regulation.
discussed by the Board with particular reference to the Anti-bribery and corruption.
assumption of responsibilities previously held by the Money laundering.
Chief Operating Officer who left the Company on 31 December 2017.
Engagement with New accounting standards.
shareholders has been discussed on a regular basis by the Board and additionally the Remuneration Committee.
Although a number of initiatives were The Company has a policy which allows the Executive introduced or re-introduced, further consideration will Directors to accept directorships of other quoted companies be given to the training opportunities to be made and to retain the fees paid, provided that they have obtained available to Directors.
the prior permission of the Chairman.
In accordance with the Code, no Executive Director would be permitted to take on As indicated in the 2017 Annual Report, the external more than one Non-Executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 evaluation of the Board and its Committees, which it had company or the Chairmanship of such a company.
been intended to undertake during 2017, was deferred to provide an opportunity for the Non-Executive Directors who Angus Cockburn was a Non-Executive Director of GKN plc were appointed in 2017 to settle into their roles.
Senior Independent Director from 20 February 2018 until his resignation on 19 April 2018 following the acquisition of GKN An external evaluation was duly undertaken in 2018 by plc by Melrose Industries plc.
He was appointed as a Geoffrey Shepheard of ICSA Board Evaluation Limited which Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Audit Committee and a has no other connection with the Company.
This evaluation, member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of acknowledging progress on areas of improvement identified Ashtead Group plc on 9 October 2018. in previous internal evaluations, concluded that the Board continued to operate effectively, but that it would benefit Rupert Soames has been appointed as a Non-Executive from several changes of a procedural nature which would Director and a member of the Audit, Nomination and improve the overall performance of the Board and go some Remuneration Committees of DS Smith Plc with effect from way to helping the Board achieve its strategic goals.
In 1 March 2019. particular: More detailed reporting of the appraisals of NonConflicts of interest Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
Every Director has a duty to avoid a conflict between their More frequent review of processes, procedures and personal interests and those of the Company.
of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to A broader role for the Nomination Committee.
authorise situations identified by a Director in which he or she has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that The recommendations made in the report will be conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
implemented during the course of 2019.
The Board continues to undertake regular reviews of the external positions and interests or arrangements with third parties held by each Director and, where appropriate, to authorise those situational conflicts following consideration.
Notwithstanding the above, each Director is aware of his or her duty to notify the Board should there be any material change to their positions or interests during the year.
Directors do not participate in Board discussions or decisions which relate to any matter in which they have, or may have, a conflict of interest.
| 90 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
