Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report Audit Committee members John Rishton Chair Eric Born Rachel Lomax Lynne Peacock Dear Shareholders In 2019, the Committee will continue to focus on the critical I am pleased to present the Committees report for the year accounting judgements made, financial controls and the ended 31 December 2018 and to welcome Eric Born, who was operating performance of the new finance operating appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2019, as a structure and emerging risks arising from it.
The Audit Committee has a fundamental role to play in reviewing, monitoring and challenging the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting and internal control processes.
Details of the work carried out by the Committee and in addressing significant issues during 2018, which are reported to the Board as a John Rishton matter of course, are described in this report.
Chair of the Audit Committee 20 February 2019 Committees responsibilities The Committee met six times during the year and details of Committee membership and attendance at meetings are set The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its out on page 89.
In addition to the members of the responsibilities in respect of: overseeing the Groups financial Committee, the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of reporting processes: reviewing, challenging and approving Finance, the Head of Internal Audit, the Group General significant accounting judgements proposed by Counsel and Company Secretary and representatives of the management: the way in which management ensures and Companys External Auditor, KPMG LLP, attended and monitors the adequacy of financial and compliance controls: received papers for each meeting.
The Committee retain the appointment, remuneration, independence and time at the end of each meeting to meet separately without performance of the Groups External Auditor: and the management present and invite the Head of Internal Audit independence and performance of Internal Audit.
and KPMG LLP to attend for part of this session.
The Committee also meets privately with the Chief Financial The Terms of Reference for the Committee are available on Officer.
Performance review Membership and attendees The Audit Committees performance was assessed as part of The Committee is comprised solely of Independent Nonthe Boards annual effectiveness review.
In terms of Executive Directors.
The Board considers that each member enhancement to the Committees overall effectiveness, it was of the Committee is independent within the definition set out felt that the Committee worked effectively but should reflect in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and further on annual training needs and continue to visit that, between them, the members of the Committee bring contracts to help improve business understanding.
strong international, service and public sector expertise and experience which is highly relevant to the Company.
John Rishton is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and has served as Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer of large businesses, providing assurance to the Board that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the Code.
Biographical details for each member of the Committee are provided on pages 84 and 85.
| 94 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Activities of the Committee during the year Internal controls The Committee has an annual agenda plan developed from Assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control its Terms of Reference with standing items considered at environment and making recommendations to the Board: each meeting in addition to any specific matters arising and Receiving presentations from the Chief Financial Officers topical business or financial items on which the Committee of each division regarding the controls and risks in each of has chosen to focus.
The work of the Committee in 2018 the Divisions: principally fell into three main areas: Assessing the findings and directing the work of the Groups financial assurance function: Accounting, tax and financial reporting Receiving reports from Internal Audit on the audit Reviewing the integrity of the half-year and annual programme and resulting recommendations.
Where financial statements and the associated significant relevant, divisional and business unit management were financial reporting judgements and disclosures: invited to the Audit Committee to discuss the findings Considering the liquidity risk and the basis for preparing from Internal Audit reviews: the half-year and annual financial statements on a going In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee, concern basis, and reviewing the related disclosures in the considering the level of alignment between the Groups Annual Report and Accounts: key risks and Internal Audit programme: Considering the provisions of the Code regarding going Reviewing the proposed 2019 Internal Audit plan: concern and viability statements and reviewing emerging Reviewing the adequacy of resources of the Internal Audit practice and investor comment: function and considering and approving the scope of the Reviewing updates on accounting matters and new Internal Audit programme: and accounting standards, including the new accounting Considering reports from the External Auditor on their standards on financial instruments IFRS9, revenue assessment of the control environment.
IFRS15 and leasing IFRS16 : and Reviewing the processes to assure the integrity of the External auditor Annual Report and Accounts as well as reviewing: Considering and approving the audit approach and scope the management representation letter to the External of the audit undertaken by KPMG LLP as External Auditor Auditor: and their fees: the findings and opinions of the External Auditor: Agreeing reporting materiality thresholds: the disclosures in relation to internal controls and the Reviewing reports on audit findings: work of the Committee in discharging its Considering and approving letters of representation responsibilities: issued to KPMG LLP: that the information presented in the Annual Report Considering the independence of KPMG LLP and their and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced effectiveness, taking into account: and understandable and contains the information non-audit work undertaken by the External Auditor: necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups feedback from a survey targeted at various position and performance, business model and stakeholders: and strategy: the Committees own assessment.
the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that the Annual Report Making a recommendation to the Board on the and Accounts complies with all relevant legal and appointment of the External Auditor.
regulatory requirements: and the process designed to ensure the External Auditor is aware of all relevant audit information, as required by Sections 418 and 419 of the Companies Act 2006.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 95 Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report continued The output from key risk indicators associated with the risk Financial controls and significant financial judgements of financial control failure: and The Group aims to have a strong and well-monitored control environment that minimises financial risk and, as part of the Managements review of the output and adequacy of the Committees responsibilities, it reviews the effectiveness of Groups finance function first and second lines of defence, systems for internal financial control and financial reporting.
with a focus to deliver better assurance through system Where relevant, the Committee also works with the Group Risk controls and data analytics.
Committee to consider financial risk management.
Following review and challenge, the Committee believes that, Financial control risk is monitored through one of the Groups to the best of their knowledge and belief, the financial control Principal Risks, financial control failure.
The Committee has framework and the monitoring of this framework has worked reviewed this risk during 2018 and has focused in particular on: effectively during the year, and that in cases of nonThe impact of the Groups Finance Transformation compliance, the Group has not been exposed to critical, programme and risks associated with the delivery of severe or significant risk.
The Committee was also encouraged financial information under the new operating model, to note that where weaknesses in the financial control with briefings received from Management: framework were identified they continued to be addressed.
Updates to the risk mapping framework to document key financial control risks being managed by the Divisions and Business Units and the assurance activity undertaken to mitigate those risks: Issue and significance How the Committee addressed this Comments and conclusion Contract performance, including Onerous Contract Provisions OCPs As part of the 2014 Strategy Review, the The Committee has regularly reviewed The Committee agreed with Contract & Balance Sheet Review led to and challenged Managements Management and the External Auditor the establishment of material OCPs.
assumptions and main areas of that the overall level of provision was judgement in relation to the appropriate when taking into account performance of the Groups key the range of possible outcomes.
The Committee also concluded that the The Audit Committee gives particular assumptions and judgements made by focus to material OCP positions and, Management in the calculation of OCPs with the support of the External Auditor, were consistent with those prepared by agreed that, while accounting for OCPs Management for forecasting future remained an area of judgement, the profitability and cash flows, and that view formed by Management regarding adequate consideration was given to each individual material OCP and the contracts with low margins to assess aggregate view was considered whether any additional OCPs were reasonable.
As part of their review, the required to be recorded.
Committee also considered how the assessment of OCPs reflected other key judgements made by Management in respect of asset impairments, deferred tax asset recognition and future liquidity and viability.
Finance Transformation programme Management has completed the The Committee has been kept informed The Committee concluded that the new transition to the new finance operating of the progress through the Finance finance operating model was model developed through the Groups Transformation Programme and is being appropriate and progress was in line Finance Transformation programme in briefed on any risks and issues arising with expectations.
The operating model while the model is being embedded.
The Committee was satisfied that requires the new outsourced service Through its oversight of the Finance Management has taken sufficient steps provider to deliver the initial output of Transformation programme the to mitigate the risks associated with the the finance function through greater Committee has considered the potential Finance Transformation programme leverage of its centres of excellence, risks associated with the new finance and the ongoing management of the where processes can be standardised operating model and challenged new structure.
Management on the processes and controls put in place to mitigate those risks.
| 96 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Issue and significance How the Committee addressed this Comments and conclusion Use of Alternative Performance Measures APMs The Groups performance measures The Committee considered whether the The Committee agreed with continue to include some metrics which performance measures used by Management that Underlying Trading are not defined or specified under IFRS.
Management provided a meaningful Profit continued to be a reasonable In particular, following its introduction in insight into the results of the Company basis for the comparison of the 2015, Management continued to use for its shareholders.
Underlying Trading Profit, as a key The Committee reviewed the treatment The Committee also continued to measure to review current performance of items considered as being support the judgements made by against the prior year by removing the exceptional and requiring separate Management regarding the items impact of adjustments to OCPs, disclosure.
considered as being exceptional and material charges and releases of other requiring separate disclosure.
The The Committee also reviewed the items identified during the 2014 Committee concluded that, in relation proposed disclosure of APMs in both Contract & Balance Sheet Review, to the Half and Full Year 2018 results and the 2018 Half and Full Year results and together with other significant nonthe 2018 Annual Report, clear and the 2018 Annual Report ahead of their trading items.
meaningful descriptions had been approval by the Board.
provided for the APMs used.
It was also concluded that the relationship between these measures and the statutory IFRS measures was clearly explained and supported the understanding of the financial statements.
The Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2018 During the year the Groups Financial The Committee challenged the policy The Committee were satisfied that the Statements were prepared under IFRS9 choices made that determine how adoption of IFRS9 and IFRS15 have been and IFRS15.
revenue is recognised under IFRS15 and appropriately reflected in the Financial transition methods adopted in detail Statements for the current year and the IFRS9 has not had a material impact on with Management and the External prior year restatement.
The Committee are comfortable with Management performed a detailed The Committee have been briefed on the policy choices made and the assessment of the impact of IFRS15 and the expected impact of IFRS16 and the approach taken by Management in restated its prior 2017 numbers to project undertaken to prepare the respect of the adoption of IFRS16.
reflect the change in accounting Group for the new accounting standard.
The impact of IFRS16 is disclosed within Due to the significance of IFRS16, as note 2 of the Financial Statements.
Management updated the Groups with the adoption of IFRS15, the revenue recognition policies for Committee members took part in an long-term contracts to align with IFRS15.
IFRS16 education session held with the Management has implemented a new External Auditors and senior members piece of software and developed of the Group Finance team.
processes to manage the Groups lease data and enable the Group to account for leases under IFRS16 from 1 January 2019.
Goodwill Impairment A key area of judgement made by The methodology and the results of the The Committee were satisfied that the Management in recent years has been in impairment testing were presented to assumptions underlying the the assessment of the holding value of the Committee and were subject to impairments made in the year were goodwill.
Management proposed impairment placed particular focus on the discount Following review of the disclosures in charges and core to the assessment of rates applied and ensuring that the the financial statements, the Committee the value of goodwill is Managements underlying cash flows are consistent concluded that the disclosures were estimate of future cash flows.
This with the Board-approved forecasts.
transparent, appropriate and in estimate is dependent on circumstances The Committee also reviewed the compliance with financial reporting both within and outside of their control, disclosures included in the financial requirements.
and discount rates that are adjusted to statements to ensure that they provide reflect the risks specific to individual an appropriate level of information to assets.
No impairment of goodwill has users.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 97 Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report continued Issue and significance How the Committee addressed this Comments and conclusion Defined Benefit Pension Schemes The Groups defined benefit pension The Committee considered both the Following review, the Committee scheme obligations are an area of process undertaken by Management to concluded that the process followed Management focus, in particular finalise the assumptions for the main was appropriate and the resulting regarding the identification of schemes, including the additional conclusions reached and calculations obligations arising from customer liability associated with obligations in performed were appropriately balanced.
contracts and the calculation of financial respect of the equalisation of impact of any such liabilities.
Guaranteed Minimum Pensions, and how these assumptions benchmark against the market.
Advice was taken from independent actuaries on the appropriateness of the assumptions used.
Exceptional Items The Group has undergone a significant The Committee has scrutinised and The Committee concluded that the restructuring programme as a result of challenged Management on the items items recorded as exceptional were the Strategy Review undertaken in 2014. recognised as exceptional during the appropriate and that appropriate review As a result of this the Group incurred year to ensure consistent application of controls were in place to ensure that significant restructuring costs the Groups policy, which is in line with costs which should be recorded within associated with changes made to the FRC guidance, and the controls in place Underlying Trading Profit were not strategy, organisational structure and to ensure that appropriate restructuring instead recorded as exceptional.
underlying infrastructure required to costs are charged as exceptional items.
support the future growth in revenues and profit margins.
Viability Statement Internal Audit gives particular regard to the ongoing evaluation of the efficacy of the Groups financial controls In October 2018, the FRC Business model reporting: Risk and and reporting processes.
Internal Audit is headed by the viability reporting study was issued.
The Committee has Group Head of Internal Audit who reports functionally to the reviewed the 2018 Viability Statement in light of this study Chair of the Audit Committee ensuring independence is and believe that the Groups Viability Statement is maintained.
Internal Audit work with a co-sourced partner, appropriate and balanced in respect of highlighting the risks PwC, to supplement and enhance in-house skills and the Group is exposed to and the assumptions being made in resources where required.
During 2018, Internal Audit has assessing its viability.
delivered a full programme of audits making recommendations to management for improvements to risk, The Viability Statement is set out on pages 64 and 65. governance and controls.
Reports have been discussed with the parts of business they relate to and management actions Independent assurance agreed have been tracked for progress.
Key themes and The Groups Independent assurance structure is formed of management action progress have been included in regular Internal Audit and External Audit.
written updates to the Audit Committee.
Internal audits may focus on individual contracts, processes, functions or risk Internal Audit themes.
Internal Audit acts as a third line of defence providing independent assurance to the Board, Audit Committee and The 2019 Internal Audit programme will continue to focus on management, and in particular: the key risks across the business.
Provides objective, independent assurance and advice to management and the Audit Committee on the design and External Auditor operating effectiveness of the governance and internal The Audit Committee manages the relationship with the control processes in place to identify and manage Companys External Auditor on behalf of the Board.
In 2017, business risks: KPMG LLP were appointed by the Board as the Companys Delivers an annual programme of risk-based internal external auditor for the 2016 17 audit and have served as the audits, reporting findings and recommendations for Companys auditor for two years.
John Luke was appointed management actions to improve governance, risk as audit partner in 2018.
In accordance with the Revised management and controls to each Audit Committee Ethical Standard 2016, the Company will continue the meeting: and practice of the rotation of the audit engagement partner at Reviews the annual Internal Audit programme regularly least every five years.
throughout the year to ensure it remains focused on key risks, recommending changes to the Audit Committee for their approval.
| 98 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Committee evaluates the effectiveness of the external Non-audit fees audit annually, using feedback obtained from management The Committee limits the non-audit work undertaken by the associated with audits undertaken in Group Finance and in External Auditor and monitors the non-audit fees paid during the Divisions and by assessing the performance of the the year.
For the financial year ended 31 December 2018, the External Auditor against a range of criteria including calibre non-audit fees paid to KPMG LLP were 0.1m 2017: 0.1m.
of the audit team, knowledge of the Group, and the quality of The majority of the fees relate to the UK Government review planning, review, testing, feedback and reporting.
The where KPMG LLP is being used for continuity given the feedback received was reviewed by management and complex nature of the work performed, with their services in reported to the Committee.
After taking these reports into respect of the review commencing prior to KPMG LLPs consideration, the Committee concluded that the auditor appointment as External Auditor.
These services demonstrated appropriate qualifications and expertise and predominantly relate to data extraction under instruction remained independent of the Company, and that the audit from the Groups external lawyers and will end when the UK process was effective.
An analysis of fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the During the year, the FRC Audit Quality Review AQR team external auditor for the past two years is disclosed on page completed a review of KPMGs audit of Serco Group plcs 185.
The Committee regularly reviews the nature of non-audit 2017 financial statements.
The Committee considered the work performed by the External Auditor and the volume of findings of the review and discussed them with KPMG, and that work.
Focus is given to ensuring that engagement for the Chairman of the Committee also discussed the findings non-audit services does not: i create a conflict of interest: with the FRCs AQR team.
Whilst none of the findings were ii place the auditor in a position to audit their own work: regarded by the Committee as significant, some matters iii result in the auditor acting as a manager or employee: or were identified as requiring improvement and we are iv put the auditor in the role of advocate for the Company.
satisfied with the responses implemented by KPMG in the audit of the Groups 2018 financial statements.
Having undertaken a review of the non-audit services provided during the year, the Committee is satisfied that The Committee also reviewed the External Auditors these services were provided efficiently by the External engagement letter and determined the remuneration of the Auditor as a result of their existing knowledge of the business External Auditor in accordance with the authority given to it and did not prejudice their independence or objectivity.
The Committee considered the External Auditors remuneration to be appropriate.
It is proposed that KPMG LLP be re-appointed as External Auditor of the Company at the next AGM in May 2019 and, if so appointed, that they will hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
Further details are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is available on the Companys website.
The Independent Auditors Report to shareholders is set out on pages 140 to 150.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 99
