Governance Investor relations Stakeholder Engagement Primary investor events Additional investor engagement Presentations are made to shareholders and city analysts May 2017 London Roadshow following the release of the halfyear and fullyear results.
May 2017 Edinburgh Roadshow Furthermore, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer regularly meet shareholders during the year.
May 2017 US Roadshow The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also offer to meet June 2017 Geneva & Zurich Roadshow with our largest shareholders without the Executive Directors June 2017 BAML Utilities & Renewables Conference once every year and are available to meet with investors at any June 2017 Exane European CEO Conference other time upon request.
June 2017 RBC Reverse Roadshow In line with the Code, we recognise that the Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with July 2017 Scott Harris Roadshow shareholders takes place.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and the September 2017 Investor Site Visit Chief Financial Officer report shareholder views on Severn Trent September 2017 Citi Reverse Roadshow to the Board at least quarterly.
September 2017 Morgan Stanley Power and Utility Summit A clear Investor Relations strategy has been documented and agreed by the Board.
This sets out the Investor Relations September 2017 Bernstein Strategic Decisions Conference teams approach to identification of, and engagement with, the November 2017 London Roadshow Companys shareholders, sellside analysts and debt investors.
November 2017 US Canada Roadshow 2017 18 engagement November 2017 Edinburgh Roadshow During 2017 18, the key topics for our investors have been a November 2017 Geneva Roadshow combination of company specific,  January 2018 Citi European Utilities Conference factors and broader regulatory and political factors.
February 2018 London Roadshow At a company level, conversations with our investors have largely March 2018 US Roadshow focused on our performance against the three key regulatory outperformance levers of customer Outcome Delivery Incentives Institutional shareholders and analysts ODIs, Totex and financing.
In particular, questions have been targeted on how the outperformance to date has been achieved, The Board recognises the importance of representing and what areas have received specific attention and what scope there promoting the interests of its shareholders and that it is is for further improvement.
Investors have also been interested accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities in opportunities for further growth in our regulatory capital of the Company.
Various mechanisms have been put in place to value RCV, the performance of our nonregulated business, ensure it remains in touch with key activities and developments, inparticular our renewable energy activities, and the potential for including: further merger and acquisition activity in the sector.
We are also monthly update reports on the key shareholder engagement seeing an increased level of interest in our approach to Corporate activities carried out by the Executive Committee and the Social Responsibility.
Investor Relations team: Broader factors impacting Severn Trent and the water sector a monthly report of our shareholder register, outlining the have played a more significant part in investor conversations this significant buyers and sellers of Severn Trent Plc shares: and year.
In particular, the increased regulatory news flow relating regular summaries of sector research notes, allowing the to PR19 the price review process which will set prices for AMP7, Board to understand the key opinions being communicated the regulatory period for 202025 and the inclusion in the Labour toinvestors by sellside analysts.
Partys 2017 election manifesto of a policy to renationalise certain sectors, including the water sector, have dominated Retail shareholder engagement strategy recent conversations.
The Board has an active shareholder engagement strategy, Regarding PR19, there were two key announcements from Ofwat, themain elements of which are set out below.
in July and December 2017, in which it set out its methodology The Annual Report and Accounts is the principal means of that helped shape the regulatory framework for AMP7 and gave communicating with shareholders.
The Group has adopted clear guidance on how companies can outperform.
The focus ecommunications as an alternative method of sending company from investors has been on how these changes will impact information.
Following a consultation with shareholders in March Severn Trent and how well the Company is positioned to benefit 2017, a significant majority of shareholders, 85% elect to view from the sharpened incentive regime.
and download the Annual Report online, whilst 15% continue to The renationalisation debate has been at the forefront of receive a hard copy.
The next consultation will take place in 2019. investors minds since the general election in June 2017.
Our website contains an archive of Annual Reports together with In particular, they have sought to understand the likelihood of other information relevant to investors, including comprehensive it happening, should the Labour Party win the next general share price information, financial results, Company news and a election, and what the success story of the industry has been financial calendar.
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment since privatisation.
Plan DRIP, details of which are available on our website and the website of Equiniti, our registrar.
94 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Looking ahead to 2018 19 We have already established a structured programme of investor of being reached, including the submission of company business engagement for 2018 19, incorporating roadshows to many of the plans to Ofwat in September 2018 and the initial assessment of key locations where our shareholder base are located, including business plans by Ofwat in January 2019.
The dialogue with our London, Edinburgh and North America.
We have also confirmed shareholders on the risk of renationalisation will be maintained.
attendance at a number of industry conferences.
At a company level, the focus will likely remain on our ability to outperform the regulatory incentive mechanisms of customer We expect the PR19 process to be the key theme for investors ODIs, Totex and financing.
throughout 2018 19, with several key milestones in the process Tax Strategy We are committed to managing our tax affairs in a responsible Relationship with HMRC manner.
This means paying the right amount of tax at the right In maintaining a good working relationship with HMRC, we time in compliance with UK tax rules and acting in accordance seek to ensure that HMRC are kept up to date with business with the values set out in our Corporate Responsibility developments, including any commercial transactions with Framework.
References to tax include taxes that we incur potentially significant tax implications.
Where queries arise, corporation tax, business rates, employers NIC, VAT and these are managed on the basis of full disclosure.
We will various environmental taxes as well as taxes that we administer make representations to, and consult with, HMRC on issues and collect on HMRCs behalf PAYE and employees NIC.
that could adversely affect investment in UK infrastructure orour customers bills.
Our approach to tax Our approach to tax is overseen by the Severn Trent Plc Board Non-UK operations and is governed by the following key principles: Substantially all of the Groups revenues and profits are We will manage our tax affairs responsibly, in a manner generated in the UK and are subject to UK tax.
Details of consistent with our vision to be the most trusted water the Groups overseas subsidiaries at 31 March 2018 are set company by 2020: out below: We will not undertake aggressive tax planning Severn Trent Response Limited is a 60% owned subsidiary or any planning not otherwise in support of company operating in Ireland.
It designs, builds, operates business requirements: and maintains water infrastructure assets in Ireland and is subject to Irish tax.
We will make use of widely claimed incentives that Government has chosen to make available to encourage Lyra Insurance Guernsey Limited and Derwent Insurance investment: and Limited are wholly owned subsidiary companies incorporated in Guernsey and Gibraltar respectively.
We will maintain an open, transparent and collaborative They were established to provide insurance services to the relationship with HMRC consistent with maintaining our Group.
Both companies are subject to the UK Controlled good working relationship.
Foreign Company CFC rules and therefore the Group The effective management of our tax affairs is in the best incurs tax at the UK Corporation Tax rate on their profits.
interests of customers as it helps to keep our bills as low Severn Trent Holdings SA is a wholly owned subsidiary as possible.
It was the holding Tax Governance company for businesses that the Group previously owned Responsibility for tax governance sits with the Chief Financial in Belgium.
Following the disposal of those businesses the Officer, with oversight from the Board and Audit Committee holding company was retained to deal with a number of and daytoday support from a team of qualified inhouse legacy legal issues.
These issues have now been resolved tax professionals.
and the Group is considering options for liquidating the company.
This company is subject to Belgian tax.
In accordance with Group risk management procedures, tax risks are recorded and monitored throughout the year.
Severn Trent Africa Pty Ltd is a dormant company If a material uncertainty is identified, external advice may incorporated in South Africa.
It has no impact on the be sought to ensure that our interpretation of the relevant Groups tax.
UK tax rules is appropriate.
We may also seek to resolve Scope an uncertain tax position directly with HMRC before a tax This Tax Strategy covers the period ended 31 March 2018 return is filed, in accordance with HMRCs framework for and applies to Severn Trent Plc and its UK subsidiary cooperative compliance.
It is published in compliance with the Finance Any significant tax risk is reported to, and overseen by, Act 2016 requirement for large businesses to publish their the Groups Audit Committee, who also receive tax status tax strategy.
updates as part of the interim and year end financial reporting programmes.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95
