Governance Treasury Committee report Accountability Introduction As Chairman of the Treasury Committee, I am pleased to introduce this report which details the role of the Committee and the important work it has undertaken during the year.
The Committee has continued to play a key role in supporting the Board in monitoring performance against the Groups approved treasury policy and annual treasury plan, reviewing in detail the Groups funding requirements and providing oversight of the Groups key financing risks and opportunities.
John Coghlan Chairman of the Treasury Committee Treasury Committee Responsibilities The Committee has focused The responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include: on the ensuring that the Group oversight of treasury activities in implementing approved treasury policies: has sufficient ongoing liquidity oversight of interest rate and inflation risk management to meet the committed funding strategies.
In particular, the monitoring of the impact of changes in forecast interest rates and inflation on requirements of its regulated Group earnings: and non-regulated businesses, oversight of the Groups funding strategy: provided through a sustainable, monitoring the Groups exposure to financial institution credit risk: resilient financial structure.
monitoring the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk: John Coghlan monitoring the Groups exposure to financial liquidity risk: Chairman of the Treasury Committee receiving updates on general financial market movements: and oversight of treasury internal controls.
Key areas of Focus in 2017 18 Attendance table The Committee provides Board oversight of the Groups key Member of the Meetings Max Treasury Committee attended possible financing risks and opportunities.
John Coghlan 6 6 Some key areas of discussion for the Committee during 2017 18 included: Philip Remnant 6 6 James Bowling 6 6 the impact of prevailing economic conditions on the accurate forecasting of longterm interest rates and associated interest The members of the Committee in 2017 18 are shown above.
rate and inflation risk management policy: The Group Treasurer is also a member of the Committee, but not the impact of Brexit on existing and future sources of funding a member of the Board of Directors.
for the Groups businesses: The Treasury Committee Terms of Reference were updated in the introduction of CPIlinked debt into the Groups debt mix: March 2018 and can be found at www.
com analysis of Ofwats proposed PR19 cost of debt methodology, Only members of the Committee have the right to attend including an early view of the impacts of a number of scenarios Committee meetings.
In addition to the attendance set out above, on the Companys credit metrics going forward: and Andrew Duff, Kevin Beeston, the Group Commercial Director and the Group Financial Controller normally attend, by invitation, all the review of the Groups European Medium Term Note meetings of the Committee.
Other individuals may be invited to Programme and approval for bonds to be issued pursuant attend meetings as and when appropriate.
tothat Programme during the year.
To ensure that the Companys treasury practices are in line with best practice, the Committee has access to advice from advisers.
Evercore are independent advisers to the Committee, with no other connection to the Company, and provide regular market updates to the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives is objective and independent.
During 2017 18, the Committee held one additional quorate meeting convened at short notice.
90 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
