Governance Governance Framework Leadership & Effectiveness Board of Directors Responsible and accountable for the long term success of the Severn Trent Group: ensuring Severn Trent delivers the Groups strategic objectives whilst operating to the highest standards of corporate governance in meeting its obligations to all stakeholders.
Board Committees Nominations Audit Committee Corporate Remuneration Treasury Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Assists the Board in discharging its Committee Provides oversight of Keeps the structure, Determines the treasury activities in responsibilities for size, composition and Companys policy on Provides guidance implementing the the integrity of the succession needs the remuneration of and direction to the policies, funding Companys financial of the Board under Executive Directors, Companys and treasury risk statements, the review and assists other members of the Corporate management plan assessment of the Board on conflicts Executive Committee Responsibility including: the the effectiveness of interest and and the Chairman of and Sustainability measurement and of the systems of independence issues.
programme management of risks Internal Control, in respect of interest based on Severn Read more on Read more on Risk Management rates: funding: Trents values and pages 96 to 128 pages 80 to 82 counterparty credit: and scrutinises the reviews the Groups liquidity and work of the Internal non-financial risks treasury operations: and External Auditors.
funding proposals: It also reviews relationship with Read more on the adequacy of the rating agencies: debt pages 91 to 93 Companys investor relations: whistleblowing bank relationship arrangements.
management: and treasury Read more on internal controls.
pages 83 to 89 Read more on page 90 Severn Trent Executive Committee STEC Executive Sub-Committee Oversees the development and execution of Group strategy, with Disclosure Committee accountability for achieving financial and operational performance.
Executive Sub-Committee overseeing Severn Trents compliance with its disclosure CEO Liv Garfield obligations, considering the materiality, Delegated responsibility for the development and implementation of strategy accuracy, reliability and timeliness of and overall commercial objectives, and responsible for the day-to-day information disclosed and assessment management of the business and the communication of Board agreed ofassurance received.
Matters Reserved to the Board Board strategy days Governance Corporate Terms of Reference for Training Framework Board Committees Governance Board Effectiveness Review Charter of Expectations Policies and procedures Foundations Code Doing the Right Thing Diversity independence theSevernTrent Way Group Authorisation Arrangements Conflicts of Interest review Membership of the Treasury Committee includes Head of Group Treasury, a non-Board position.
72 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information The Board is responsible to all stakeholders, including the Conflicts Companys shareholders, for the approval and delivery of the The Board formally considers conflicts of interest at every Groups strategic objectives.
It makes sure that the necessary meeting, and reviews the authorisation of any potential conflicts financial, technical and human resources are in place for the of interest every six months.
Company to meet its objectives.
The Board leads the Group within a framework of practical and effective controls which Group Authorisation Arrangements enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The GAA is the framework through which the Severn Trent Plc Responsibility for the development and implementation of the Board authorises the right people, at the right level, to take Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives is delegated important decisions to effectively control and manage legal, to the Chief Executive who is supported by the Severn Trent financial and administrative decisions throughout the Group.
These arrangements are reviewed annually, with the last review undertaken in April 2018.
In compliance with the Code, the Board also delegates certain roles and responsibilities to its various Committees, which The flow of authority is from the Severn Trent Plc Board to the assist by focusing in detail on their particular areas, reporting Chief Executive and the Severn Trent Executive Committee.
to the Board on decisions and actions theyve taken, and making In respect of certain decisions, the delegated authority is subject any necessary recommendations in line with their Terms to an obligation to work with specialist business service areas of Reference.
such as Tax, Treasury, Group Finance, Group Commercial and General Counsel, which provides additional expertise and a Charter of Expectations group-wide perspective.
The Severn Trent Charter of Expectations sets out clearly the defined roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Doing the Right Thing the Severn Trent Way Officer, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive In addition to the Charter of Expectations and Terms of Directors, the operation of the Board and Board Committees, Reference for the Board, and the company-wide GAA, Severn and also reflects the Boards responsibility for setting the tone of Trent also sets out the cultural tone expected of its workforce the Groups culture, values and behaviour.
In accordance with the through clearly defined values and standards of behaviour that Code, it sets out a clear division of responsibilities between the are expected from everyone who works for the Severn Trent roles of Chairman and CEO.
Its Code of Conduct Doing the Right Thing the Severn The Charter of Expectations is reviewed annually, with the Trent Way has been rolled out across the Group in the form of last review undertaken in March 2018.
Its also used to assist all-employee training programme, is integral to the induction in the ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of the Board process and is continuously re-enforced by management to and its Committees and that of individual Directors see makesure that all of our people embody Severn Trents values: page 79 for further details.
It is available on our website we put our customers first: www.
we are passionate about what we do: Matters Reserved to the Plc Board we act with integrity: The Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board sets out we protect our environment: and the processes in place regarding the Boards tasks and we are inspired to create an awesome company.
activities and the matters specifically reserved for the Our Code of Conduct is key to helping us achieve our vision Boards decision making.
A copy is available on our website ofbeing the most trusted water company by 2020. www.
We know that the right culture must be set from the top.
The Board has reserved the following matters, amongst others, Our annual employee engagement survey, QUEST, is therefore for its own consideration: designed to provide us with actionable data in a clear and the Groups strategic and operating plans: comprehensive form, giving us a better understanding on whats financial reporting and controls: going well and what can be improved across the whole of our business.
QUEST is carried out by an independent research major acquisitions and disposals: company to ensure the results are anonymous and results are key Group policies: and reported to the Board.
Policies, Standards and Procedures Terms of Reference In addition to our Code of Conduct, Severn Trent has an The Terms of Reference for each Board Committee are additional 12 policies which apply to everyone who works for reviewedannually, updated to take account of best practice, the Severn Trent Group.
These policies have been designed to andto reflect the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance help employees and contractors understand their role within Code asrevised from time to time.
the Company and their responsibility to the Severn Trent The sub-committee structure is detailed in the Governance Group.
They also, in turn, outline the Groups responsibility to Framework on page 72 and key responsibilities are set out the individual.
These policies are the strategic link between onpage 74. the Severn Trent vision and how we manage our day-to-day business, and are underpinned by specific company standards and procedures.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Governance Key Board responsibilities Leadership & Effectiveness Board composition, roles and attendance Where Directors have not been able to attend meetings, they have still received related papers in advance of the scheduled meeting and any input they have provided has been considered.
The Board held seven scheduled meetings during the year, and the key roles of individuals and their attendance is set out overleaf.
For additional information on the activities of the Board, see pages76 and 77.
There were 11 additional ad hoc meetings of the Board or Committee of the Boardconvened throughout the year.
Director Responsibility Chairman Andrew Duff Leads our unified Board and is responsible for its effectiveness.
Sets agendas and ensure timely dissemination of information to the Board, in consultation withCEO, CFO and Company Secretary.
Responsible for scrutinising the performance of the Executive Committee.
Facilitates contribution from our Directors.
Ensures effective communication with our shareholders and other stakeholders.
CEO LivGarfield Develops and implements the Groups strategy, as approved by the Board.
Responsible for the overall commercial objectives of the Group.
Promotes and conducts Group affairs with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
Sets the cultural tone of the organisation.
CFO James Bowling Manages the Groups financial affairs.
Supports the CEO in the implementation and achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
SID Kevin Beeston Supports the Chairman in delivery of his objectives.
Alternative contact for shareholders should they have a concern that is unresolved by the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
Leads the appraisal of the Chairmans performance with the Non-Executive Directors.
Key role in succession planning forthe Board, together with the Board Committees, Chairman, and NEDs.
NED John Coghlan Constructively challenge our Executive Directors in all areas.
Dominique Monitor the delivery of strategy by the Executive Committee within the risk and control Reiniche framework set by the Board.
Dame Angela Satisfy themselves that internal controls are robust and that the External Audit is Strank undertaken properly.
Philip Remnant Responsible for agreeing appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors.
Key role in succession planning forthe Board, together with the Board Committees, Chairman, and SID.
Executive Emma FitzGerald Responsible for the Groups wholesale business until 31 December 2017.
Director until 31.12.17 Supported the CEO in the implementation and achievement of the Groups strategic objectives until 31 December 2017.
74 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Board attendance April 17 May 17 June 17 July 17 Aug 17 Sept 17 Oct 17 Nov 17 Dec 17 Jan 18 Feb 18 Mar 18 Board Meeting Audit Nominations Remuneration Treasury CR i i i i i i Director Attendance Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Andrew Duff 7 7 4 4 6 6 2 3 LivGarfield 7 7 3 3 James Bowling 7 7 6 6 ii Kevin Beeston 6 7 4 4 4 4 6 6 iii John Coghlan 6 7 4 4 3 4 6 6 Dominique Reiniche 7 7 4 4 3 3 Dame Angela Strank 7 7 4 4 6 6 3 3 Philip Remnant 7 7 3 4 4 4 6 6 6 6 Emma FitzGerald until 31.12.17 5 5 i Includes the scheduled Board meetings.
Some additional meetings have been required to cover specific matters throughout the year.
ii Kevin Beeston was unable to attend a Board meeting due to illness during the year.
iii John Coghlan was unable to attend a Board and Committee meeting due to a bereavement.
Committee membership key Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Treasury Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Board Nominations Committee Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Governance Key Board responsibilities continued Leadership & Effectiveness Board activities Summary Board Activities 2017 18 The table below sets out the main matters considered by the Board in 2017 18 at its scheduled Board meetings and the Overview updates covered as part of its Lunch and Learn and operational All Board meetings are a full days agenda consisting of: site visit sessions.
The Boards agenda is ordinarily structured Procedural matters: Performance Reviews: Strategy: Items as follows: forapproval noting.
Further details are provided below: procedural matters including Board Committee reports : Board Focus Topics & Actions performance review including health and safety, operational, Procedural matters customer and financial matters : Agreeing minutes of last meeting, reviewing progress against strategic items: and specific actions.
Updates from the Chairman of each Board Committee has been strategically moved to this early part of the items for approval noting including the Company Secretarys agenda to reflect the importance of the Committees activities.
Update on governance, legal and regulatory issues.
See Committee reports on pages 80 to 93 for further details.
This structure has been agreed to ensure that Matters Reserved to the Board are addressed appropriately and that the Boards Performance Reviews time is spent effectively.
Strategic items are regularly presented Reviews are received from the CEO and CFO at every meeting to the Board by senior managers within the business, giving and from Directorates at regular intervals.
There has been a the Directors the opportunity to meet with key members of strong focus on Production, Customer Delivery and Capital management who report into the Executive team.
This also Delivery & Commercial during the year.
The financial reviews assists the succession planning process.
have included consideration of the Annual Report and Accounts and the pension scheme funding, in addition to budget and Board strategy days dividend approval.
From 2018, separate operational reviews for In addition to formal meetings at which strategic matters are the Regulated Business and those for Business Services have regularly reviewed, in June 2017 the Board held a dedicated been introduced to better reflect how the Groups divisions operate.
strategy meeting along with the Executive Committee to consider Strategy areas of future value creation across the Group and spent time Whilst the following is not an exhaustive list of all the matters considering asset strategy and potential future disruptors, the Board have considered during the financial year, it does regulatory strategy and growth strategies across our portfolio indicate the key areas of activity and hopefully provide insight of businesses.
For 2018, success of the PR19 plans are key, into the strategic workings of the Board: therefore a good portion of the Boards strategy meeting is Upper Quartile: As part of its focus on achieving and scheduled to focus on this.
Over the medium to long term its maintainingUpper Quartile retail, water and waste performance anticipated that opportunities and risks to the business will come as measured by Ofwat, the Board have reviewed a route map of from emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence and key milestones on outputs so it can monitor progress towards robotics so this will be on the agenda, together with mergers and achieving this aspiration.
acquisitions and a discussion about our future people strategy.
M&A Strategy: The Board have continued to keep merger and The format of each day involves a few topics being discussed acquisition opportunities under review and gave more detailed in-depth: with external speakers to challenge thinking and an consideration to this matter at its Strategy Day.
interactive approach to each of the conversations.
Bioresources Trading: The Board have been considering the opportunities created by the development of this market.
Technology and potential investment opportunities have been discussed and considered in more depth at its Strategy Day.
Insourcing Opportunities: To address service issues, the Board have considered proposals for insourcing, exploring alternative models and seeking practical worked examples from management for specified issues and considering the resources required in each case.
Water Resources Management Plan: The Board have challenged the prescribed methodology and drilled down in terms of the assumptions, variances and scenarios in addition to simply testing alternative methodologies, applying the expertise of those Board members who have the skills set forsuch matters.
Dee Valley Water Limited Board Composition: Further to consultation with Ofwat, the Board, in consultation with theNominations Committee, have considered the future make-up of the Dee Valley Water Limited Board, appointed theChairman of this Board and appointed three new Independent Non-Executive Directors.
76 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Customer Service: As well as receiving updates on performance Cyber Security: Given the Cyber Security landscape continues at every meeting the Board met with CCW for both England and to evolve with an increasing level of activity and a number of Wales to listen to its perspective on Customers views on Severn high profile incidents for other companies and government Trents performance.
departments, the Board has received an update on the Companys Cyber Security Roadmap during the year.
It noted OSUK&I Update: Following the transfer of customers to Water the scrutiny by the National Cyber Security Centre, its risk based Plus and the sale of its Italian and US businesses, the Board has approach and investment priorities, and increased in-house reviewed the operational effectiveness of its Business Services support and positive reviews by Defra and PwC.
operations in the UK and Ireland and the future structure of this division of the business moving forward, commending GDPR: The Board recognises that the implementation of GDPR management on markedly improved customer satisfaction and is challenging but through a considered update during the year better performance.
It is keeping opportunities for growth and was reassured about what has to be done by management the risk profile of each business unit under review.
in order to prepare for it.
It has scheduled future updates to review progress.
PR19: This price review is a particularly challenging area this year further details on pages 16 to 17 and the Board has Innovation Investment Review: The Board reviewed the therefore spent a commensurate amount of time on it to enable work of the innovation team and the progress that has been progressive scrutiny.
made to accelerate the pace of application in deploying valuegenerating technology.
Enterprise Risk Management ERM Update: The Board receives six monthly updates on ERM risks.
Following its Items for approval noting feedback to management, the Board now receives Cost to This is a standing item on the agenda to meet the requirements Target and Flightpath analysis on Board level risks, the former of the business in terms of approving matters such as providing confirmation that risk reduction actions have been leases andland disposals, the alignment of water licences reflected in the budgeting process, business plans and long particularlyin light of re-defining the English Welsh boundaries range plans, and the latter mapping out the risk reduction over following the acquisition of Dee Valley Water Limited, and time.
The combined effect of these enhancements now provides setting tariff charges.
This itemalways includes the Company the Board with greater insight to enable reprioritisation of such Secretarys Update to address regular reviews of governance risks enabling more efficient risk reduction.
The Board is also matters byway of example see annual reviews shown below, rolling out true cost of control approach across all ERM risks.
keep abreast of regulatory changes and obtain Board approvals Health, Safety and Wellbeing Strategy: The Board received an forspecific matters reserved to the Board.
update and noted pleasing progress with the achievement of Annual Governance Reviews: certain important milestones during the year see page 41 for Directors conflicts of interest: further information but acknowledges there are still further Gifts and Hospitality Register: issues to improve upon and the cultural challenge continues.
Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement: Property Strategy: The Board considered the new clear strategy and approved the communication of property profits to the market Board Diversity Policy: and the inclusion of property profits in future business targets Sharesave Invitation: to reflect the value arising from that strategy in the Companys Board Evaluation Process: share price.
Board Committee Terms of Reference: Review of Water Plus Performance: The Board receives six Charter of Expectations: monthly updates on Water Plus.
Whilst the business has been competing well in the market, the Board keeps the performance Matters Reserved to the Board: of Water Plus under close scrutiny.
Group Authorisation Arrangements: and HomeServe Update: The Board has reviewed the HomeServe Feedback from Institutional Shareholders.
Lunch and Learn Sessions Re-nationalisation Debate: The Board has been closely The Boards time has been maximised by utilising the time spent following topical debate around the proposal by the Labour over lunch to conduct deepdives into topics such as: Party in its May 2017 election manifesto to re-nationalise Investor Technology Day: utilitiesincluding the water sector.
Building an ethical culture: Water Quality: The Board met with the DWI and invited it to give feedback on the Companys water quality performance, both in HS2, update on route, programmes and costs: terms of current performance and challenges for the next AMP.
Nationalisation Defence Debate: Business Security and Resilience Review: The Board have kept Water Forum: and abreast of progress during the year through its established Responding to customers: Inspiring the next generation incident management steering group which continually reviews ofwater users.
and learns from incidents, both planned events and real incidents.
It receives reports which include a guide path showing progress against specified targets.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Governance Effectiveness Leadership & Effectiveness Term of office Induction programme The Board recognises the Codes recommendation that Directors Whilst there have been no new appointments to the Board serve a fixed term of appointment and considers plans for of Severn Trent Plc during the year, there is an induction orderly succession to the Board to maintain an appropriate programme in place which can be tailored as applicable and balance of skills and experience within the Company.
As such, includes the following elements details: the Company maintains a clear framework of Non-Executive Ofwat pre-appointment process: Director tenure and the skill set that each Director provides.
Company structure including regulatory overview Individual Directors biographies can be found on pages 68 and and performance: 69.
In accordance with the Code, all the Directors will retire at Company strategy: this years AGM and submit themselves for reappointment by shareholders.
An overview of tenure for the Board is shown in the Key stakeholder relations including customers, suppliers, table on page69.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors seeking regulators and service providers: reappointment at the AGM is considered by the Board to be Key operations and processes including operational areas and independent in character and judgement.
key sites: Financial performance including analyst and investor opinion: Diversity Our people including health, safety and wellbeing, talent The Board and Nominations Committee are committed to and succession, trade unions and an overview of our diversity.
Female representation on the Board exceeds 30% Remuneration Policy: in respect of the main Board and is 40% on the Executive Committee see table on page 69.
There is also a continual Group risk profile and our approach to risk: focus on promoting wider diversity.
We believe that our Company Governance Framework: should reflect our communities and customers, and embrace Board calendar, effectiveness reviews and action plans: and a diverse range of perspectives, experiences and expertise to Insight into key areas of focus for any specific appointment.
support our long term viability and commercial success.
We will continue to enhance the Boards induction process, We are committed to developing our talent pipeline, to ensure particularly bearing in mind feedback from new appointees.
we have appropriate representation from minority ethnic candidates, as well as other relevant diverse groups.
You can find The new Independent Non-Executive Directors of Dee Valley additional details on our progress and ambitions on page 81 of Water Limited received an appropriate induction facilitated by the Nominations Committee report and details of diversity across the Company Secretary covering the above topics, as well as a theSevern Trent Group on page 81. tour of key operational sites to understand our water treatment and distribution processes, and the customer journey, in a live Training and continuing professional environment, as follows: development Water process from rain to tap: As well as Board agenda items, training sessions in relation to Waste water process from drain to river: and specific topics of interest that were presented to Directors during Customer journey from moving into a new home to the year are set out on page 77. moving out.
The aim of the training sessions is to continually refresh and expand the Boards knowledge and skills to enable them to Independence of NEDs fulfil their roles effectively on the Board and its Committees and The independence of our Non-Executive Directors is formally contribute to discussions on technical and regulatory matters.
reviewed annually by the Nominations Committee, and as part The sessions also serve as an opportunity for the Board to of the Board evaluation exercise.
The Nominations Committee discuss strategy and risks with management below Executive and Board consider that there are no business or other Committee level and gain further insight into our businesses and circumstances that are likely to affect the independence of any management capability.
Non-Executive Director and that all Non-Executive Directors continue to demonstrate independence.
The Board recognises Directors resources the Codes recommendation that Directors serve a fixed term An online resource library and Continuing Professional of appointment and considers plans for orderly succession Development CPD repository is available for use by the to the Board to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and Directors, which is constantly reviewed and updated.
The library experience within the Company.
Individual Director biographies includes a Corporate Governance Manual, a Results Centre and can be found on pages 68 and 69.
In accordance with the Code, Investor Relations section, Strategy Day materials and details of all the Directors will retire at this years AGM and submit Board training sessions.
It also contains a further reading section themselves for reappointment by shareholders.
Each of the which covers updates and guidance on changes to legislation Non-Executive Directors seeking reappointment are considered and corporate governance best practice.
The Directors also have to be independent in judgement and character.
access to professional development provided by external bodies and our advisers.
CPD requirements were considered, through individual performance review meetings between the Chairman and each Director, as part of the externally facilitated Board effectiveness review in 2017 18.
78 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Board Evaluation Leadership & Effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board and of the Boards committees is The process for the 2017 18 review is set out below: reviewed annually and progress is reviewed every six months.
Step 1 MSP briefed by Chairman and Company Secretary and An independent externally facilitated review of the effectiveness attended the January Board Meeting in order to observe ofthe Board is conducted every three years.
An externally the Board first hand.
They were also provided with access facilitated evaluation was therefore undertaken this year, the to prior years Board and Committee papers and minutes last having taken place in 2014 15.
Manchester Square Partners and details of the previous internal reviews and progress MSP, who undertook the previous review, were chosen updates to provide relevant background material.
to facilitate the exercise to provide continuity and measure progress against their prior review.
MSP has no other connection Step 2 MSP conducted face-to-face interviews with each Director withthe Company.
and theGeneral Counsel and Company Secretary.
Step 3 MSP produced a report setting out their findings While the Board was functioning well at the time of the last which they discussed with the Chairman and Senior external review a number of areas were highlighted for attention: Independent Director.
Details of their observations and Strategy: While there was alignment at a high level on the suggested focus areas are shown below, togetherwith strategic priorities there was more to be done on agreeing the related actions arising from the evaluation process.
the strategic opportunities to be pursued and the plans to Step 4 The Chairman met with each of the Directors and the achieve these.
General Counsel and Company Secretary to discuss Pace of change: There was a need to ensure the pace of the performance of the Board and their individual change could be delivered in a sustainable way, with the contributions.
The Senior Independent Director met with Boardconsidering major change earlier in the process, the Non-Executive Directors to discuss the performance soas to be able to review over several meetings and provide of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met to appropriate support and challenge.
discuss the performance of the Chief Executive Officer.
Mentoring: Talent management and succession planning were Step 5 MSPs report discussed by the Nominations Committee identified as needing further focus once the new Executive in its consideration of the re-election ofDirectors and team was in place.
reported to the full Board at its meeting in April 2018, Board Agenda: Change suggested to provide more time together with a recommendation by MSP.
to discuss a range of strategic opportunities and other key Step 6 Six-monthly reviews of progress against initiatives, whilst not losing focus on performance and finance.
MSP concluded that significant progress had been made since 2014 15 and there had been a noticeable step change in the focus, MSP reported favourably against all dimensions to the 2017 18 alignment, contribution and effectiveness of the Board with well review with noticeable alignment on strategy and areas of planned and structured board agendas.
Overall, the Board functioned extremely well and in line with first class corporate governance.
There were only two areas requiring further development, as follows: Continuing to maintain focus on strategic, operational and reputational priorities other than PR19: and A more structured plan for succession planning and talent development discussions at Nominations Committee and the Board.
Step 1 Briefing and observation Step 5 Step 2 Presentation Face-to-face to the Board and interviews Review dimensions consideration by Nominations Strategy, challenges and risks, and values and culture, Committee Role of the Board, Board dynamics and engagement, Structure of the Board, its composition and succession planning, Governance, execution and leadership.
Step 4 Step 3 Individual MSP report meetings with on findings Chairman SID Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79
