Strategic report Managing our critical resources and relationships Every day, we rely on six key resources and relationships to support thelong-term sustainability of our business.
On these pages we explain these resources andrelationships in detail, and showcase a number of practical examples of how we managed them over the last year.
This year we have integrated our CR metrics among our commentary on managing our critical resources and relationships.
Positive engagement Water Framework Hectares improved from withlandmanagers  unfavourable or deteriorating improvement points condition using Natural Englands database of SSSIs 85% 19 2017: 44% 9.86 2017: 15 2017: 29.74 Expected EA rating Number of Environment Reduction in Group AgencyCategory 1 & 2 incidents carbonemissions calendar year metric 4 2017: 3 4.4% 2 scope 1 and 2 ourdirect emissions and thosefrom theenergy we use 2017: 7 2017: 8.3% 44 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our natural resources Maintaining our reservoirs, rivers andunderground aquifers Were fortunate to be responsible for some of the UKs most impressive natural resources.
From the chain of man-made lakes created by damming the Elan and Claerwen rivers in Wales, which provide clean water to Birmingham, to stunning stretches of rivers such as the Severn, the Dee and the Trent, these wonderful resources provide the raw materials for our services.
Despite the relatively dry winter, our reservoirs were full at the end of the financial year, and were in a strong position to ensure areliable supply to customers during the year ahead.
Working with landowners... Prevention is better than cure, so we work hard to make sure that the water entering our watercourses is as clean Helping farmers step up as possible.
Supported by the skills of a dedicated team tothechallenge of agricultural advisers, the Severn Trent Environmental Protection Scheme STEPS aims to improve watercourses Prevention can be more cost-effective than treatment, andthe wider environment.
particularly when it comes to pesticides which can enter STEPS provides grants of up to 5,000 for infrastructure ourrivers from surrounding fields.
Through STEPS we offer improvement and land management changes in our target farmersgrants of up to 5,000 per year to undertake works areas.
This is part of our plan to invest 21 million by 2020 to which will help reduce pollution.
help farmers improve water quality an investment that will pay off several times over by protecting the environment and reducing treatment costs.
For example, we continued to recompense farmers prepared to switch from metaldehyde to less invasive alternatives for the control of slugs.
Once in the watercourse via field run off, metaldehyde is extremely expensive to remove and the scheme has again delivered excellent value while helping us achieve our catchment management target.
We improved biodiversity on 9.86 hectares of Sites of Special Retaining the Carbon Scientific Interest SSSIs during the year, and have a target of TrustStandard improving 75 hectares of SSSIs by 2020.... and ensuring long term supply We were proud to once again be reaccredited with the Carbon Trust Standard during the year.
This achievement verifies that As the financial year closed, we published our draft Water we have sound carbon management processes in place and are Resources Management Plans WRMP.
Our long term reducing absolute carbon emissions year-on-year.
In fact, weve view on supply availability, the WRMP articulates the need to reduced our GHG emissions by 17% since 2014. make significant investments in water supply and demand management schemes, particularly in light of the Governments requirements for the industry to reduce levels of water abstraction.
For example, Severn Trent Water has targeted a 15% reduction in leakage over the next five years, and we plan to increase the use of water meters, in addition to stepping up our home water efficiency checks.
We carried out 15,367 checks during the year helping customers save money and protect future supplies by using water more efficiently.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Strategic report Managing our critical resources and relationships continued Cleaning our rivers Under the EU Water Framework Directive WFD, were charged with achieving good status for all watercourses.
We continued to support the aims of the WFD during 2017 18 and again made significant progress towards achieving our ambitious target of improving the health of 1,800 km of river by 2020.
We completed 10 WFD sewage treatment projects during the year which improved almost 120 km of river an increase of around 650% over the previous year and were now approximately 15% of the way to reaching our objective.
River health is assessed by the Environment Agency and measured against a set of criteria including oxygen levels and the presence of fish and invertebrates.
Using technology to Managing our environmental impact During 2017 18, we outperformed our internal sewer flooding preventpollution regulatory target by 31% and our external target by 49% and these have been key factors that should help us regain a 4 Combined sewer overflows CSOs are susceptible to rating from the Environment Agency.
pollution if they block or stop working properly.
So over the last year weve invested in monitors at over 70% of our We also achieved all of our regulatory targets relating to CSOs.
Were also installing over 1,000 monitors in manholes pollution incidents, reducing serious category 1 and 2 pollutions wheretheres a high risk of internal flooding or pollution.
to two events during 2017 18, down from seven in the prior year.
We failed to reach our water ODI carbon emissions target for 2017 18, primarily due to greater energy consumption as we need to meet increases in demand for water production.
Efficiency measures now in place are expected to drive the required reduction in the coming 12 months.
Meanwhile, we continue to increase the amount of renewable energy we generate.
During the year, we produced the equivalent of 38% of Severn Trent Water Limiteds energy needs and are on track to increase this to 50% by 2020.
40% of employees volunteer toclear 50 km of rivers Our volunteering scheme continues to go from strength to strength.
During the year, over 40% of our people worked with partners such as local Wildlife Trusts to help clean up the environment alongside 40 km of rivers in England and afurther 10 km in Wales.
46 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our physical assets Ensuring a resilient and wellmaintained network Our physical assets include over 49,000 km of water mains,... and reduce interruptions and leakage 27 dams, 139 water treatment works and a vast range of While our capital programme is delivering rewards in many equipment, sites, offices and other structures across an areas of the business, we recognise that our customers estate that covers more than 53,000 acres.
While a significant experienced too many supply interruptions during the year.
number of these assets are over 100 years old and of historic Some of these caused major hardships, notably at Tewkesbury importance, many are among the most technologically in December 2017, when we took too long to locate, isolate and advanced examples of their type in the water industry not rectify a burst main, and in March 2018 when the countrywide only in the UK but worldwide.
freeze and subsequent thaw contributed to some customers Were committed to ensuring that our assets are in optimum being left without water or with only intermittent water supplies condition at all times, able to deliver the high quality services that for extended periods of time.
At dams and reservoirs, for example, Were working hard to improve our performance, including we carry out regular checks to identify any remedial actions that investing in robot leakage detector technology which we need to be undertaken and every year, the Board receives a full believe would have been invaluable at bursts such as the one report on the condition of each dam and reservoir in our portfolio.
Security is an increasingly important issue for all key UK The time we take to respond when customers tell us about a infrastructure.
Mindful of our role and responsibilities, we leak is another area where we need to improve.
However, this cooperate closely with the Government on potential terrorist is not as clear cut as it appears.
Our performance commitment targets and provide physical security at all major sites.
At the target is to respond within 24 hours, but, this may not be the most same time, our cyber security team constantly monitors our IT operationally effective way to provide a good service to customers assets, identifying and addressing any vulnerabilities in order or manage our network efficiently.
Were currently evaluating toprotect our data and that of our customers.
our response capabilities in order to assure ourselves and our customers that our current approach is appropriate.
Improving our portfolio to improve efficiency...
Since privatisation, the water industry has invested some 130 billion in assets to improve services for customers, with our own capital programme involving an investment of around 3 billion over the five years to March 2020.
The major projects currently underway include the 300 million Birmingham Resilience Project the largest ongoing capital project in the industry and a 60 million scheme to improve sewers and water mains at Newark in Nottinghamshire.
We also have a continuous investment programme to improve the effectiveness of our sewage treatment works, including a 12.5 million project to remove phosphorus.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Strategic report Managing our critical resources and relationships continued Our people Creating a place where people enjoy coming towork where theyre safe, well rewarded andtreated with respect The Group employs around 6,000 people at locations primarily Pay and career paths across the East and West Midlands as well as in North and We aim to provide people with careers, not just jobs.
We know that were only as good as our people.
are relatively high for our Midlands heartlands, and we work So we strive to create a workplace thats welcoming, safe hard to make sure that our people can see how and where they and well-rewarded and where theyre treated with respect.
can progress up through our organisation regardless of their This years employee survey showed a six percentage points starting point.
increase in engagement, clearly demonstrating that were on Attracting high quality people is a challenge for all employers, the right path to making the Group an awesome place to work.
so were pleased to see the high numbers of graduates that Health, safety and wellbeing apply to Severn Trent.
Our apprentice programme expanded yet again during the year and for the first time included a Masters The health and safety of our people is a core aspect of how we level option.
work, and we ensure that theyre provided with the training and resources to follow our safety rules.
Our Lost Time Injury Over the next 12 months were going to respond to issues raised LTI frequency rate for the year was 0.17 per 100,000 hours in the employee survey, including greater clarification on pay worked, a significant decrease of 23% over the previous year.
rates and extra focus on how we explain career opportunities.
Our rigorous approach to safety has led to this improvement Diversity and inclusion over the last three years, from 0.21 in 2015.
However, theres no room for complacency and well continue to promote safe Were already a diverse, inclusive business but we know working practices through initiatives including training and thereare opportunities to do even more to reflect the regular communications.
We also made good progress in ensuring our peoples wellbeing The year saw a 13% increase in the numbers of Black, during the year.
We continued our mental health programme and Asian and Minority Ethnic BAME employees on our now have over 400 trained mental health first aiders across the graduate programmes, and weve introduced new ways Group.
This is part of our drive to promote greater awareness of of working designed to drive a further increase in future some of the more challenging issues that people can face in their years.
These include removing barriers to entry such as the everyday lives for the year ahead were continuing to focus on requirement to have a degree for some of our programmes and the menopause and cancer.
improving the way we target recruitment activities at schools.
Gender diversity is another area where were performing well.
Our mean gender pay gap for the year was 2.4% and were committed to reducing it still further.
Our executive team has particularly high female representation, which is why we were placed second among FTSE 100 companies by the 2017 HamptonAlexander Review.
Signing up to help those Raising awareness withaterminal illness ofmentalhealth We were proud to sign up to the TUCs Dying to Work Since 2015, 19% of our employees have taken part charter during the year, which aims to protect employees in mental health awareness training.
Were going to with a terminal illness.
We believe that nobody should continue to focus on this issue during the year ahead have to worry about keeping their job if they have a while also expanding our efforts to embrace terminal diagnosis.
other aspects of wellbeing such as physical health, nutrition, exercise and sleep.
48 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our suppliers andpartners Building strong relationships that provide mutual benefit We rely on a pool of suppliers that use their expertise and resources to maintain and improve our infrastructure.
Through the One Supply Chain programme, we agree long term contracts that give suppliers greater certainty of workflow and revenue, while the benefit to Severn Trent lies in the opportunity to negotiate more competitive prices.
The long term nature of the contracts also enables both parties to build stronger relationships, work more closely together and explore more efficient ways of working.
In addition to achieving operational excellence and meeting our efficiency targets, our contracts also stipulate that suppliers must adhere to our own high safety standards and sign up to our policy on bribery and corruption and our sustainable supply chain charter.
We ensure compliance with these requirements through a comprehensive audit during the tendering process, and through regular communications and meetings.
For example, a number of our suppliers have signed up to corporate responsibility targets agreed with us, and we Inspecting the condition of our waste water assets review progress against these monthly.
Through our supplier atPackington treatment works.
events, we have set out our plans and expectations, and have invited delegates to contribute their own ideas on how we could work better together.
We also took the opportunity to underline the role that safety and ethics play in creating enduring supplier relationships.
Partnering with others Suppliers signed up Were keen to work with partner organisations from both inside Suppliers paid on time and outside our industry, combining their specialist knowledge tosustainable supply with our own in order to address some of the challenges and chain charter 96% opportunities we face.
2017: 97% For example, during the year we extended our drive to 211 support vulnerable customers and have now formed deeper Introduced in May 2017 relationships with bodies including MIND, Samaritans, Citizens Advice, local food banks, the NHS and other utility firms.
By sharing our knowledge, we aim to build a holistic view of people who are potentially vulnerable and to put measures in place to help them at an earlier stage.
Weve continued to collaborate with our peers in the industry.
We engaged with Thames Water to evaluate a project to build a super interconnector that would enable water trading, and with the Social Market Foundation to publish a report into the possible financial implications of renationalisation.
In partnership with Thames Water and United Utilities, we also published our joint ideas on how the creation of a systems operator could support greater efficiency.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Strategic report Managing our critical resources and relationships continued Our customers Regulators Working with the authorities andcommunities to shape our industry Improving the customer experience Were responsible for meeting the needs of 4.3 million We maintain positive and constructive relationships household and business customers, across an area stretching with Ofwat and other regulatory bodies.
Complying with from the Bristol Channel to the Humber, and from North and their requirements at all times isnt just the right thing mid-Wales to the East Midlands.
We provide these customers to do its essential to our licence to operate and our with around 1.6 billion litres of high quality drinking water ability to meet our commitments to our customers and every day and treat around 2.77 billion litres of waste water, other stakeholders.
which we clean and return to the system.
We engage with regulators on a regular basis in order to Everything we do is to the benefit of our customers and their share our knowledge and promote developments which communities and during the year we carried out our most could lead to improved services for customers across extensive research project ever, to make sure that were the industry.
addressing the issues that matter most to them.
Making a difference Communication is the key to managing expectations, and we work hard to keep customers and communities informed and to minimise disruption when we carry out planned work on our network.
Through our education programme, we help people save water and prevent blockages in our sewers and drains, supporting the long term integrity of the network and protecting water supplies for future generations.
The scale of our operations and the nature of our assets means we have a great opportunity to be a positive influence on the environment in local communities.
Were continuing to implement initiatives and working with local businesses, including farmers to improve important habitats such as rivers, for the ultimate enjoyment of all.
Our 17 visitor sites host a total of 4 million visits a year, and provide access to water for a range of leisure facilities, as well as customer education facilities.
Many of our people continued to play their part in the lives of their local communities during 2017 18.
In fact more of our people than ever before took the chance to join in some form of volunteering Our 17 visitor sites host a total of 4 million visits a year, and provide or fundraising activity.
access to water for a range of leisure facilities, as well as customer education facilities.
Customers who rate Customers wehelp ourservice value for eachyear through money in an independent socialtariffs and quarterly survey assistance schemes 59% 51,716 2017: 58% 2017: 50,903 50 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
