Governance Executive Committee Leadership & Effectiveness 1.
Sarah Bentley BSc Hons, Management Science Appointed: Chief Executive on 11 April 2014 withComputing 46 Please see full biography on page 68 Appointed: Chief Customer Officer in December 2014 Member of the Executive Committee 2.
James Bowling BA Hons Econ, ACA 49 Career and responsibilities: Responsible for Customer Retail and Network operations, Group Technology Appointed: Chief Financial Officer on 1 April 2015 and Transformation.
She previously worked for Accenture as Managing Please see full biography on page 68 Director of their 3 billion global digital business focused on digital marketing, mobility and analytics for customers, employees and the enterprise.
Dr. Tony Ballance BSc Hons, MA Econ, PhD 53 Accenture, Sarah was CEO of Datapoint, an Alchemy backed company Appointed: Director, Strategy and Regulation on 25 July 2005 delivering CRM services, and Senior Vice President of eLoyalty, a global CRM and marketing consultancy.
She was SVP of the European Business, led the Member of the Executive and Disclosure Committee sales and operations activity in North America and ran eLoyalty Ventures Career and responsibilities: L. L. C. working in Silicon Valley, Austin and New York.
Tonys extensive experience in utility policy, regulation and stakeholder engagement leaves him ideally placed to lead the Companys strategic, Other roles: regulatory and external affairs work.
Prior to joining Severn Trent, he held Twizzletwig Limited Director and Secretary the posts of Chief Economist for Ofwat, Director of London Economics and Director of Stone and Webster Consultants.
Martin Kane BSc, CEng, CEnv, MICE, MIWEM, Other roles: FIW 65 Senior Independent Director of the National Forest Company Appointed: Martin joined Severn Trent Water in 1975 and was appointed Member of Water UK Council Chief Engineer in July 2014 Chairman of the Corporate Advisory Panel of the Regulatory Member of the Executive Committee Policy Institute Career and responsibilities: He has held various senior roles giving him an extensive and unique understanding of the design, construction and operation of water and waste water treatment plants, water distribution networks and sewerage systems.
Martin was Director of Customer Relations, Severn Trent Plc, from May 2006 until January 2012, and Chief Executive Officer of Severn Trent Services until July 2014.
Other roles: Member of the Boards of Utilities and Service Industries Training Limited Trustee of International Society for Trenchless Technology Chairman, Panton McLeod Ltd Chairman of the Coventry and Warwickshire Growth Hub 70 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information 5.
Neil Morrison Bsc Hons, Chartered FCIPD 44 Appointed: Group General Counsel and Company Secretary in June 2011 Appointed: Director of Human Resources in August 2017 Member of the Executive and Disclosure Committee Member of the Executive Committee Career and responsibilities: Career and responsibilities: Bronagh is a solicitor and was previously Group Company Secretary and Neil joined Severn Trent in August 2017 as a Director of Human Resources.
General Counsel and HR Director at Mitchells & Butlers, where she worked Neil started a career in HR management in 1996 and for the subsequent for 15 years.
Prior to that, she was a Senior Associate at Allen & Overy.
She is a 12 years he worked in a variety of HR roles within FTSE 100 companies, member of the GC100 Group and an Independent Non-Executive Director and including Rentokil Initial and GUS which latterly became Home Retail Chairman of the HR and Remuneration Committee of British Canoeing.
Before joining Severn Trent, Neil worked at Penguin Random House taking responsibility for strategic people issues across their publishing and distribution offices in the UK, APAC, India and South Africa.
Helen Miles CIMA 47 main leads in helping to steer and finalise the global merger between Random Appointed: Group Commercial Director in November 2014 House and Penguin.
Neil also sits on the board of the Chartered Institute of Member of the Executive Committee Personnel and Development CIPD.
Career and responsibilities: Helen joined Severn Trent in November 2014 as the Chief Commercial 10.
Dr. James Jesic BEng Hons, PhD, MIChemE, Officer and brings with her a breadth of commercial experience having CEng 39 worked within regulated businesses and sectors across Telecoms, Leisure and Banking.
As a member of the UK Board, Helen was instrumental in Appointed: Managing Director of Production on 1 December 2017 delivering HomeServes future growth strategy and ensuring a sustainable, Member of the Executive Committee customer-focused business.
As an experienced finance professional, Helen Career and responsibilities: was previously Chief Financial Officer for Openreach, part of BT Group plc, James is a chartered chemical engineer who joined Severn Trent on its and has extensive experience of delivering major business transformation graduate programme in 2003 and was appointed as Managing Director of across the Group.
Prior to BT Group, Helen worked in a variety of sectors Production in 2017.
During his time with the business, James has had full and organisations such as Bass Taverns, Barclays Bank, Compass Group accountability for the management of the operational multi-billion pound and HSBC.
asset base, being responsible for producing and supplying drinking water and collecting and treating waste water for millions of customers across the Midlands.
As part of that role, he has delivered industry-leading customer 8.
Andy Smith BTech Hons 57 service performance, as well as driving sector-leading environmental results.
Appointed: Managing Director, Business Services in 2014 He has a PhD in Chemical Engineering from the University of Birmingham and Member of the Executive Committee has attended Harvard Business School.
Career and responsibilities: Andy was appointed to the role of MD, Business Services on its creation in 2014 having previously been responsible for the drinking water business within Executives serving for part of the year Severn Trent Water.
Andy brings to the role a broad range of executive and operational expertise gained from diverse sectors.
Currently, Andy is also a Non-Executive Director of Diploma plc.
He has worked in the UK and overseas Evelyn Dickey BSc Hons 55 with global businesses such as BP, Mars and Pepsi in both engineering, HR Director of Human Resources and operational management roles.
Previously, he has served as a member Evelyn stepped down from the Executive Committee on 31 August 2017 after ofthe Board at Severn Trent Plc and at Boots Group plc.
Emma FitzGerald MA, DPhil Oxon, MBA 51 See page 69 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71
