Governance Nominations Committee report Leadership & Effectiveness Introduction As Chairman of the Nominations Committee, I am pleased to introduce the report of the Nominations Committee which details the role of the Committee.
The pages that follow provide additional details on the role of the Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Throughout the year, increased focus continued to be given to the Groups succession and contingency planning and diversity needs.
Discussion centred on the importance of developing, and maintaining, a diverse range of perspectives, skills, experiences and expertise, essential to ensuring our longterm viability and commercial success.
More information on our diversity initiatives can be found in the Strategic report on page 40.
Other significant parts of the Committees work this year have A significant part of the been the evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Directors Committees work this year and developing our talent pipeline for Directors and high performing individuals below Board level with a focus on the has been in developing our need for diversity.
The Committee also considered and approved the appointment of three Independent NonExecutive Directors to talent pipeline with a focus the Board of Dee Valley Water Limited.
Andrew Duff Chairman of the Nominations Committee Andrew Duff Chairman of the Nominations Committee Nominations Committee responsibilities The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee include: reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience, availability and diversity of the Board: Attendance table reviewing the leadership needs of the Company, both Executive and NonExecutive, at regular intervals: Meetings Max Member of the Nominations Committee attended possible reviewing the adequacy of Board and Executive succession Andrew Duff Chairman 4 4 planning in the long and short term: i John Coghlan 3 4 ensuring an effectiveness review of the Board, its Committees Dominique Reiniche 4 4 and Directors are conducted annually: Kevin Beeston 4 4 recommending to the Board the appointment or reappointment Philip Remnant 4 4 by shareholders of Directors at the AGM, in accordance with the Code: and Dame Angela Strank 4 4 carrying out an annual review of the Company policy on Board i John Coghlan was unable to attend a Committee meeting due to a bereavement.
The members of the Committee in 2017 18 were the The Nominations Committee Terms of Reference, which were NonExecutive Directors of the Board.
Only members of the updated in May 2018, can be found at www.
com Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
Other individuals such as the Chief Executive, members of senior management, the Director of Human Resources and external advisers may be invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
80 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information up to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender and BAME Nominations Committee activities diversity and best practice.
Diversity was a key consideration Diversity and succession planning for the Committee when nominating candidates to the Board of As highlighted earlier in the report, the Board and Nominations Dee Valley Water Limited during the year.
Throughout the year, Committee continue to drive the agenda of diversity across the focus also continued to be given to succession and contingency Group and are proud of the progress made, especially in respect planning, including diversity needs.
Succession Planning is of female representation on the Board and Executive Committee reviewed annually by the Committee with discussion centred on now at 37.5% and 40% respectively.
A breakdown by gender the importance of developing and maintaining a diverse range of the number of persons who were Directors of the Company, of perspectives, skills, experiences and expertise, essential senior managers and other employees as at 31 March 2018 is set to ensuring our longterm viability and commercial success.
With great graduate and apprenticeships programmes, as well The Board also remains focused on promoting broader as external hires and internal promotions, we are keen to make diversity, and creating an inclusive culture in line with the further progress in identifying, developing and progressing top recommendations from the Parker and McGregorSmith talent through the organisation, ensuring succession remains in reviews.
A diverse organisation benefits from differences in line with the Groups strategic needs.
skills, regional and industry experience, background, race, Talent development gender, sexual orientation, religion, belief and age, as well as We continue to recognise the importance of developing our culture and personality.
The Board is committed to building people and as such talent management remains a key topic of on existing graduate, apprentice and leadership programmes discussion.
The Groups five year talent plan focuses on building to embed inclusivity in our succession planning and talent both technical and leadership capability, and creating talent development work to strengthen our talent pipeline, with pipelines for the future.
an enhanced focus on ensuring appropriate representation We currently have a total of 73 graduates in training from minority ethnic candidates, as well as other relevant 38places were offered in 2016 and 35 in 2017.
fourentry programmes for graduates Business Leadership, The Board Diversity Policy the Policy, which is approved Finance, IS and Engineering.
Our placements programme annually by the Board, was updated and approved by the Board for undergraduates offers a range of summer and 12 month in October 2017.
The objective of the Policy is to develop a placements across Engineering, Finance and the Visitor pipeline of diverse high calibre candidates for Board level roles.
Experience teams, with 21 opportunities filled in 2017.
The Nominations Committee reviews the Boards effectiveness We currently have 161 apprentices in training.
In 2017, we and composition each year and, in particular, considers the launched four new Apprenticeship programmes within Finance, balance of skills, experience and independence of the Board, Group Commercial, Project Management and Senior Network in accordance with the Policy.
It considers the benefits of all Technician populations.
This means we now have nine active aspects of diversity but without compromise as to the calibre Apprenticeship programmes, and we expect this to increase to of Directors, when identifying candidates for appointment.
12in 2018, which includes a degree level legal Apprenticeship and The selection of candidates to join the Board will continue to be a Higher Apprenticeship in HR.
made based on merit and the individuals ability to contribute to the effectiveness of the Board, which in turn will be dependent We have been a key partner in the development and on the pool of candidates available.
To support this, we continue implementation of the new water industry apprenticeships only to engage with executive search firms who have signed standards through the Governments Trailblazer initiative.
Gender diversity Severn Trent Board diversity figures Severn Trent Board diversity gures at 31 March 2018 Tenure Years Tenure years Strategic Leader Graduates Apprentices 8 and Director 7 15 6 24 28 5 41 46 4 152 3 2 Group 1 0 Male Male 1,946 Female Female 4,541 Emma FitzGerald stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2017.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 John Coghlan James Bowling Andrew Duff Olivia Gareld Dame Angela Strank Philip Remnant Kevin Beeston Dominique Reiniche Governance Nominations Committee report continued Leadership & Effectiveness As oneof the 13 firms making up the employer group we have itsconsideration of the reelection of Directors and it was also ensured that Severn Trent has been at the forefront of the the subject of a presentation to the Board.
development of this new avenue for apprenticeships.
There are As part of the evaluation, full consideration was given to now two Trailblazer programmes being successfully delivered the number of external positions held by the NonExecutive across the industry for Water Process Technicians WPT and Directors.
We reviewed Directors other appointments, including Utilities Engineering Technician UET and we currently offer the time commitment required for each, as part of the evaluation both of these Apprenticeship routes in partnership with our exercise.
The outcome of which is as follows: learning provider, the EEF Technology College.
Number of Listed Company Our innovative delivery model for Trailblazer has allowed us to Number of Listed Company Appointments Appointments as NonExecutive design a programme that ensures high quality apprenticeship as Chairman including Director including training delivered in just 24 months significantly faster than Director Severn Trent Plc Severn Trent Plc any previous schemes, as elsewhere in the industry this course Kevin Beeston 1 1 would take at least 36 48 months for apprentices to complete, James Bowling 0 0 and we are proud to have had the first four water industry John Coghlan 0 1 Trailblazer apprentices in the UK to complete the new standard and qualify through the new assessment model.
Andrew Duff 2 0 Emma FitzGerald Evaluation of the Board Stepped Down The effectiveness of the Board is reviewed annually and an 31 December 2017 independent externally facilitated review of the effectiveness Liv Garfield 0 0 of the Board is conducted every three years and conducted Dominique Reiniche 0 2 according to the guidance set out in the Code.
The Board therefore conducted an externally facilitated board effectiveness Philip Remnant 1 2 evaluation this year, the last having taken place in 2015.
Dame Angela Strank 0 1 This year, the Board evaluation was externally facilitated by As a result of this review, the Committee did not identify any Manchester Square Partners with support from the Chairman instances of overboarding and confirms that all individual and Company Secretary.
The next externally facilitated review is Directors have sufficient time to commit to their appointment scheduled for 2021.
More information on the Board evaluation as a Director of Severn Trent Plc.
can be found on page 79 of the Governance report.
The full list of external appointments held by our NonExecutive The subsequent report prepared by Manchester Square Directors can be found on pages 68 and 69.
Partners was discussed by the Nominations Committee in Progress against 2016 17 Action Plan The areas identified for further focus and attention in the April 2017 Board Effectiveness Report to the Board were: Area for further focus identified in2016 17 internal review Progress against areas for further focus identified in 2017 18 internal review Seeking opportunities to improve Whilst there are currently no vacancies on the ST Plc and STW Boards, the recruitment the ethnic diversity of the Board ofDee Valley NEDs gave an opportunity to seek to improve the diversity of the Groups NEDpopulation.
Succession planning for the Neil Morrison has only recently taken up the role of HR Director but talent development Executive team and succession planning will be an area of focus for him going forward.
The new role of Production Manager on STEC also creates less of a big step up in terms of senior operational succession.
Additional more depth of content The regulatory section of the induction material and the induction programme will have on regulatory topics in director additional face to face meetings with the regulatory team, 3 and 6 months in, following induction material appointment.
John Coghlan has also kindly agreed to help provide support to any new Director in this regard.
Improved communication of Committee meeting reports now take place at the beginning of every Board meeting giving Committee proceedings to agreater opportunity for nonmembers to ask questions or seek clarification.
theBoard A distinct separation of strategy The recent strategy day was entirely different in format, offsite and with external speakers, days from Board meeting as and received very positive feedback from NEDs.
an opportunity to step back and discuss, debate and interrogate Further information is available within the Board Evaluation section on page 79.
82 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
