Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Audit Committee report Accountability Introduction As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce the report of our role and the work we have undertaken during the year.
The pages that follow provide additional detail on the activities and discussions of the Committee and provides an overview of the significant issues the Committee assessed and steps taken to address any issues identified.
The Committee has continued to play a key role in supporting the Board in discharging its oversight responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys financial statements and matters relating to the Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
As such, there is a continued focus on ensuring the adequate mitigation of risks faced by the Group.
This report provides additional detail of how we carried out our risk assessment The Committee continues activities and you can read more about how we identify and manage risks on pages 57 and 58 of our Strategic report.
to focus on ensuring the Other significant parts of the Committees work this year adequate mitigation of risks have included: oversight of the relationship with our External Auditor: including the assessment of its ongoing objectivity faced by the Group.
and independence: overseeing the assurance of regulatory John Coghlan returns made by Severn Trent Water Limited and Dee Valley Chairman of the Audit Committee Water Limited to Ofwat: oversight of the wholesale charges: new connections charging: PR19 assurance framework: customer ODI forecast: company monitoring framework and Water Resource Management Plan for both Severn Trent Water Limitedand Dee Valley Water Limited.
John Coghlan Chairman of the Audit Committee Attendance table Member of the Meetings Max Audit Committee attended possible Audit Committee responsibilities John Coghlan Chairman 4 4 The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: Philip Remnant 3 4 oversight of financial statements and accounting policies: Kevin Beeston 4 4 review of risk management and internal controls: In addition to the attendance set out above, Andrew Duff, the oversight of Internal and External Audit: CEO, the CFO, the Head of Internal Audit, the Group Financial review of the adequacy of the Groups procedures for Controller and the External Auditor normally attend, by invitation, whistleblowing, reporting fraud and other inappropriate all meetings of the Committee.
Other members of senior behaviour, including reviewing reports of all allegations management are also invited to attend as appropriate.
attheir meetings: The Committee regularly holds private discussions with the Head review of the Financial Reporting Council FRC reporting of Internal Audit and the External Auditor separately, without requirements on Going Concern and LongTerm Viability Executive management present.
The Chairman regularly holds Statements: and separate onetoone meetings with the CFO, the Head of Internal Audit and the External Auditor to better understand any issues or regulatory reporting obligations of our subsidiaries Severn areas for concern.
Trent Water Limited and Dee Valley Water Limited.
The Audit Committee Terms of Reference, which were updated During 2017 18, the Committee held five additional quorate inMarch 2018, can be found at www.
com meetings convened at short notice.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Governance Audit Committee report continued Accountability Audit Committee activities A summary of the matters considered at each meeting is set out below: Meeting Matters considered May 2017 Financial results 2016 17 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17, including fair, balanced and understandable review Severn Trent Water Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Regulatory: Annual Performance Report and Annual Regulatory Compliance Statement for Severn Trent Water Limited andDeeValley Water Limited Regulatory: Annual Performance Report assurance, including ODIs for Severn Trent Water Limited Internal control and risk management effectiveness External Audit: Deloitte year end final report Whistleblowing update September 2017 Internal Audit: halfyear report Gifts and Hospitality Update External Audit: 2017 18 plan and terms of engagement External Audit: Review of nonaudit fees Draft Wholesale charges Enterprise Risk Management update Water Resource Management Plan for Severn Trent Water Limited and Dee Valley Water Limited Assurance Map redesign Whistleblowing update PR19 Assurance Framework November 2017 Interim results External Audit: Deloitte halfyear report Management Representation letters Regulatory: Company Monitoring Framework Report from the Disclosure Committee Severn Trent Water Limited Customer ODI Forecast Water Resource Management Plan Material litigation and compliance update Whistleblowing update December 2017 Dee Valley Water Limited Water Resources Management Plan Water Resources RCV Allocation for PR19 New Connections Charging January 2018 New Connections Charging March 2018 Finance: Year end considerations and LongTerm Viability Statement update Regulatory: Year end considerations, Annual Performance Report and Annual Compliance Statement Regulatory: WICS Compliance Statement External Audit: Effectiveness review External Audit: Nonaudit fees policy and review of nonaudit fees Committee Terms of Reference Internal Audit Q4 Update Internal Audit Plan 2018 19 Enterprise Risk Management update Draft Principal Risks 2018 for the Annual Report Report from the Disclosure Committee Material litigation and legal compliance update Whistleblowing update Bribery and fraud prevention and detection Assurance Map update Accounting policies update Subsidiary Audit Exemptions In addition to the matters considered above, the Committee reviewed the proposed presentations to analysts in conjunction with the draft results announcements for both the interim and full year results, applying particular attention to the tone of the announcements and presentations to maintain consistency with the financial statements.
In reviewing the financial statements, the Committee receives input from the Disclosure Committee, a subcommittee of the Executive Committee which is chaired by the CFO.
In May 2018, the Audit Committee also reviewed the outcome of the process to confirm that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Disclosure Committee undertook a detailed review of the Annual Report and Accounts prior to making a recommendation to the Board that it could make the fair, balanced and understandable statements contained in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 135.
84 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Significant financial statement reporting issues The Committee looked carefully at those aspects of the financial statements which required significant accounting judgements or where there was estimation uncertainty.
These areas are explained in note 4 of the financial statements on page 152.
The Committee receives detailed reports from both the CFO and the External Auditor on these areas and on any other matters which they believe should be drawn to the attention of the Committee.
The Committee also reviews the draft of the External Auditors report on the financial statements, with particular reference to those matters reported as carrying risks of material misstatement.
The Committee discusses the range of possible treatments both with management and with the External Auditor and satisfies itself that the judgements made by management are robust and should be supported.
The significant issues that the Committee considered in 2017 18 were: Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern basis for the financial statements and longterm The Committee reviewed and challenged the evidence and assumptions underpinning viability statement.
the use of the going concern assumption in preparing the accounts and in making the statements in the Strategic report on going concern and longterm viability.
Determination of the provision for impairment of trade receivables The Committee challenged the changes made to the methodology for calculating the provision during the year and critically appraised managements explanations for in Severn Trent Water Limited.
At 31 March 2018, the provision in Severn Trent Water Limiteds The Committee considered the work performed by the Auditor and the conclusions financial statements was 124.5 million and the charge for the yearwas 25.0million.
they reached regarding the adequacy of the provision.
The Committee determined that no adjustment to the amounts recorded was Severn Trent Water Limited has a statutory obligation to continue to supply water and waste water services to customers even required.
when their bills are unpaid.
This increases the risk of bad debts.
Inaddition it has a large and diverse customer base which requires impairments against trade receivables to be assessed onasystematic basis.
Revenue recognition in relation to the estimation of metered The Committee does not consider that there is a significant risk of a material revenue from the new nonhousehold retail market in Severn adjustment in respect of this estimate in the next financial year because the TrentWater Limited.
estimated amount is not material.
Nevertheless, the Committee considered this to be a significant issue because the systems and processes are new and the amounts In the year ended 31 March 2018, Severn Trent Water Limited recognised are subject to management judgement.
recognised 371.4million in revenue from sales to retailers inthenew nonhousehold retail market.
The Committee reviewed the process for calculating the metered revenue estimate from nonhousehold retailers and considered the reasonableness of the estimates On 1 April 2017, the nonhousehold retail market in England opened in the light of emerging trends and the experience of other market participants.
This enabled all nonhousehold customers to TheCommittee scrutinised managements evidence supporting its judgements choose their water and waste water supplier although wholesale and examined the data from the underlying evidence.
The Committee discussed services remained with the incumbent companies.
Market Operator theAuditors work and their conclusions.
Services Limited MOSL was established to operate the market and to provide data to wholesalers and retailers to allow settlement The Committee determined that the approach taken by management was between market participants to take place.
MOSL provides data for reasonableand that no adjustment was required to the amounts recognised monthly settlement periods based on actual meter readings and in the financial statements.
estimations extrapolated from the last known meter read.
This is an iterative process with subsequent settlement runs including more actual readings for the same period.
Empirical observations have shown that metered consumption is consistently higher than the previous estimates.
The proposed classification of costs between operating expenditure The Committee considered the application of the Groups accounting policies in and capital expenditure in Severn Trent Water Limited.
relation to capital expenditure during the year.
Severn Trent Water Limited has a significant capital programme The Committee enquired of management whether the policies had been applied that includes projects made up of a combination of expenditure consistently from year to year and sought explanation for the increase in amounts and activities, some of which are recognised as property, plant and capitalised.
The Committee considered the results of the Auditors work and equipment and some of which are recognised as operating costs.
discussed the conclusions with the Auditor.
For most of the expenditure this distinction is clear but there is an The Committee determined that no adjustment to the amounts recorded element where subjective judgements are required to determine wasrequired.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Governance Audit Committee report continued Accountability Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Determination of the amount of the Groups retirement benefit The Committee scrutinised the assumptions underlying the valuation of the obligations.
obligations, noting and probing assumptions that were not in line with their expectations.
The Committee considered whether the assumptions taken At 31 March 2018, net retirement benefit obligations amounting to as a whole were appropriate, taking account the work of the Auditor and the 519.8 million were recognised.
benchmark information provided by them.
The net obligation recognised on the balance sheet is the difference The Committee considered that the assumptions were reasonable and that between the fair value of the schemes assets at the balance sheet noadjustment was required to the draft financial statements.
date and the present value of the benefits expected to be paid to members of the schemes.
This requires assumptions to be made regarding expected age of retirement and longevity of members, future inflation rates and increases to benefits.
It is also necessary to determine an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of the estimated gross obligations.
Management takes advice from external qualified actuaries who perform the calculation ofthe present value of the benefits based on the assumptions set by management.
For all of the matters described above the Committee concluded that the treatment adopted in the Group financial statements was appropriate.
Internal control over financial reporting The Group has established procedures for exercising control and managing risk in relation to financial reporting and preparation ofconsolidated financial statements including: the formulation and communication of Group accounting policies which are regularly updated for developments in IFRS and other reporting requirements: specification of a set of financial controls that all of the Groups operating businesses are required to implement as a minimum: a range of system, transactional and management oversight controls embedded into our financial processes: deployment of a groupwide consolidation system with controls to restrict access and maintain integrity of data: recruitment training and development of appropriately qualified and experienced financial reporting personnel: oversight by the Disclosure Committee of the Groups compliance with its disclosure obligations: and monthly reviews by the Board of financial reports from the Groups operating businesses.
Effectiveness of the Audit Committee The Committees performance was considered and reviewed as part of the annual review of the Board and its Committees, details of which can be found on page 79.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee members bring a wide range and depth of financial and commercial experience across various industries and that all members have competence relevant to regulated and or utilities businesses as well as significant recent and relevant financial experience.
Internal and External Audit Internal Audit and internal controls Internal Audit is an independent assurance function available to the Board, Audit Committee and all levels of management.
The Internal Audit function is supported by a cosourcing partner, .
The arrangement is reviewed annually and the Committee believes this structure adds value, through greater access to specific areas of expertise, increased ability to scale up operations, and the ability to challenge management independently.
Cosource specialists will continue to bring expertise to support the team and delivery of the audit plan where relevant.
During the year, and following a meeting with the Chairman of the Audit Committee, a new Head of Internal Audit was appointed.
This appointment complemented planned changes to the Internal Audit team to help deliver third line assurance for PR19 and other regulatory activities, without compromising the delivery of the 2018 19 audit plan.
86 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information The role of Internal Audit is to provide assurance that the Groups The Committee considers the effectiveness of the External risk management and internal control systems are well designed Auditor every year and, further to Deloittes reappointment, and operate effectively and that any corrective action is taken in a full effectiveness review was conducted during this year.
Each year, Internal Audit develops an annual The review involved assessment of the Auditor by the Committee riskbased audit plan for approval by the Audit Committee and and key Executives and evaluation of whether the Auditor meets Performance Dashboards to enable onward monitoring of the minimum standards of qualification, independence, expertise, plans execution.
The Audit Committee challenges the Audit effectiveness and communication.
plan, specifically whether the key risk areas identified as part Based on our consideration of the responses to the effectiveness of the Enterprise Risk Management process are being audited review the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and with appropriate frequency and depth, and also by bringing effectiveness of the audit.
an external view of risks the Company may be exposed to.
Non-audit fees The Performance Dashboards summarise the performance of The Company has approved a formal policy on the provision of the Internal Audit function over the year against key measures nonaudit services aimed at safeguarding and supporting the and are reviewed by the Committee twice a year.
Following the independence and objectivity of the External Auditor.
The policy completion of each planned audit, the Internal Audit function sets out the approach to be taken by the Group when using the seeks feedback from management which is reported through services of the External Auditor, including requiring that certain the Performance Dashboards and assessed in turn by the Audit services provided by the External Auditor are preapproved by Committee twice a year.
The effectiveness of the controls over the Committee or its Chairman and separately sets out those financial reporting is also monitored by the Audit Committee, nonaudit services which are prohibited, since the independence which receives regular reports of the testing conducted by the of the External Auditor could be threatened.
The process for approving all nonaudit work provided by our The Audit Committee is confident that, where any failings or Auditor is overseen by the Committee in order to safeguard the weaknesses are identified in the course of its review of internal objectivity and independence of the Auditor.
Prior to approval, control systems, management puts in place robust actions to consideration is given to whether it is in the interests of the address these on a timely basis.
An internal control system can Company that the services are purchased from Deloitte rather provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against than another supplier.
Where Deloitte have been chosen, this material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage is as a result of their detailed knowledge of our business and rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business understanding of our industry as well as demonstrating that objectives.
To ensure continued efficiency, an external review of theyhave the necessary expertise and capability to undertake the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function will be carried out thework costeffectively.
The policy was revised in early 2016, ahead of new EU regulations External Auditor coming into force in June 2016, to provide that nonaudit fees Annually, the Committee reviews the External Auditors audit and independence of our Auditor would continue to be subject to plan and reviews and assesses information provided by them ongoing review in light of those rules.
The current policy, which confirming their independence and objectivity within the was reviewed by the Committee during the year, continues to context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional comply with the EU regulations and requires approval by the standards.
Deloitte contributes a further independent perspective Committee or its Chairman if a nonaudit service provided by the on certain aspects of the Companys financial control systems Auditor is expected to cost more than 100,000.
The policy also arising from its work, and reports both to the Board and the prohibits aggregate fees from nonaudit services in excess of Audit Committee.
70% of the audit fee for the year.
Following a formal tender process in 2015 16, Deloitte LLP were Nonaudit services where the External Auditor may be used reappointed as Auditor at the 2016 AGM.
The senior statutory include: auditrelated services required by statute or regulation, Auditor, Kari Hale, has overseen the audit of the Severn Trent services related to fraud, Corporate Responsibility report reviews Group since 2015 16.
The Company intends to put the External and regulatory support.
Audit out to tender at least as often as is required by applicable law, rules, regulations and best practice in line with the Competition and Markets Authority and EU requirements for mandatory tendering and rotation of the audit firm.
Under current regulations the External Audit must be put out to tender by 2025 and Deloitte will not be able to participate.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the CMA Audit Order during the financial year.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Governance Audit Committee report continued Accountability During the year, Deloitte received 558,000 in fees for work relating to the audit services they provide to the Group.
Nonaudit related work undertaken by Deloitte amounted to fees of 201,000 this year, which amounts to 36% of the total audit fees paid to them.
Fees paid to Deloitte are set out in note 7 of the financial statements on page 157, but details ofsignificant nonaudit work undertaken are set out below: Nature of service Reason for Deloittes appointment Fees 000 Audit related assurance services Interim review This work is akin to an audit and is expected to be performed by the 54 External Auditor.
The same safeguards that apply to the External Audit alsoapply to this work.
Assurance of regulatory returns Audit of sections 1 and 2 of Dee Valley Water Limiteds and Severn Trent 65 Water Limiteds Annual Performance Reports is closely related to the External Auditors statutory audit work and the two assignments are performed in parallel.
Reporting under Group financing documents These documents require reports from the Auditor.
49 Subtotal 168 Other assurance services Assurance in connection with regulatory Agreedupon procedures relating to section 4 of Dee Valley Water Limiteds 15 reports to Ofwat and Severn Trent Water Limiteds Annual Performance Reports and Severn Trent Water Limiteds wholesale scheme of charges.
Other assurance 18 Subtotal 33 Total 2017 18 non-audit fees 201 In approving these nonaudit fees, the Committee considered the Risk management overall ratio of nonaudit fees to audit fees and, given the scope The Audit Committee reviews the processes for, and outputs of work, considered that Deloitte was best placed to perform from, the Groups Enterprise Risk Management ERM process, these services.
through which our principal risks and related controls are identified.
The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Regulated subsidiaries risk management system on behalf of the Board and keeps under The regulated activities carried out by Severn Trent Water Limited review ways in which to enhance the control and assurance and Dee Valley Water Limited also require annual reporting arrangements.
The Committee receives halfyearly reports from submissions to Ofwat which are reviewed by the Committee.
the Head of Risk detailing the significant risks and uncertainties They include an annual submission on their regulatory faced by the Group, an assessment of the effectiveness of performance and obligations known as the Annual Performance controls over each of those risks and an action plan to improve Report, together with a Compliance Statement and a statement controls where this has been assessed as necessary.
to underpin the customer charges made by each subsidiary.
To further enhance the clarity of reporting and insight that can In November 2017, the Committee reviewed the statement of be gained from this ERM information risk flightpaths are now risks, strengths and weaknesses and draft assurance plans for reported to the Audit Committee.
The flightpaths graphically Severn Trent Water Limited and Dee Valley Water Limited, which demonstrate the level of risk the Group faces and the timeline is a requirement of Ofwats Company Monitoring Framework.
for the key risk mitigation steps to manage the risk to the target These documents set out the process, timeline and assurance position.
This builds upon the established reporting dashboard framework in place for information published for customers and for the Groups significant risks.
The flightpaths and the reporting other stakeholders, including the Annual Performance Report.
dashboard help to facilitate a more thorough review of the For each of Severn Trent Water Limited and Dee Valley Water target risk positions considering risk appetite and whether Limited, Deloitte provides an audit opinion on the regulatory improvement actions to achieve these are on target with the financial reporting and price control segmentation sections of correct prioritisation in place.
the respective Annual Performance Reports, and assurance The Board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing of certain aspects of additional regulatory information that is process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal included.
The respective Annual Performance Reports also risks and uncertainties faced by the Group have been in place provide an overall picture of performance, covering many for the year to 31 March 2018 and up to the date of this report, aspects which are not financial including performance against which is in accordance with the Code and Guidance on Risk commitments and ODIs for each of Severn Trent Water Limited Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and and Dee Valley Water Limited.
Both Severn Trent Water Limited Business Reporting September 2014 the Guidance.
A risk and Dee Valley Water Limited appoint independent engineering identification and horizon scanning update was provided to the consultants, Jacobs and Black & Veatch respectively, to report Board in March 2018.
During its review of risk management and provide assurance on those aspects.
The Committee during the year, the Board explicitly considered the target receives reports from Jacobs and Deloitte on their work for position for significant risks and whether target risk positions Severn Trent Water Limited, and Black & Veatch and Deloitte for are appropriate and confirmed that suitable timescales had been Dee Valley Water Limited, as part of its review of the respective agreed for reaching them.
88 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Risk management governance process The Groups risk management governance process is based on the three lines of defence model and is scrutinised by the Audit Committee, through delegated authority from the Severn Trent Plc Board.
Policy oversight GAA | Doing the Right Thing | Group policies Risk tolerance Risk appetite BOARD Report ERM reports Delegated authority Internal Audit AUDIT COMMITTEE Whistleblowing Bribery and fraud Third line of defence Internal Audit Independent review and oversight by Internal Audit, which independently evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management control and governance processes.
Second line of defence management ERM team Inform Inform Business units are monitored by management and the ERM team which and monitors, and provide assurance, on compliance with Group policies and and procedures.
The ERM team reports to the Audit Committee and Board on improve prioritise the ERM process, principal risks and related controls.
First line of defence line management risk champions Line management accountability for compliance with Group policies, Doing the Right Thing and GAA.
Risk champions within each business unit identify, collate and report risk data to the ERM team.
OVERSIGHT Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89
