Governance Nomination committee report Dear shareholder The primary role of the Committee is to consider Board composition and orderly succession, both for executive and non-executive directors.
Succession planning and Non-executive directors I reported in detail last year on the process for the development search fora new non-executive director.
This As Chairman of this Committee, my focus is on Board culminated in the recommendation to the Board to succession and talent development to ensure that appoint Richard Akers.
He joined the Board at the there is a pipeline of able and experienced people in end of November 2017 and a detailed summary of his the business for potential future senior executive and induction process is contained within this report.
Hilary Riva will retire at the 2019 AGM.
We have The Committee ensures that the evolution of the commenced a search for an additional nonBoards membership is planned and properly executive director to join us on the Board as her managed, and that in the event of unforeseen changes, replacement.
management and oversight of the business and long-term strategy would not be disrupted.
Engagement with shareholders In considering executive director succession, we As Chairman of the Committee, I consult with address continuity in, and development of, the shareholders regarding succession.
With the departure management team below Board level.
Current executive Committee members from the UK Corporate Governance Code to extend directors have a long tenure.
Whilst there are no the tenure of Jill Little by a year, I have written to Jonathan Nicholls Chairman immediate vacancies at Board level, we recognise that it shareholders representing 66% of our share capital to is important to develop internal talent.
Our development Richard Akers ascertain their views on this approach.
Of those that planning encourages employees to fulfil their responded, all were in favour of the proposal.
potential and grow in their roles.
Jill Little I am available to shareholders throughout the year We continue to keep the composition of the Board Dermot Mathias and at the 2019 AGM to answer questions on the under review.
Hilary Riva Directors standing for Sally Walden Jonathan Nicholls re-election Chairman Nomination Committee Dermot Mathias and Sally Walden have been non-executive directors for more than six years.
The 26 November 2018 Committee has concluded that they continue to bring to the Board the appropriate range of skills and expertise to operate effectively and maintain their independence.
The Committee therefore recommends that they remain on the Board for a further year.
As set out on page 74, Jill Little will remain on the Focus for 2019 Board for a further year.
The Committee advised the Board on the proposal to re-elect each director, Non-executive succession other than Hilary Riva, who will retire from the Board Culture at the 2019 AGM as she will reach nine years' service in February 2019.
Diversity policy action plan Oversight of employee development Key activities Appointment of Richard Akers recommended to the Board Committee Report Proposed directors for election and re-election Reviewed skills of directors for re-election with more than 6 years service October 2017 November 2017 December 2017 January 2018 February 2018 March 2018 April 2018 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 80 3 Governance Nomination committee report continued Non-executive director induction Diversity The Chairman led the induction process for Richard Akers, The Board recognises the importance of diversity, both in its membership, and its employees.
It has a clear policy to promote assisted by the Company Secretary.
The Board considers that quotas are not appropriate in determining Core programme Richard Akers' induction began shortly after the announcement its composition and has therefore chosen not to set targets but of his appointment on 5 October 2017.
In addition to various onekeeps the topic of diversity under consideration in all aspects of to-one meetings see below, he was also provided with reading Board composition.
and reference material relating to our operations.
As there are a Diversity includes but is not limited to gender, and is considered small number of senior employees in one location, Richard met at every level of recruitment.
All appointments to the Board, and the team during the process.
elsewhere, are made on merit.
Gender diversity across the One-to-one Chairman Company is set out below.
briefings Chief Executive For the second year running, we were top of FTSE 250 in the Portfolio tours with Property Directors Hampton-Alexander review for the highest female Finance Director representation on the executive committee and direct reports.
The Hampton-Alexander review, which is an independent, Chairs of Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee business-led initiative supported by the Government, aims to Key advisors: external auditors, valuers, corporate increase the number of women in leadership positions in FTSE 350 communications companies.
Reading and Role of a director: Directors duties and Shaftesbury policies Senior leadership All employees Directors reference material The Board: Schedule of matters reserved, minutes, and procedures team excluding Rules: Articles of Association executive directors Current issues: Shareholder feedback The Group: Key information including history, structure, financial reports and budget 3 12 30% People: Structure chart 4 3 18 40% Relationships: Key advisors and joint venture partner 7 57% 43% 60% 70% Board Committees: Terms of reference, membership, and minutes Female Male We were ranked in the top 200 globally for gender diversity by Key responsibilities Equileap which provides insight on diversity data.
Review the structure, size and composition of the We support initiatives to promote diversity within the real estate Board and its Committees including skills, experience, sector.
Brian Bickell is a board member of Freehold, a forum for independence and diversity and make LGBT real estate professionals.
recommendations to the Board accordingly.
We have committed to the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark Lead the process for new Board appointments and scheme which aims to drive behaviour changes by encouraging review succession for directors and senior businesses in the real estate sector to look carefully at their management.
employment practices and to ensure inclusivity is embedded in their operations.
During the year, we have appointed two Review the time commitment expected from the permanent employees and four interim employees and these Chairman and non-executive directors.
principles have been applied in the recruitment process.
Ensure an effectiveness review of the Board, its We are a member of Real Estate Balance whose objective is to Committees and directors is conducted annually.
achieve a better gender balance, at board and executive management level, in the real estate industry, by supporting the development of a female talent pipeline across the sector.
The Group is a signatory to the 30% Club which is a campaign to achieve a minimum of 30% women on FTSE 350 boards.
It also seeks to develop a diverse talent pool.
Our Board has achieved the 30% target.
Diversity is wider than gender balance, and the Board is committed Succession planning for executive to maintaining a diverse workforce.
We will be preparing a policy and non-executive directors and action plan in the coming year.
Shaftesbury March 2018 April 2018 May 2018 August 2018 June 2018 September 2018 July 2018 Annual Report 2018 81
