Governance Audit committee report Accountability Dear shareholder I am pleased to present the Committees report which highlights the key activities and focus for the year ended 30 September 2018.
The Committee is an important element of the Effectiveness governance structure.
It is composed solely of The Committee receives comprehensive reports for independent non-executive directors, with a good consideration on a timely basis in advance of meetings.
diversity of experience, including property, retail and This facilitates a good quality of discussion and level finance.
For the purpose of the UK Corporate of challenge by the Committee.
Governance Code, I meet the requirement of having appropriate recent and relevant financial experience.
The performance of the Committee was considered as part of the wider Board effectiveness review.
The review was positive and we believe that the Committee Meetings continues to operate effectively.
At my request, all meetings are attended by the external auditor, the Chairman and members of the senior Engagement with shareholders management team.
I welcome questions from shareholders on the The Committee meets privately with the external Committees activities.
If you wish to discuss any aspect auditor and the valuers to discuss any matters they of this report, please contact me via the Company may wish to raise.
The Committee is satisfied that Secretary.
I will be attending the 2019 AGM and look both the external auditor and valuers remain Committee members forward to meeting you there.
independent and objective in their work.
Dermot Mathias Chairman I would like to thank the other members of the Throughout the year, I meet with executive directors, Committee, management and our external auditors as appropriate, to obtain a good understanding of Richard Akers for their support during the year.
key issues affecting the Group which helps me in my Jill Little oversight of the agenda and discussions at Committee meetings.
Hilary Riva Dermot Mathias Chairman Audit Committee Sally Walden Risk, control and assurance 26 November 2018 The Risk Committee evaluates the risk and control arrangements, reporting to the Audit Committee.
Whilst we do not have a formal internal audit function, we commission external reviews, from time to time, to supplement the existing risk and control arrangements.
Reviews this year and anticipated work See page 78 for the Board effectiveness review for the coming year, are set out in the following report.
Annual report Re-appointment of Risk management and Key activities auditors internal control Viability statement Independence and Going concern objectivity of auditors Committee report Approved auditor fees October 2017 November 2017 December 2017 January 2018 April 2018 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 82 3 3 Governance Audit committee report continued Financial Reporting Key responsibilities The Committee reviewed the content and tone of the annual and half year results.
The Finance Director provided a Review the work of the external auditor and valuer commentary on the draft results, financial position and and any significant financial judgement made by key estimates and judgements.
The executive directors confirmed to the Committee that they Monitor the reporting process and financial were not aware of any material misstatements in the half year management.
and annual results and the auditors confirmed that they had Review the full and half year financial statements, found no material misstatements in the course of their work.
including consideration of material estimates and After reviewing the reports from management and, following areas of judgement exercised in their preparation.
discussions with the external auditor and valuers, the Committee Advise the Board on various statements made in the was satisfied that: Annual Report, including those on viability, going the financial statements appropriately addressed the critical concern, risk and controls and whether, when read judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the amounts as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and reported and the disclosures: understandable and provides the information the processes used for determining the value of the assets necessary for shareholders to assess performance, and liabilities had been appropriately reviewed, challenged business model and strategy.
and were sufficiently robust: and Consider the appointment of the external auditor, the Group has adopted appropriate accounting policies.
their reports to the Committee, performance, During the year, we received a letter from the Financial objectivity and independence.
Reporting Council FRC, following a review of our 2017 Annual Review the risk management framework and ensure 1 Report by their Conduct Committee.
No questions or queries that risks are carefully identified and assessed, and arose from the review and no response from us was requested.
that systems of risk management and internal A number of minor matters were noted for consideration and, control are in place and effective.
where appropriate, changes have been made to disclosures in Consider the need for an internal audit function.
Focus for 2019 1 The FR C noted that the review was carried out without the benefit of a detailed understanding of our business or the underlying transactions Assessing the effectiveness of key controls entered into, although it was conducted by staff who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
They also commented that Review of one of our managing agent's processes their role is to consider compliance with reporting requirements, rather than to verify information provided.
Therefore, their letter does not provide Consideration of certain tax procedures assurance that our 2017 Annual Report is correct in all material respects.
Whistleblowing policy H alf year results Non-audit fees Considered need for internal audit function A udit plan and strategy Cyber-security Risks and controls update Ext ernal auditor Risk management and effectiveness controls Cyber-security update Shaftesbury April 2018 May 2018 June 2018 July 2018 August 2018 September 2018 Annual Report 2018 83 Governance Audit committee report continued The Committee reported to the Board that, in its view, the Annual 2018 Annual Report Report was fair balanced and understandable.
The Boards confirmation can be found in the directors responsibilities Valuation of investment properties statement on page 110.
The valuations provided by external valuers are significant components of the annual and half year results.
External valuations Viability statement are subjective and require significant estimates to be made, including, but not limited to, market yields and ERVs.
At 30 September 2018, At the request of the Board, the Committee reviewed the Viability the valuation of investment properties was 3.72 billion.
Additionally, Statement and the period for which the Board should assess the our share of the valuation of investment properties held in joint prospects of the Group.
We continue to adopt a five-year venture was 224.6 million.
A commentary on these valuations is assessment period, based on lease lengths and review patterns for set out on page 42 and a summary of the key assumptions made the majority of the portfolio and corresponding to current by the valuers is shown on pages 144 to 145. forecasts.
The Committee discussed the viability assessment, prepared by management, which included, inter alia: In reviewing the valuations, the Committee considered: stress testing in severe but plausible scenarios, particularly in an analysis and commentary by management: respect of loan covenant compliance: and presentations from the valuers of the wholly-owned portfolio an assessment of investment commitments alongside liquidity and the Longmartin joint venture, which included comparable and financing capacity.
evidence for the key assumptions adopted: and The Committee was satisfied that the five-year assessment period an assessment by the external auditor, who used in-house real remained appropriate and recommended the Viability Statement estate valuers as part of its audit.
The Committee was satisfied with the assumptions and estimates used in the valuation.
Going concern The Committee reviewed whether it was appropriate to adopt the Other estimates going concern basis in the preparation of the results.
In considering Whilst not material in the context of the Groups assets or net this, it reviewed the Groups five-year forecasts, availability of assets, the Committee reviewed the estimates made by liquidity and expected headroom under the financial covenants in management in calculating the charge for equity-settled debt arrangements.
Following the review, it recommended to the remuneration and was satisfied with the assumptions adopted.
Board that it was appropriate to adopt the going concern basis.
The above description of the significant estimates should be read The Boards confirmation is set out on page 108. in conjunction with the Independent Auditors Report on pages 111 to 117 and the significant accounting policies disclosed in the notes External valuers to the financial statements, particularly note 1 which describes The Committee monitored the valuers objectivity and significant estimates and assumptions.
Further information on the independence and met with the valuer of the wholly-owned approach taken by the valuers in valuing investment properties and portfolio without management present to allow them to raise any a sensitivity analysis on equivalent yields and ERV are set out in concerns they may have had.
The valuers have confirmed that they note 8 to the financial statements.
are appropriately qualified to carry out the valuations and that fees they receive are not a material part of their overall fee income.
Fair, balanced and understandable Further details in respect of the valuer of the wholly-owned The Committee discussed a report from the Finance Director portfolio, including fees for valuation and non-valuation services, covering the systems and controls around the preparation of the are given in note 8 to the financial statements.
The Committee financial statements and whether the Annual Report: remains satisfied that the valuers are objective and independent.
was open and honest, reporting challenges alongside successes and opportunities: External auditors provided clear explanations of KPIs and their link to the strategy: The Company has complied with the provisions of the Statutory explained our business model, strategy and accounting policies Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation simply, using clear language: Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. included clear signposts to additional information: and was in accordance with the information provided to the Board This is the third year that Eamonn McGrath has been the lead audit during the year.
Eamonn has announced his retirement following the conclusion of the 2018 audit.
His successor, Dan Saunders, has met The Committee considered whether the Annual Report: with the Chairman, Audit Committee Chairman and Finance was fair, balanced and understandable: Director.
We are assured that the transition and handover period provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess will be managed efficiently.
The Committee would like to thank the Groups performance, business model and strategy: and Eamonn for his professionalism as audit partner to the Group over had been written in straightforward language, without the past three years.
unnecessary repetition, and that the use of Alternative There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of external Performance Measures had been adequately explained and auditor.
In accordance with the current regulations, we will re-tender reconciled to the financial statements and not been given more the audit at least every ten years.
The last tender was in 2014. prominence than a corresponding measure under IFRS.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 84 3 3 Governance Audit committee report continued Accountability Annual auditor assessment Risk management and internal control Annually, the Committee assesses the qualifications, expertise, Our approach to risk management and internal control is set out resources, and independence of the Groups external auditors, as on page 57 to 58.
Principal risks and uncertainties are disclosed on well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
It does this through pages 59 to 60. discussion with the Finance Director, review of a detailed Risks and internal controls are monitored by executive assessment questionnaire and confirmations from the external management on a day-to-day basis.
The Risk Committee formally auditor.
The Chairman of the Committee and the Finance Director assesses strategic and emerging risks, as well as key mitigating also meet with an independent partner of Ernst & Young LLP EY.
controls, reporting to the Audit Committee.
EY has confirmed to the Committee that: Executive management reports to the Audit Committee on its It has internal procedures in place to identify any aspects of assessment of the effectiveness of key controls.
In the coming non-audit work which could compromise its role as auditor and year, we anticipate this work will be supplemented by an external to ensure the objectivity of its audit report.
review see internal audit, below.
The total fees paid by the Group during the year do not Additionally, the external auditors review procedures and controls represent a material part of its firms fee income.
as part of their work and comment, where appropriate, to the It considers that it has maintained audit independence Committee.
The Committee remains satisfied that there is a robust review of The Committees relationship with the external auditor is one of risks and that the controls over the significant risks operate openness and professionalism.
From its discussions during the effectively.
year, it considers that the auditor provides appropriate professional challenge and reports its findings in a frank and Internal audit honest manner.
The Committee reviews the need for an internal audit function During the year, an Audit Quality Review Team AQRT from the FRC annually.
The Committee has advised the Board that it considers undertook an inspection of EYs audit of the Groups financial that there is no need to establish an internal audit function.
This statements for the year ended 30 September 2017.
As part of that assessment is based on the focused nature of the Groups process, the Audit Committee Chairman spoke with the AQRT to business, the close involvement of the executive directors in share the Audit Committees perspectives on the quality of EYs day-to-day decision making and relatively simple Group structure.
audit and its delivery on commitments made by the audit firm as From time to time, the Group engages external advisors to carry part of the audit tender process.
On completion of the review, the out targeted reviews to supplement the existing risk management Audit Committee received and considered the AQRTs final report and internal control arrangements and provide further assurance.
on its inspection and discussed it with the audit partner.
The In 2018, this comprised: report gave the Committee no concerns over the quality, reviews of the cyber security and GDPR arrangements: and objectivity or independence of the audit.
an assessment of procedures to identify, evaluate and control The Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the strategic risks.
external audit and the interaction between the auditors and the Committee.
Also, it is satisfied as to the auditors qualifications, Projects anticipated for the coming year are set out on page 83 expertise and resources and remains confident that its objectivity and the findings from these reviews will be made available to the and independence are not in any way impaired by the provision of external auditor.
Whistleblowing Audit fees The Committee reviewed and approved the Groups whistleblowing Fees payable to the auditor for audit and non-audit services are procedures and has introduced a dedicated whistleblowing line for set out in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 126. employees and the wider supply chain.
Total fees related to non-audit services represented 18% of the total fees for audit services 2017: 41%.
The auditor was also paid 31,400 2017: 31,000 for its audit of Longmartin Properties Limited.
The Committees policy is that non-audit assignments are not awarded to the external audit firm if there is a risk that audit independence and objectivity could be compromised.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, non-audit fees should not exceed 70% of audit and assurance fees over a rolling three-year period.
The award of any non-audit assignment to the auditors in excess of 25,000 is subject to the prior approval of the Committee.
