Governance Corporate governance Dear shareholder Corporate governance is embedded in our culture and the day-to-day running of your Company.
I am committed to maintaining the high standards of remain on the board for a further year.
We value Jill governance we have demonstrated for many years.
Little's experience and wisdom: she makes a valuable We pride ourselves on being open, transparent and contribution to the Board and her independence is engaged with our shareholders, stakeholders and our undoubted.
However, she will step down as senior local community.
The theme of our annual report independent director and from membership of all this year reflects the network of our relationships the Committees of the Board at the 2019 AGM.
As with our wider stakeholder group.
extending her service beyond nine years is a departure from the UK Corporate Governance Code, I am pleased to report how we have complied in full we have written to our largest shareholders to seek with the UK Corporate Governance Code, which sets their views.
Of those that responded, all indicated out the principles of good governance we apply in that they were supportive of this approach.
We are now preparing for Therefore, we are proposing Jill Littles re-election an updated code which will come into effect for the for a further year at the 2019 AGM.
Richard Akers, who joined the Board in November 2017 will become senior independent director at the Board changes conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
Jill Little, our senior independent director, has been on the Board since February 2010 and will reach nine Employees years service in February 2019.
Hilary Riva also reaches nine years service at the same time and will We have continued to focus on employee retire from the Board at the 2019 AGM.
We have instigated a number of procedures to ensure we As part of our non-executive succession process, we recruit from a diverse talent pool.
We have continued are currently undertaking a search for an additional our investment in training and development which is Board member to join us following Hilary Riva's important to ensure that employees grow in their retirement.
However, in order to manage the roles and that we retain their skills and experience.
succession of our non-executive directors, we are smoothing the bunching of appointments that has occurred in the past by proposing that Jill Little 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code A new code comes into effect next year.
This will apply to us from 1 October 2019.
However, in accordance with best practice, we are assessing what provisions we have in place already, and what we can adopt early during the course of this year.
We will report on compliance and progress in next years annual report.
Whats in place now: Whats coming in during the year: Two-year post-vesting holding period in the The remuneration policy to adopt the same LTIP rules.
pension level for directors as employees for newly-appointed directors.
This will apply from Designated non-executive director for the 2019 AGM, if the policy is approved by employee engagement.
Progress work on culture to document our values.
Update terms of reference for committees to reflect new code.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 74 3 Governance Corporate governance continued The Executive Committee comprises the executive As you will see from my biography, I am a director Culture directors, company secretary and the senior of two other FTSE companies and chairman of Our corporate culture underpins the success of leadership team.
Its role is to monitor operational one of those.
I would like to assure you that I have our business and is embedded throughout our matters and contribute to the longer-term evolution sufficient time to devote to my role as your business model.
It provides Chairman and do not envisage any new senior employees below Board level greater The Board has an open and transparent culture appointments.
engagement and experience in the management which is facilitated and monitored by me.
This is We are proud of our annual report and strive of the business.
We continue to embed the particularly evident in Board meetings where each year to improve the transparency and Executive Committee structure into the business.
discussion is constructive and open.
We received EPRA gold This Committee meets on a monthly basis and Last year, the Board undertook the first stage of awards for both our sustainability and financial this year had an off-site meeting where the team our work to articulate and document our culture reporting in last years annual report.
considered how the business should respond to and values.
During this year, the work has continued We are committed to being a sustainablyvarious structural changes in the business with employees across the organisation who focused business and we are working with our environment in which we operate.
participated in a similar workshop as the directors.
wider stakeholder group to improve the We appointed Hilary Riva as the designated The output comparison showed that, environment.
Therefore, we are this year using non-executive director with responsibility for organisation-wide, the views on the culture of the the authority in our articles to move away from employee engagement.
Her remit is to engage with business were consistent between the Board and the paper version of this report and ask our employees so the Board understands their employees.
shareholders to look at it online in future years.
On Hilary Rivas retirement from the Board As one of the first activities as designated You have the option to continue to receive the at the 2019 AGM, Richard Akers will take on the role.
non-executive director for employee engagement, report through your letterbox.
We hope you We have a wide range of external advisors with Hilary Riva set up a culture group and is meeting share our commitment and in future will read this whom we work closely.
We are very aware of the with employees and our external human report online.
importance of these relationships together resources advisor, to document our values and We are always willing to engage with our with how their behaviour impacts on our wider behaviours that will be used to describe our shareholders who are the owners of the business.
This year, we have updated our culture and frame how we work.
As this work The Board, and in particular Committee Supplier Code of Conduct, compliance with spans more than one reporting year, we expect Chairmen, are available via the Company which is mandated throughout our supply chain.
to report more fully next year.
Secretary for dialogue with shareholders.
Data protection Jonathan Nicholls The Data Protection Act 2018 came into force in Chairman May.
It has changed the way personal data is Compliance with the UK managed by all businesses.
Our policies and 26 November 2018 Corporate Governance procedures were updated and we verified that, not just us, but key suppliers were also prepared Code for the changes.
This has linked in with our work The Company has complied in full with on cyber security and making sure we have the main and supporting principles of the robust IT systems in place.
UK Corporate Governance Code during the year.
Their application is contained in Board performance the rest of the governance section.
Where evaluation appropriate further information is given This year, we have undertaken an internal Board on the Code provisions and how they are performance review.
recommendations made, and the actions to implement those recommendations, are summarised on page 78.
Shaftesbury Summary of Board performance evaluation: Annual page 78 Report 2018 75 Governance Leadership Corporate governance Leadership The Board has executive and non-executive directors, with a wide range of business experience, including property, finance, retail and fund management which, together, provide a balanced skillset.
The Chairman leads the Board.
He was independent on his appointment to the Board.
He chairs the Nomination Board and Committee meeting attendance Committee, but, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, is not a member of the Remuneration or Audit Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Independent Committees.
Each of the other non-executive directors is Number held 5 3 6 2 considered by the Board to be independent as they do not fall within any of the criteria within the UK Corporate Chairman Governance Code that would impact their independence.
1,2 5 - - 2 N A Jonathan Nicholls The Board meets regularly and there is an annual cycle of topics to be considered, including key management and Non-executive directors financial updates, as well as approval of significant acquisitions and refurbishment schemes.
The non- 3 4 4 2 2 4 4 1 1 Y Richard Akers executive directors meet after each Board meeting without management present.
5 3 6 2 Y Jill Little Each Committee provides a summary of business discussed 1 5 3 6 2 Y Dermot Mathias to the Board and the minutes of all Committee meetings 5 3 6 1 Y are circulated to the Board.
Hilary Riva 1 The Chief Executive is responsible for the operational and 5 3 6 2 Y Sally Walden day-to-day management of the business.
Senior employees below Board level are invited to present Executive directors to the Board on operational topics during the course of the 2 5 Brian Bickell year.
Non-executive directors have direct and open access to all employees below Board level.
5 Simon Quayle The structure of our Committees is set out opposite.
5 Tom Welton 2 5 Chris Ward 1 Chairman of a Committee 2 Has attended Committee meetings by invitation 3 Indic ates the actual number of meetings Richard Akers could attend following his appointment totheBoard and Committees on 28.11.2017 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 76 3 Governance Leadership Corporate governance Leadership continued Board of directors The Board is collectively responsible for strategy, performance, risk management and sustainability Board Committees Certain functions of the Board and decision-making powers are delegated to the Board Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Financial reporting Remuneration policy Succession planning Monitor external auditors Annual remuneration including Recommend candidates bonus and LTIP awards Risk and internal control Board performance evaluation Set annual performance objectives Diversity Read the report pages 82 - 85 Read the report pages 86 - 107 Read the report pages 80 - 81 Chief Executive Management Committees The Management Committees have responsibility for setting and executing certain strategic outcomes overseen by the Chief Executive Executive Sustainability Risk Community Pensions Committee Committee Committee Investment Committee Committee Implementation of Sustainability policy Assessment of Pension scheme long-term strategy and strategy principal risks Strategy for governance community Day-to-day Annual Effectiveness of risk investment operational sustainability report management and matters internal control Approve investment in community activities Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 77 Governance Corporate governance Effectiveness Effectiveness All directors are subject to annual re-election.
Jill Little will have served nine years as a non-executive director of the Company in Directors skills February 2019.
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, she will cease to be independent.
For the reasons explained on page 74, Fund we are proposing her re-election by shareholders for a further Property Retail Finance Remuneration management year though she will step down as senior independent director Executive directors and from all committee memberships following the 2019 AGM.
Brian Bickell Hilary Riva will retire at the 2019 AGM having reached nine years on the Board.
Simon Quayle Sally Walden and Dermot Mathias have more than six years service Tom Welton and were subject to a detailed review by the Nomination Committee which considered their contribution and independence.
Chris Ward In terms of Committee membership, unless not permitted by the UK Corporate Governance Code, all non-executive directors are Non-executive directors members of each Committee.
This ensures that they are involved in Jonathan Nicholls all aspects of the Committees' business.
Jill Little All Committees have written terms of reference which are available on the corporate website.
Sally Walden Dermot Mathias Tenure of directors Richard Akers 2017 Richard Akers Executive directors Jonathan Nicholls 2016 Non-executive directors Hilary Riva Sally Walden 2012 Dermot Mathias 2012 Chris Ward 2012 Jill Little 2010 Board performance evaluation Hilary Riva 2010 A full  evaluation took place in 2017.
As a result of that Tom Welton 1997 review, non-executive directors now meet at every Board meeting without the executives present.
We have also streamlined the volume and format of the Simon Quayle 1997 information sent to the Board.
Brian Bickell 1987 This year, an internal questionnaire-based evaluation was led by the Chairman 1987 2018 and supported by the Company Secretary.
Each director was invited to comment on the operations and performance of the Board, its Committees and their fellow directors.
The results were collated by the Company Secretary and feedback was provided by the Chairman at the September meeting of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director undertook a review of the Chairman's performance with contributions from the other directors and provided feedback on his performance to the Board as a whole.
The evaluation this year highlighted that the key area of focus for the year ahead remains both executive and non-executive succession.
See page 80 for Nomination Committee non-executive director tenure review Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 78 3 Governance Governance Corporate governance Relations with shareholders Relations with shareholders The Board considers regular contact with our shareholders to At the 2018 AGM, three resolutions received votes against in be an important aspect of corporate governance.
Investor excess of 20%: relations is the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
Ordinary resolution authority to allot shares: 27.4% During the year, the Chief Executive and executive directors held Special resolutions authority to allot shares on a non-preover 175 meetings with UK and overseas institutional investors, emptive basis: 25.2% and 26.1% comprising both current and potential shareholders as well as In each case, the combined holdings of PEL UK Limited, Orosi equity market analysts.
Meetings involved either group or UK Limited and Orosi UK 2 Limited, our largest shareholder, individual presentations and tours of the portfolio.
Tours provide voted their then 25.02% shareholding against these resolutions.
an opportunity to see our assets, understand management strategy, and to meet the senior leadership team.
Feedback Votes against resolutions in excess of 20% are recorded on the from these meetings is provided to the Board.
Investment Associations public register of substantial votes against resolutions.
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, All directors are present at the AGM and available to answer companies are expected to engage with shareholders who cast questions from shareholders.
Our AGM includes a presentation large votes against a resolution, to understand the reasons for from the Chief Executive on our business activities.
The votes against these resolutions followed the Live audio webcasts with replay facilities are available for the shareholders request to us to circulate a letter to our other annual and half year results presentations to analysts.
A shareholders under the authority of Section 314 of the live-streamed video webcast will be available for the 2018, and Companies Act 2006. subsequent, analyst results presentation.
Since the 2018 AGM, the Board has sought to engage with the During the year, we have undertaken a number of engagement beneficial owner.
To date, we have only received an activities with major shareholders and corporate governance acknowledgement of our letters so we will continue to seek a agencies: meeting as we believe constructive dialogue and engagement is in the interests of all our shareholders.
consulted on the extension of tenure of Jill Little.
consulted on the 2019 Remuneration Policy which is being The Board considers the authority sought by the allotment and proposed for a binding shareholder vote at the AGM.
pre-emption resolutions continues to be in the best interests of the Company, and will propose them at the 2019 AGM.
offered general engagement meetings with the Chairman.
Results Trading presentations updates and webcasts Sector conferences Annual General Meeting Roadshows Portfolio tours Consultations Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 79
