GOVERNANCE Nominations Committee report Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2018, on behalf of the Board.
"The composition of the Nominations Committee meets with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code July 2018 ""the Code"" but, in line with good practice, membership is reviewed annually."
During 2018, the Committee dealt with the recruitment of two new Non-Executive Directors and I am delighted to welcome Mr A. C. Lovell and Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy to the Board.
Further detail on the recruitment process is provided in this report.
Ms J. E. Ashdown will retire from the Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2019.
The search for a new Non-Executive Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee is well advanced.
The Committees work for 2019 will be focused on succession planning, talent and diversity and we will carefully consider the changes in the Committees remit arising from the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Andrew Allner The Committee Chair of the Nominations Committee 7 March 2019 understands the importance of its role in ensuring the Board contains the right mix of skills and experience to support the business strategy.
Andrew Allner Chair of the Nominations Committee www.
com Stock code: SHI 81 Nominations Committee report Purpose and aim Board succession planning The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee, which The Nominations Committee gives full consideration to succession are reviewed regularly, are set out on the Companys website planning for directors, both Non-Executive and Executive, and other www.
The Committee will be adopting new Terms of senior management of the Company in the course of its work, taking Reference for 2019, in particular, to reflect its wider responsibilities into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company under the new UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to and determining what skills and expertise will thus be required on succession planning and diversity across the Group.
The principal the Board in the future.
responsibility of the Nominations Committee is to ensure that, Mr C. V. Geoghegan retired from the Board on 9 March 2018.
Mr M. collectively and at any given time, the members of the Board Ewell replaced Mr Geoghegan as Senior Independent Director until possess the necessary balance of knowledge, skills and experience his subsequent retirement from the Board on 31 July 2018.
This was to support and develop the strategy of the Company.
In seeking part of a succession process whereby Mr Ewell agreed to serve on to achieve this, the Nominations Committee will recommend new the Board until a new Non-Executive Director had been identified Board appointments as and when considered appropriate and will and appointed.
Mr A. C. Lovell was appointed the Senior Independent ensure that appropriate succession planning procedures are in Director on joining the Board on 1 August 2018.
In accordance with our Terms of Reference, I, as the Chairman was also appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2018.
Mr of the Nominations Committee, report our conclusions to the Board Lovell and Mr Ragoucy will offer themselves for election at the May and it is the Board as a whole which is responsible for making new 2019 Annual General Meeting.
In making recommendations for the annual re-election of the The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition Chairman and Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance the skills, knowledge, experience, independence and also the time of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to ensure their commitments of each director to ensure that they have sufficient continued effectiveness.
Appropriate succession plans for the time to fulfil their responsibilities to the business.
During 2018, Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and the Groups senior I significantly reduced my external commitments following my management are also kept under review.
retirement as Chairman and Non-Executive Director of Marshalls plc in May 2018 and as Non-Executive Director of Northgate plc in Meetings and membership December 2018.
I retain my roles as Chairman of Fox Marble plc During the year the Committee met on two occasions.
A quorum is and of The Go-Ahead Group plc.
As a small company traded on AIM, three members, the majority of whom must be independent Nonmy time commitments in respect of Fox Marble plc are relatively Executive Directors.
Members of the Committee are not involved in low.
I have also demonstrated a significant time commitment to SIG matters affecting their own position.
during the year through my involvement in the audit tender and the shareholder consultation on a new Directors remuneration policy.
As at 31 December 2018, the Committee comprised the Chairman, Following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director of SIG and the Chief Executive Officer and the five independent Non-Executive as discussed with the Company in advance, Mr Ragoucy has been Directors of the Company.
appointed interim CEO of Balta Group NV, where he also serves as Chairman.
This is a temporary position which will cease once a new Chairman of the Committee Members CEO for Balta Group NV is identified.
Mr A. J. Allner Ms A. Abt Taking into account the above and having considered the time Ms J. E. Ashdown commitments of the other Non-Executive Directors, the Committee Mr I.
B. Duncan and the Board have confirmed they are satisfied that I and the other Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to fulfil our Mr A. C. Lovell responsibilities to the business.
Mr M. Oldersma All directors will be put forward for re-election at the 2019 AGM with Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy the exception of Ms J. E. Ashdown who will retire at the conclusion of the AGM.
During the year, the Nominations Committee considered the Boards structure and recommendations for re-election of directors at the 2018 AGM, and recommended the appointments of Mr A. C. Lovell and Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy.
82 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE General Diversity In general terms, when considering candidates for appointment The Board acknowledges the importance of diversity in its broadest as Directors of the Company, the Nominations Committee, in sense in the boardroom as a driver of board effectiveness.
Diversity conjunction with the Board, drafts a detailed job specification and encompasses diversity of perspective, experience, background, candidate profile.
In drafting this, consideration would be given to the psychological type and personal attributes.
The policy on Board existing experience, knowledge and background of Board members diversity is available on the Companys website www.
as well as the strategic and business objectives of the Group.
The policy states, amongst other things, that the Board will keep under review and evaluate its balance and composition to ensure Once a detailed specification has been agreed with the Board, the that both it and its Committees have the appropriate mix of skills, Committee would then work with an appropriate external search experience, independence and knowledge to ensure their continued and selection agency to identify candidates of the appropriate calibre effectiveness.
In doing so, the Board will take into account diversity, and with whom an initial candidate shortlist could be agreed.
The including diversity of gender and cultural background, amongst other consultants are required to work to a specification that includes the relevant factors.
strong desirability of producing a full list of candidates who meet the essential criteria, whilst reflecting the benefits of diversity.
The Board The Board recognises that gender diversity is a significant aspect will only engage such consultants who are signed up to the voluntary of diversity and acknowledges Hampton-Alexander Review code of conduct on gender diversity on corporate boards.
recommendations which aim to increase the number of women in leadership positions in FTSE 350 companies, including a target of Shortlisted candidates would then be invited to interview with 33% representation of women on FTSE 350 company boards by members of the Committee and, if recommended by the Committee, 2020.
The Board also notes recommendations of the Parker Review would be invited to meet the entire Board before any decision is on ethnic diversity on UK boards.
taken relating to the appointment.
The Board supports the Hampton-Alexander recommendations and During the year under review, in connection with the appointments Parker Review recommendations.
Female representation on the of Mr A. C. Lovell and Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy, the Committee used the Board is currently at 25%.
The Committee will continue to consider services of Lygon Group who have no other connection with the diversity when recommending any future Board appointments.
Committee is seeking to increase female representation, in particular at senior management level across the Group.
The process described above was followed in respect of the appointments of Mr A. C. Lovell and Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy as NonAs part of corporate governance, the Committee reviews its own Executive Directors with effect from 1 August 2018. performance annually and considers where improvements can be made.
The Committee's performance was reviewed in January 2019 Following the appointment of a new director, the Chairman, in as part of the external review of Board and Committee effectiveness.
conjunction with the Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and 2019 objectives tailored induction to the Company is given.
Although not an exhaustive list, the induction includes one-to-one meetings with key management It is the Nominations Committees intention to continue to oversee including HR, Finance, Risk & Internal Audit and Strategic & Corporate the composition and structure of the Board, ensuring that the Group Development and an overview of the Groups structure and strategy is at all times structured to successfully deliver its strategy and to including site visits and an overview of operations.
compete effectively in the marketplaces within which it operates.
The Nominations Committee will also continue to closely monitor the The Committee also carefully reviews and makes recommendations structure, membership and succession plans of senior management concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director, at the and the Board Committees, making recommendations to the Board conclusion of their specified term of office.
The proposed activities for the Committee in 2019 are: review the succession plans for Board and senior management in light of the requirements of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code the '2018 Code' to ensure that they are based on merit and objective criteria and promote the Groups diversity objectives: review the Groups talent objectives and pipeline: review the Terms of Reference of the Committee to ensure they reflect best practice under the 2018 Code: continue to monitor and assess the Boards composition and diversity in light of the third report of the Hampton-Alexander Review and the Parker Review: and longer term succession planning.
Andrew Allner Chair of the Nominations Committee 7 March 2019 www.
