Corporate Governance report Biographical details of the directors holding office at the date of this The Board report, which illustrate their range of experience, appear on pages At 31 December 2018, the Board was made up of eight members 60 and 61.
Details of Committee memberships are set out on pages comprising the Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Non- 67 and 68.
The directors who held office during the year were: At 31 December 2018, SIG had two female Board members, equating Mr A. J. Allner to 25% female representation of its directors.
Non-Executive Chairman Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered by the Board to be Mr M. Oldersma independent of management and free of any relationship which could Chief Executive Officer materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr N. W. Maddock Chief Financial Officer The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the Ms A. Abt independence of those directors who have other appointments Independent Non-Executive Director in outside entities.
The Board considers that each of the NonExecutive Directors brings their own senior level of experience and Ms J. E. Ashdown expertise and that the balance between Non-Executive and Executive Independent Non-Executive Director representation encourages healthy independent challenge to the Mr I.
B. Duncan Executive Directors and senior management.
The Board is also Independent Non-Executive Director satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors is able to dedicate Mr A. C. Lovell sufficient time to their role and responsibilities.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director appointed 1 August 2018 The Non-Executive Directors have been appointed for their specific Mr C. M. P Ragoucy areas of expertise and knowledge.
Their wide-ranging experience Independent Non-Executive Director appointed 1 August 2018 and backgrounds ensure that they can debate matters constructively Mr M. Ewell in relation to both the development of strategy and performance of Independent Non-Executive Director retired 31 July 2018 SIG against objectives set out by the Board.
Mr C. V. Geoghegan The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and Independent Non-Executive Director retired 9 March 2018 remuneration of both the Executive and Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 105.
Mr A. C. Lovell was appointed as the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director with effect from 1 August 2018 succeeding Mr M. Ewell who fulfilled the role following the retirement of Mr C. V. Geoghegan on 9 March 2018.
Mr M. Ewell retired from the Board on 31 July 2018.
Mr C. M. P Ragoucy was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2018.
Ms J. E. Ashdown intends to retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 8 May 2019, as a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
64 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate Election and re-election of directors and clearly defined.
The division of responsibilities is set out in Under the articles of association, all directors are subject to election writing, reviewed by the Company Secretary and agreed by the Board at the AGM immediately following their appointment and to reon a regular basis.
The Board approves any necessary changes to election every three years.
However, in accordance with the Code, reflect changes in legislation, policy and practices.
The Chairman all directors will seek election or re-election at the Companys AGM leads the Board and sets its agenda, ensuring that all directors, each year.
To enable shareholders to make an informed decision, the particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able to make an 2019 Notice of AGM includes biographical details and a statement as effective contribution.
He also ensures that there is a constructive to why the Company believes that the directors should be re-elected.
relationship between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for all operational matters It is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive Directors which include the implementation of the Groups strategy and standing for election or re-election brings considerable management policies approved by the Board.
experience and an independent perspective to the Boards discussions and is considered to be independent of management and The roles for the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Senior free from any relationship or circumstance that could affect, or appear Independent Director are agreed and set out in writing: a summary to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
After reviewing of their roles and division of responsibility is set out below: the outcome of performance evaluations, the Board confirms that the contributions made by the directors offering themselves for election Chairman or re-election at the AGM in May 2019 continue to be effective and Responsible for overall leadership and governance of the Board that the Group supports their re-election.
including induction, development and performance evaluation.
The Chairman intends to confirm at the AGM that the performance Ensures that the directors have an understanding of the views of of each individual continues to be effective and demonstrates the Companys major shareholders.
Ensures a healthy culture of challenge and debate at Board and The terms of the directors service contracts are disclosed in the Committee meetings.
Directors remuneration report on pages 104 to 105.
Full details of directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the The Chairman, at the time of his appointment, met the independence Company and of share options held are set out on pages 101 to 105 criteria set out in the Code.
in the Directors remuneration report.
Chief Executive Officer Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of Responsible for the effective leadership of the Group.
the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available at the AGM, which Strong and focused management and development of the Groups is scheduled to take place on 8 May 2019. operations.
Implementation of the Groups objectives and strategy agreed by Board procedures and responsibilities the Board.
The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis as required by time-critical business needs.
The Board met Maintains good relationships and communications with investors.
formally on nine occasions during the year and individual attendance Works closely with the Chief Financial Officer to ensure at those and the Board committee meetings is set out in the table appropriate financial controls are in place.
All Board members are supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge Develops and implements policies integral to improving the their duties.
Board and committee papers are typically sent out business, including in relation to Health & Safety and Corporate seven days before meetings take place.
The directors are provided Responsibility.
with opportunities for training to ensure that they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and regulation changes, corporate Senior Independent Director governance developments and changing commercial risks.
There Available for approach by or representations from shareholders is an agreed schedule of matters reserved for the Board for and other stakeholders where communications through the collective decision, which can be viewed on the Group's website Chairman or Executive Directors may not seem appropriate.
A sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the These matters include: other directors when necessary.
Determining the strategy and control of the Group: Available to chair the Board in the absence of the Chairman.
Amendments to the structure and capital of the Company The Senior Independent Director is Mr A. C. Lovell.
and Group: Approval of financial reporting: There is no maximum number of directors but there shall at no time be less than two.
Directors may be appointed by the Company Oversight of the Groups internal controls by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A director appointed by Approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size: the Board shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment by the Board membership and appointments shareholders.
Acquisitions and disposals: Corporate governance matters: Whistleblowing arrangements and follow-up action: Review of workforce policies and practices: and Approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
com Stock code: SHI 65 Corporate Governance report The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Board Directors conflicts of interests committees, including the Nominations, Audit, Remuneration and Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the Act Defence Committees.
The Board also appoints committees to to avoid any situation where they have, or can have, a direct or approve specific processes as deemed necessary.
For example, indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the during the year, Board committees were established to approve Companys interests.
This duty is in addition to the obligation that share allotments, and the preliminary and interim results they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction announcements.
or arrangement under consideration by the Company in which The Board has delegated the following matters to the Group they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest.
Directors of Executive Committee: public companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, The development and implementation of strategy, operational where appropriate, if a companys articles of association permit and plans, policies, procedures and budgets as agreed by the Board.
shareholders have approved appropriate amendments.
The monitoring of operating and financial performance.
Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by directors of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation The assessment and control of risk.
of any conflicts by the Board.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when authorising The development and assessment of the Groups health and safety any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures have and corporate responsibility policies and performance.
been applied during the year and are now included as a regular item The terms of reference for each of the Board committees are for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
The Board believes available on the SIG website www.
that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
To enable the Board to perform its duties effectively, all directors have full access to all relevant information and to the services of the The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is Company Secretary, whose responsibility it is to ensure that Board satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as directors of procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the the Company.
Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
There is an agreed procedure whereby directors wishing to take independent legal advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed including the formal minuting of any unresolved concerns that any director may have in connection with the operation of the Group.
During the year there were no such unresolved issues.
Further, on resignation, if a Non-Executive Director had any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him her to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
All Board committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Appropriate training is available to all directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as required.
The Group has operated a paperless meeting system for the Board, Board Committees and Group Executive Committee for a number of years, and currently uses Diligent software.
Using an electronic system for meeting packs supports our online drive across the Group and is consistent with reducing the impact of our operations on the environment.
66 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and committees in 2018 The following table shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year to 31 December 2018: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations 1 9 meetings 6 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings A. Abt 9 9 6 6 5 5 2 2 A. J. Allner 9 9 N A N A 2 2 J. E. Ashdown 9 9 6 6 5 5 2 2 I.
The Board held a number of conference calls throughout the year to deal with specific matters arising between scheduled meetings.
All Board members either attended the call or alternatively, if unavailable, discussed the matter with the Chairman prior to the call, with the Chairman then being able to represent their views.
Mr A. C. Lovell was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2018 and attended all meetings to which he was entitled to attend.
Mr C. M. P Ragoucy was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2018.
Mr Ragoucy was unable to attend one meeting due to a clash with a pre-existing commitment which was made known to the Company prior to his appointment.
Mr M. Ewell resigned from the Board on 31 July 2018.
Mr C. V. Geoghegan resigned from the Board on 9 March 2018.
Of the nine Board meetings held in 2018, one was held by telephone Delegated authorities: conference call.
Monitors the integrity of financial reporting, the performance of the external Auditor and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups This table only shows those meetings which each director attended systems of internal control and related compliance activities.
as a member rather than as an invitee.
Where N A appears in the table the director listed is not a member of the committee.
Directors Members: do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them are Mr I.
Ms A. Abt The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors Ms J. E. Ashdown without the Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Mr A. C. Lovell from 1 August 2018 Director also meets with the other Independent Non-Executive Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy from 1 August 2018 Directors without the Chairman present.
In general, the Board Mr M. Ewell to 31 July 2018 endeavours to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group Mr C. V. Geoghegan to 9 March 2018 business locations in the UK & Ireland and Mainland Europe to help Nominations Committee all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
The The Nominations Committee operates under written terms of Board also provides senior managers from across the Group with the reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
The opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the directors committee comprises the Chair, the Chief Executive Officer and on more informal occasions.
Board members also attend senior the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The meetings of the leadership Group management conferences whenever possible.
committee are chaired by the Non-Executive Chair.
The Chair of All directors in office at the date of the 2018 AGM attended the the committee attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder meeting and were available to answer any questions raised by the questions that might be raised on the committees activities.
committees report is set out on pages 81 to 83.
Group Board Delegated authorities: Audit Committee Ensures that the Board and its committees have the optimum balance of skills, knowledge and experience by nominating suitable The Audit Committee operates under written terms of reference, candidates for approval by the Board to fill executive and nonwhich are consistent with current best practice.
comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chair of the committee attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder Members: questions that might be raised on the committees activities.
The Mr A. J. Allner Chair committees report is set out on pages 76 to 80.
Ms A. Abt The Group has an internal audit function and co-sourced specialist Ms J. E. Ashdown support from KPMG LLP.
The Board annually reviews the need for Mr I.
B. Duncan such a function and the effectiveness of the co-sourced internal Mr A. C. Lovell from 1 August 2018 audit function.
Mr M. Oldersma Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy from 1 August 2018 Mr M. Ewell to 31 July 2018 Mr C. V. Geoghegan to 9 March 2018 www.
com Stock code: SHI 67 Corporate Governance report Ms C. Taylor Remuneration Committee Group Human Resources Director from 1 August 2018 The Remuneration Committee operates under written terms of reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
The Mr D. Walmsley committee comprises only Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Managing Director, SIG Distribution from 5 March 2018 The Chair of the committee attends the AGM to respond to any Mr R. T. Barclay shareholder questions that might be raised on the committees Managing Director, SIG UK & Ireland to 31 March 2018 activities.
The committees report is set out on pages 84 to 105.
Mr P. Dnec Delegated authorities: Managing Director, France to 10 December 2018 Mr A. Wakelin Sets remuneration and incentives for the Executive Directors, Managing Director, SIG Exteriors to 31 August 2018 approves and monitors remuneration and incentive plans for the Group, and assesses and makes recommendations to the Board on the policy of executive remuneration.
Group Tax and Treasury Committee The Tax and Treasury Committee operates under the written Members: treasury policy.
The committee considers liquidity and funding, Ms J. E. Ashdown Chair interest rate risk management, tax risks, foreign exchange risk Ms A. Abt management, counterparty credit risk management and any other Mr I.
B. Duncan current Group tax or treasury issues.
Mr A. C. Lovell from 1 August 2018 Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy from 1 August 2018 Members: Mr M. Ewell to 31 July 2018 Ms V. George Chair Mr C. V. Geoghegan to 9 March 2018 Group Financial Controller from 3 September 2018 Group Executive Committee Mr N. W. Maddock The Executive Committee operates under written terms of reference, Chief Financial Officer details of which are provided on page 66.
The committee addresses operational issues and is responsible for implementing Group Mr P. Mitchell strategy and policies, day-to-day management and monitoring Interim Group Treasurer from 11 May 2018 performance.
The committee met 20 times during 2018.
Mr M. Wilson From 1 January 2019, the Executive Committee meeting structure Group Tax Manager has been revised to improve efficiency in supporting the business Mr R. C. Monro agenda.
The changes will ensure that the core focus of the Company Secretary committee is on reviewing health and safety, governance, strategy, performance and transformation progress: that transformation Mr I. Jackson work-streams are aligned between business units: and that key Group Financial Controller to 3 September 2018 stakeholders are regularly updated on overall Group performance Ms H. Jones and key developments.
Group Treasurer to 20 April 2018 Members: Board effectiveness and performance Mr M. Oldersma Chair Chief Executive Officer evaluation Mr N. W. Maddock The Board reviews its own performance, and that of its committees Chief Financial Officer and directors, annually.
In 2018, an external review of Board effectiveness was undertaken by Duncan Reed of Condign Board Mr P. Alcayd Consulting.
Neither Duncan Reed nor Condign has any other Group Health, Safety & Environment Director from 15 October 2018 connection to the Company.
Mr G. Bruce Managing Director, SIG Exteriors from 24 July 2018 Effectiveness was assessed, and a number of key areas were addressed.
These were alignment of Board and business priorities, Mr A. Doyle Board dynamics including challenge and support, Board assurance Managing Director, SIG Ireland from 4 September 2018 and independence, engagement with strategy, culture, resources Mr R. Hellwig and motivation, Board governance and controls, Boards use of time, Managing Director, SIG Germany from 1 October 2018 operating rhythm and information, shareholder relationships and Mr L. Hemels communications and succession planning.
Managing Director, SIG Air Handling The process was conducted via focused one-to-one interviews with Mr C. Horn the directors, selected senior managers and external advisors, and Group Operations Director attendance at Board and committee meetings.
The results were Mr E. Hutt presented to the Board in January 2019.
Group Chief Information Officer The review fundamentally concluded that this has become a Mr J. Monteiro much more functional and effective Board in the last year, under Managing Director, France from 11 December 2018 the Chairmans leadership, and that it comprises committed, Mr J. Neves experienced and perceptive individuals.
Most of the actions from the Managing Director, SIG Benelux Chairmans last internal review had been addressed, while a number remain work in progress.
Mr M. Szczgiel Managing Director, SIG Poland 68 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE It also concluded that this is a Board which takes seriously its role Annual assessment of the effectiveness of systems of risk both to oversee the control functions of the business but also to management and internal control systems provide a framework of entrepreneurial leadership as the Code During 2018, the Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of enjoins.
In this sense, the tone from the top is good, as a sense the Groups system of risk management and internal control.
This of shared purpose is still evident even where roles, functions and review covered all controls including operational, compliance and risk perspectives differ.
management procedures, as well as financial controls.
The Board will continue to regularly assess the effectiveness of systems of internal The review identified areas for improvement.
communication across the business and the Boards visibility within the business: promoting as close an alignment as possible between To complete the review the Board and Audit Committee requested, business and Board priorities in relation to the use of time and received and reviewed reports from the Group Controls Manager, agenda focus.
It also confirmed the need for ongoing focus on Group Internal Audit, senior management, advisors and the external strategy, vision and culture.
Through the ongoing processes outlined on pages 69 to 70, improvements in risk management and internal controls are The proposed Board priorities for 2019 will therefore be to improve continuously identified with action plans appropriately designed and certain Board processes to support these areas, as well as to communicated.
Progress towards completion of actions is regularly progress work on strategy, vision and culture.
monitored by management and the Board.
Condign made various specific recommendations, and examples The Board considers that the information that it receives is sufficient to taken up by the Board as agreed action points include the following: enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management 1.
Greater discipline and rigour is required around the preparation internal controls systems in accordance with the internal control and maintenance of the Boards planning calendar, including guidance for directors on the Code issued by the FRC.
topics to be discussed: attendance and presentations by Key elements of ongoing process for risk management management below Executive Director level: attendance by and internal control third parties: Board site visits: and training events.
The planning The key elements of the existing systems for risk management and calendar should be regularly updated and used as a means to internal control, in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk ensure the Board is getting the assurance required from others Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business within the organisation and outside and that the Non-Executive Reporting September 2014, are as follows: Directors have a good feel for the business and hear the views of employees.
Greater clarity around the Groups strategic planning process A risk management framework is in place to outline the core is required.
The current work to develop a purpose, vision, and responsibilities of each function and the processes that should be strategy for individual businesses both in the UK and Europe in place to effectively manage risk in the Group.
needs to be brought to a conclusion, as does the work on the The risk management process is cascaded throughout the Group's longer term Corporate strategy, together with a list of Group, with operating company leadership teams responsible for strategic agenda issues to be incorporated into the Board planning maintaining their own risk registers.
process at the appropriate time.
The Board maintains an overall Group risk register, the content During the year the Board received specific training in connection of which is determined and assessed through regular discussions with the new Corporate Governance Code with a focus on their between senior management, the Group Board and the Audit Section 172 Directors Duties and stakeholder considerations.
This is also formally reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Directors attend training courses and seminars on various subjects Committee the Board.
that they identify as important to maintain their knowledge and understanding or areas where training would increase the The Group risk register contains the principal risks faced by the knowledge and effectiveness of the director.
In addition, the NonGroup and assesses the potential impact and likelihood at both a Executive Directors are required to carry out a number of visits to gross level and net level.
It outlines the current controls in place the Groups operating sites and are required to report back to the to mitigate the risk and any further actions required to bring the Board on their findings and observations.
This is in addition to the risk to an acceptable level.
These principal risks are outlined in the offsite Board meetings held in the Groups operating businesses.
Strategic report on pages 46 to 47.
Further training and site visits are programmed for 2019.
New and emerging risks are identified through horizon scanning, Peer-to-peer director evaluation was included in the review process.
review of relevant media publications and risk workshops held Using the feedback gathered to support the usual annual process with management teams.
and inputs to it, the Chairman has reviewed the performance of Internal control individual directors.
The Senior Independent Director, following a meeting with the Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman, A defined organisation structure with levels of approval governed and obtaining feedback from the Executive Directors, reviewed the by the Group Delegation of Authority policy.
Formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria.
Risk management and internal control The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of Clear responsibilities on the part of financial management for the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role of maintenance of good financial controls and the production and management to implement the Boards policies on risk and control review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management through the design and operation of appropriate internal control information.
A comprehensive system of financial reporting which includes an Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the annual process for operating company budgets to be approved by risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and can therefore the CEO.
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material In-depth reviews of operating company performance are misstatement or loss.
com Stock code: SHI 69 Corporate Governance report completed with the CEO and CFO attending local management employees used this system to raise concerns about a number meetings to discuss any significant changes and adverse variances of separate issues, all of which were appropriately responded to.
In response to the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, future reporting on whistleblowing will be to the Board.
Monthly provision to management and the Board of relevant, accurate and timely information, including relevant key Open culture performance indicators.
The Board considers that the Group operates a risk-aware culture with an open style of communication.
This facilitates the early Regular monthly reports at each Board meeting from the CEO identification of problems and issues, so that appropriate action is and CFO.
taken quickly to minimise any impact on the business.
Regular cash and treasury reporting to the CFO and periodic Overall assessment reporting to the Board on the Groups tax and treasury position.
Notwithstanding the prior period restatements, and the need for Continued improvement and embedding of the key controls further improvements to the control environment during 2019, framework which includes a number of control areas against which as set out in this Report, the systems and processes outlined in operating companies are required to self-certify on a quarterly this corporate governance report give reasonable assurance that basis.
This self-certification process is administered by Group the structure of risk management and internal control systems Finance with a summary reported to the Audit Committee.
in operation is appropriate to the Groups situation.
The Board Development of control improvement plans which are, in part, an confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating output of the key controls framework self-certification process and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and that this and focus on continuous improvement of an operating companys has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of internal control environment.
The list of actions included in the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
control improvement plans should be discussed regularly at operating company management meetings.
Relations with shareholders The Group Board recognises the importance of communicating with Any significant issues or control weaknesses identified are its shareholders, including its employee shareholders, to ensure reported to the Audit Committee.
Where appropriate, issues are that its strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved also included in reports to the Executive Committee and principally through the Annual Report and Accounts and the AGM.
The Groups annual and interim results, as well as all announcements A structured and approved programme of audits is undertaken issued to the London Stock Exchange, are published on the by Group internal audit, which includes regular visits to and Companys website.
The Company issues regular trading updates interaction with the operating companies across the Group.
The to the market and these, together with copies of the presentations implementation of recommended actions are monitored as part of made to analysts, can also be found on the Companys website.
In addition, a range of other corporate information is available to investors on the Companys website www.
Financial reporting The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are primarily In addition to the general internal controls and risk management responsible for direct investor relations.
The Board is kept informed processes described on pages 69 to 70, the Group also has of investors views through distribution and regular discussion of specific systems and controls to govern the financial reporting analysts and brokers briefings and a summary of investor opinion process and preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, feedback from major shareholders is reported These systems include clear policies and the procedures for to the Board by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and ensuring that the Groups financial reporting processes and the the Chief Financial Officer and discussed at its meetings.
Formal preparation of its Financial Statements comply with all relevant presentations are made to institutional shareholders following the regulatory reporting requirements.
announcement of the Group's annual and interim results.
Informal dialogue and meetings are held with shareholders and potential The policies and procedures are comprehensively detailed in the investors throughout the year.
The Board aims to maintain a Group Finance Manual, which is used by all businesses in the relationship of accessibility and transparency with its shareholders.
During the year, the Chairman and Chair of the Remuneration Financial reporting control requirements are also set out in the Committee engaged with SIGs largest institutional shareholders Group Finance Manual.
to consult on the new directors remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at a General Meeting in November 2018.
Whistleblowing Further detail is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy under which pages 84 to 105. employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
A copy of this The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are available policy is available on the Group's website www.
to discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders if requested, and both are prepared to contact individual shareholders The Group also has in place a confidential hotline which is available should any specific areas of concern or enquiry be raised.
to all of the Groups employees and provides a facility for them to bring matters to managements attention on a confidential basis.
The Throughout the year, the Company responds to correspondence hotline is provided by an independent third party.
During 2018 these received from shareholders on a wide range of issues and also systems were operational throughout the Group.
A full investigation participates in a number of surveys and questionnaires submitted is carried out on all matters raised and a report is prepared for by a variety of investor research bodies.
Although the other Nonfeedback to the complainant.
Executive Directors are not at present asked to meet the Companys shareholders, they regularly review the presentations of the annual The Company Secretary is required to report to the Audit Committee and interim results.
semi-annually on the integrity of these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
During 2018 Group, 70 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for shareholders with the option of withholding their vote on a dialogue with private shareholders and all shareholders are invited resolution if they so wish.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, to attend.
All directors attend the AGM and are available to answer unless a poll is validly called and, after each such vote, the number any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
of proxy votes received for or against the resolution together with the number of abstentions is announced.
The Company Secretary The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working ensures that votes are properly received and recorded.
Details of days before the meeting.
The Company provides a facility for the proxies lodged on all resolutions are published on the Group's shareholders to vote electronically and the Form of Proxy provides website immediately after the AGM.
Substantial shareholdings At the date of approval of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, the Company had received notification of the following shareholdings in excess of 3% of its issued share capital pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority as at 31 December 2018 and 7 March 2019: Interests disclosed to the Company as at Interests disclosed to 31 December the Company as at Shareholder 2018 % 7 March 2019 % Investec Asset Management 58,891,526 9.96% 58,891,526 9.96% IKO Enterprises Limited 40,539,710 6.85% 40,539,710 6.85% 29,955,004 5.06% Below notifiable n a FIL Limited threshold Tameside MBC re Greater Manchester Pension Fund 29,241,877 5.06% 29,241,877 5.06% Templeton Investment Counsel LLP 29,358,556 4.96% 29,358,556 4.96% Blackrock 29,358,556 4.94% 29,358,556 4.94% Artemis Investment Management LLP 28,820,324 4.87% 28,820,324 4.87% Massachusetts Financial Services Company 26,799,365 4.53% 26,799,365 4.53% Coltrane Asset Management 23,890,830 4.03% 51,525,026 8.71% Schroder Investment Management Limited 23,005,522 3.89% 23,005,522 3.89% Norges Bank 19,786,142 3.34% 19,786,142 3.34% Committee to fix its remuneration.
The remuneration of the external Statement of the directors on the auditor for the year ended 31 December 2018 is fully disclosed in disclosure of information to the external Note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 134. auditor Publication of annual report and The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors Report confirm that: notice of AGM So far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit Shareholders are to note that the SIG plc Annual Report 2018 information of which the Companys external auditor is unaware: together with the Notice convening the AGM have been published and on the Group's website www.
If shareholders have elected to receive shareholder correspondence in hard copy, then Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken the Annual Report and Notice convening the AGM will be distributed as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit to them.
information and to establish that the Companys external auditor is aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance The Notice convening the AGM, which is to be held at the offices with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2EG at 12 noon on Wednesday 8 May 2019, together Going concern with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights, will be circulated The going concern statement can be found on page 40 of the to all shareholders that have elected to receive shareholder Strategic report.
correspondence in hard copy at least 20 working days before Viability statement the meeting along with this report.
The document will also be available on the SIG plc website www.
All shareholders The viability statement can be found on pages 39 to 40 of the are invited to the Companys AGM, at which they will have the Strategic report.
opportunity to put questions to the Board.
Independent external auditor On the recommendation of the Audit Committee see page 80, in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions are to be proposed at the AGM for the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as external auditor of the Company who have filled the casual vacancy since 4 July 2018 and to authorise the Audit www.
com Stock code: SHI 71 Corporate Governance report Directors report disclosures Directors and officers liability insurance and indemnities Principal activity and business review The Company purchases liability insurance cover for directors and The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialist materials officers of the Company and its subsidiaries which gives appropriate to trade customers in the construction sector across Europe.
The cover for any legal action brought against them.
The Company has main markets supplied are insulation and interiors, roofing and also provided an indemnity which was in force during the financial exteriors and air handling solutions.
year for its directors to the extent permitted by the law in respect of The Chairmans statement and Strategic report on pages 2 to 57 liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not contain a review of these activities and comment on the future provide any coverage to the extent that a director is proved to have outlook and developments.
The financial risk management acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
objectives, policies and key performance indicators of the Group are No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions and no qualifying also set out in the Strategic report.
pension scheme indemnity provisions have been made either during As at the date of this report, there have been no important events the year or by the date of approval of this directors report.
affecting the business of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
Financial instruments Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and Political donations policies on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks arising from It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no financial instruments is set out on pages 38 to 39 and in Note 19 to political donations were made during the year 2017: nil.
the Financial Statements on pages 153 to 160.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to corporate governance Acquisitions and disposals are disclosed on pages 48 to 49.
Details of acquisitions made and businesses identified for sale or closure are covered in Note 11 on pages 143 to 145 and Note 14 on Group results and dividends page 149 of the Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 is shown on page 108.
The movement in Group Group companies reserves during the year is shown on page 111 in the Consolidated A full list of Group companies and their registered office addresses Statement of Changes in Equity.
Segmental information is set out in is disclosed on pages 206 to 207.
Note 1 to the Financial Statements on pages 126 to 131.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.50p per share Share capital 2017: 2.50p which, together with the interim dividend of 1.25p per The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into share 2017: 1.25p, makes a total for the year ended 31 December ordinary shares of 10p each.
Payment of the final dividend, if had a called up share capital of 591,556,982 ordinary shares of 10p approved at the AGM, will be made on 5 July 2019 to shareholders each 2017: 591,548,235. registered at the close of business on 7 June 2019.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, options were exercised Greenhouse gases pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 8,747 new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary shares Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are detailed on have been allotted under these schemes since the end of the pages 55 to 56 of the corporate responsibility report.
financial year to the date of this Report.
Details of outstanding options under the Groups employee and executive schemes are Employees set out in Note 9 on pages 139 to 141 which also contains details of Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees including options granted over unissued share capital.
disabled employees are disclosed in the corporate responsibility report on pages 48 to 52.
Rights attaching to shares The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the Post balance sheet events Companys articles of association.
The articles of association may Details of post balance sheet events are included on page 113 of the be changed by special resolution of the Company.
whose name appears on the Companys register of members can choose whether his shares are evidenced by share certificates ie Related party transactions in certificated form or held in electronic ie uncertificated form in Except as disclosed in Note 30 to the Financial Statements on page CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
173 and except for directors service contracts, the Company did not have any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may attend any with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the periods in general meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, every which any director is or was materially interested.
shareholder or his representative who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every shareholder or his representative who is present has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which they are the registered shareholder.
72 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided Transfer of shares on a show of hands unless before or on the declaration of the The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share result of a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded by the which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent Chairman of the meeting, or by at least five shareholders or their dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and representatives present in person and having the right to vote, or by proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a any shareholders or their representatives present in person having certificated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly at least 10% of the total voting rights of all shareholders, or by any stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or shareholders or their representatives present in person holding any other place decided by the Board accompanied by a certificate ordinary shares in which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the least one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii resolution but the amount of such dividends cannot exceed the is in favour of not more than four transferees.
amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim Transfer of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated and for the periods they decide provided the distributable profits of share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of the Company justify such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by CREST.
an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, offer any shareholder the right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited Variation of rights as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the varied or revoked either: Company, unless the directors decide otherwise.
i. with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction nominal value of the issued shares of the class: or of an extraordinary resolution passed by the shareholders, divide ii.
with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the Company a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of and he she can value any assets and determine how the division the class.
shall be carried out as between the members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part The Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to them.
of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the If there is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing members.
No shareholders can be compelled to accept any asset shares, rights attaching to new shares can take priority over the which would give them a liability.
rights of existing shares, or the new shares and the existing shares are deemed to be varied unless the rights expressly allow it by a Voting at general meetings reduction of paid up capital, or if another share of that same class is issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend, or in respect of Any Form of Proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in relation capital or more favourable voting rights.
to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before Election and re-election of directors the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act, remove any The Board may determine that the shareholder is not entitled director before the expiration of his her period of office in certain to exercise any right conferred by being a shareholder if he she circumstances set out in the Companys articles.
or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a Notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon The Board may, from time to time, appoint one or more directors public companies the power to require information with respect to as managing director or to fulfil any other executive function within interests in their voting shares and he she or any interested person the Company for such term, remuneration and other conditions failed to supply the Company with the information requested within of appointment as it may determine, and it may revoke such 14 days after delivery of that Notice.
The Board may also decide that appointment subject to the provisions of the Companies Act.
no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant Section 793 Notice, whichever is the earlier.
com Stock code: SHI 73 Corporate Governance report Agreements with employees and significant Fair, balanced and understandable agreements contracts of significance The directors have a responsibility for preparing the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and for making certain confirmations There are no agreements between the Company and its directors concerning it.
In accordance with C. 1.1 of the Code, the Board has or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or reviewed the contents of this years Annual Report and Accounts and employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or it considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and of control of the Company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes performance, business model and strategy.
More information can be repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit found in the Audit Committee report on page 80. rating of the Company.
Bank consent is required for any major acquisition or disposal of assets.
Cautionary statement The cautionary statement can be found on page 41 of the Fixed assets Strategic report.
In the opinion of the directors, there is no material difference between the book value and the current open market value of the Content of Directors report Groups interests in land and buildings.
The Corporate governance report including the Board biographies, which can be found on pages 60 to 74, the Audit Committee report CREST on pages 76 to 80, the Nominations Committee report on pages 81 The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system to 83, and the Directors responsibility statement on page 106 are for stocks and shares.
incorporated by reference and form part of this Directors report.
The Board has prepared a Strategic report including the Chief 2019 interim report Executive Officers statement which provides an overview of the Current regulations permit the Company not to send hard copies development and performance of the Companys business in the of its interim reports to shareholders and therefore the Company year ended 31 December 2018 and its position at the end of the intends to publish its interim report only on its website at year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of www.
The Sustainability report forms part of the Strategic report.
Acquisition by the Company of its own For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, the required ordinary shares content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic Shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company of report and this Directors report, including the sections of the Annual 59,154,823 of its own shares existed at the end of the year.
The Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
Company has made no purchases of its own ordinary shares pursuant to this authority.
The Company will seek to renew this For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be authority at the 2019 AGM.
4R can be found in the following locations: Authority to allot ordinary shares Shareholders authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 39,436,549 existed at the end of the year.
The Company has not issued any ordinary shares pursuant to this authority.
The Company will seek to renew this authority at the 2019 AGM.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, options were exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 8,747 new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this report.
Details of outstanding options under the Groups employee and executive schemes are set out in Note 9 on pages 139 to 141 which also contains details of options granted over unissued share capital.
74 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Section Topic Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 3 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors remuneration report, pages 84 to 105 4 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable 5 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 6 Non preemptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 7 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 8 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 9 Contracts of significance Not applicable 10 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 11 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 13 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable SIG has been mindful of the best practice guidance published by Defra and other bodies in relation to environmental, community and social performance indicators when drafting the Strategic report.
The Board has also considered social, environmental and ethical risks, in line with the best practice recommendations of the Association of British Insurers.
Management, led by the Chief Executive Officer, has responsibility for identifying and managing such risks, which are discussed extensively in this Annual Report and Accounts.
All the information cross-referenced is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
Approval of the Directors report The Directors report set out on pages 60 to 106 was approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by the Company Secretary, Richard Monro.
Richard Monro Company Secretary 7 March 2019 www.
