Audit Committee report strengthening the control environment and culture of the Group but improvements must continue, and this will be a key focus in 2019.
In particular, the Committee has worked to ensure that: Inconsistencies in the application of cash cut-off procedures and the treatment of debt-like items were identified and the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 was appropriately restated.
Controls in areas of particular weakness have been significantly strengthened.
Controls over supplier rebates within each operating company have been a key area of focus.
Intradepartment integrity meetings are now held in order to maintain robustness in the recognition of supplier rebates, and tools have been implemented to support their tracking.
Investment in talent is made within the business to enable adequate focus to be placed on controls.
In particular, the Group Risk & Internal Audit function has been strengthened through the recruitment of experienced auditors and targeted use of a co-source arrangement with KPMG for subject specialist input.
The approach to planning has been revised and audits are now more clearly aligned to risks identified on the Group risk register.
A new tracking tool has been introduced to ensure that actions to address control weaknesses are completed.
The Group risk and internal audit function reports regularly to the Board and to the Audit Committee.
The control environment has been evaluated and financial Progress has been reporting control weaknesses have been identified and remedied.
With the assistance of KPMG and BDO, the business has worked made this year in to identify and remedy a number of material financial reporting control weaknesses and standardise financial reporting processes.
The business employs designated internal resource focused on strengthening the improving and monitoring the effectiveness of financial controls.
During the year, a key controls framework was introduced, control environment enabling controls to be monitored through a system of quarterly self-certification.
Going forward, the key controls framework will be audited by the Group internal audit function on a two year cyclical and culture of cycle.
the Group but Priorities for the Committee in 2019 will initially focus on the control observations highlighted by the external auditor, in particular the weaknesses in the UK balance sheet reconciliation process.
Priorities improvements must will also include further standardisation of financial reporting procedures of the business, the provision of improved guidance continue.
around the reporting of accounting judgements, and the extension of controls improvement into smaller operating units and branches.
Ian Duncan Chair of the Audit Committee Although going concern is a matter for the whole Board see page 40, a review is made by the Audit Committee of the Groups headroom under its covenants and undrawn facilities in relation to Dear Shareholder, the Groups financial forecasts and sensitivity analyses.
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the Following the vote against the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as year ended 31 December 2018, on behalf of the Board.
our external auditor at the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Audit Committee carried out an audit tender process, in accordance with The Audit Committee provides effective oversight and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The Group announced governance over the financial integrity of the Groups the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as its external auditor on 4 financial reporting to ensure that the interests of the July 2018 with immediate effect.
Further detail on the audit tender Companys shareholders are protected at all times.
It process is provided on page 78. assesses the quality of the internal and external audit processes and ensures that the risks which our businesses The Company has complied during the financial year ended 31 face are being effectively managed.
December 2018 with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of The composition of the Audit Committee meets with the Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code July Order 2014 that are applicable to it.
"2018 ""the 2018 Code"" but, in line with good practice, membership is reviewed annually."
Ian Duncan As expected, a significant area of focus of the Committee Chair of the Audit Committee this year has been on the Groups internal control 7 March 2019 environment.
Progress has been made this year in 76 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Purpose and aim Audit Committee structure The purpose of the Committee is to make recommendations on The Committee operates under terms of reference which can be the reporting, control, risk management and compliance aspects of found on the Companys website www.
They are the Directors and Groups responsibilities, providing independent reviewed annually by the Committee and changes are recommended monitoring, guidance and challenge to executive management in to the Board for approval.
The Committee has in its terms of reference the power to engage Through this process the Committees aim is to ensure high outside advisors and to obtain its own independent external advice standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, an appropriate at the Companys expense, should it be deemed necessary.
During control environment, a robust risk management framework and 2018 the Committee engaged the services of BDO LLP to provide effective compliance monitoring.
The Committee believes that advice on the adequacy of the Groups internal controls environment, excellence in these areas enhances the effectiveness and reduces to supplement services provided by the external auditor and by the risks of the business.
KPMG LLP, who support the Groups internal audit function.
As part of corporate governance the Committee reviews its own Key responsibilities performance annually and considers where improvements can be The accounting principles, practices and policies applied in, and made.
The Committee's performance was reviewed in January 2019 the integrity of, the Groups Financial Statements.
as part of the external review of Board and Committee effectiveness.
The adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting environment.
of the Board on the key issues covered by the Committee, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is The effectiveness of whistleblowing procedures.
needed, and makes recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
Audit Committee evaluation The appointment, independence, effectiveness and remuneration As required, the Committee's activities and effectiveness were of the Groups external auditor, including the policy on non-audit evaluated as part of the overall external Board evaluation as set out services.
Based on this evaluation, it was concluded that The supervision of any tender process for the Groups internal and the Committee acted in accordance with its terms of reference and external auditor.
carried out its responsibilities effectively.
External financial reporting and associated announcements.
The Groups risk management processes and performance.
The Groups compliance with the audit related provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Audit Committee membership As at 31 December 2018, the Committee comprised the five independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Chair of the Committee Members Mr I.
"B. Duncan Ms A. Abt Ms J. E. Ashdown Mr A. C. Lovell Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy The Board considers that each member of the Committee was throughout the year, and remains, independent within the definition set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 ""the Code""."
The knowledge and experience of the Committee members means that the Committee as a whole is competent in the sector in which the Company operates.
B. Duncan has recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
com Stock code: SHI 77 Audit Committee report Meetings The Committee meets regularly throughout the year, with six meetings being held during 2018 along with the audit close meeting in early 2019.
Its agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
The Committee addressed the following key agenda items during its six meetings in 2018: 31-Jan-18 06-Mar-18 25-Jun-18 02-Aug-18 14-Sep-18 20-Dec-18 Consider forensic Risk and internal audit update Risk and internal Risk and Internal Review of 2018 Risk and internal reports concerning audit update audit update interim results audit update the historical overstatements of profit and cash Update on risk Review of going concern basis of Update on audit Cyber risk review Goodwill and Change management accounting and viability statement tender process intangible assets management impairment review Review 2018 internal Goodwill and intangible assets Review of the Update on Review of going Internal controls audit plan impairment review Committees interim audit concern basis of update terms of accounting reference Internal control Risk management and internal Review of Review of the Review external review control review whistleblowing external auditors audit plan and non-audit interim work and services policies report and year end planning Review revised Review of 2017 audit process and results Group internal Review non-audit external audit plan controls review services policy Review Audit Committee report Review of the 2017 external auditor report Review of the 2017 Annual Report including fair, balanced and understandable and preliminary results announcement Attendance by individual members of the Committee is disclosed in the table on page 67.
The Committee Chair regularly invites senior company executives to attend meetings of the Committee to discuss or present specific items, and in particular the Chief Financial Officer, Mr N. W. Maddock, attended all six of the meetings in 2018.
The external auditor and the Director of Risk & Internal Audit also attended all six meetings of the Committee in 2018 and has direct access to the Committee Chair.
The Committee also meets with the external auditor and the Director of Risk & Internal Audit without the Executive Directors being present.
The Committee Chairman also meets with the external auditor and the Director of Risk & Internal Audit in advance of Committee meetings.
During the year, the Committee also held one additional unscheduled meeting to discuss the external audit tender.
External audit tender Following the vote against the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Each firm was invited to meet all of the senior team including the Group's external auditor at the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Chairman, Audit Committee Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Audit Committee commenced the process of carrying out an audit Chief Financial Officer as well as the relevant finance teams across tender process in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
The the material operations and at Group.
Site visits were made to the Audit Committee initiated the tender process in May 2018 with an UK, France and Germany.
Access was given to a comprehensive data accelerated timetable to ensure that the new external auditor would room with information to help them gain an understanding of SIG as be appointed as soon as possible.
The Audit Committee appointed an independent project leader and All four firms presented to the Audit Committee including a question an evaluation committee was formed, led by the Chairman of the and answer session.
The Audit Committee later met to evaluate each Audit Committee and comprising the Chief Financial Officer, Director firm using agreed evaluation criteria and to reach its recommendation of Risk & Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller, Group Company to the Board.
Secretary and Finance Director Planning & Performance.
Eight firms At the conclusion of the process the Audit Committee having were approached initially by the selection committee to take on the consulted with management recommended to the Board two role of external auditor and five were shortlisted, including candidates choices for external auditor, with a reasoned preference that Ernst from inside and outside the 'Big Four'.
& Young LLP be appointed as external auditors immediately for The Audit Chairman, Group CFO and independent project lead then the 2018 financial year.
The Board accepted the Audit Committees met separately with the audit partner of each shortlisted firm in recommendation to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as external Auditor advance of issuing an invitation to tender or Request for Proposal RFP.
on a casual vacancy basis and this was announced in July 2018.
Shareholders will be formally asked to approve their appointment at Four firms were subsequently invited to tender for the audit and the May 2019 Annual General Meeting.
each firm was sent the RFP which set out the process, timescales, requirements and evaluation criteria.
The criteria included the The Audit Committee would like to thank all of the firms that experience and knowledge of the lead partner and audit team, participated and specifically Deloitte LLP for their contribution to the the global account management capability, audit approach and Group over the years.
accounting policies, audit coverage and transition.
78 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE The accounting for sale and leaseback transactions has been Financial reporting and significant reassessed and two transactions are now considered to meet the accounting matters criteria for recognition as a finance lease rather than an operating The Committee considered the following financial reporting and key lease.
accounting issues with regard to the Financial Statements: The Group has reassessed its deferred tax asset position and has Recognition and measurement of supplier rebate income recognised a deferred tax asset in relation to losses and fixed The Committee examined the procedures and controls in place to asset timing differences.
ensure that the reporting, reviewing and accounting for supplier The Group previously accounted for early settlement discounts rebate income is properly managed and that supplier rebates are when paid, this has been corrected to recognise at the time of recognised appropriately in the Group Financial Statements.
recognition of the related revenue.
The Committee considered the adequacy of work performed in the The policy for accounting for dilapidations costs has been year to strengthen the way in which the recoverability of supplier corrected to account for the cost of reinstating capital rebates is controlled, including the institution of new internal modifications on inception of the lease instead of accruing costs review processes and the introduction of technology to assist in the over the life of the lease.
This has resulted in an increase to fixed calculation of supplier rebate income.
The Committee supports the assets of 2.6m and to liabilities of 7.9m at 31 December 2017. external auditor in their decision to perform an enhanced review of the valuation of the rebate receivable.
Disclosure of Other items The Committee gave careful consideration to the judgements Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets made in the separate disclosure of Other items.
In particular, the The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets is systematically Committee sought to ensure that the treatment followed consistent reviewed at each mid-year point and at year end.
A consistent principles and that reporting in the Group Financial Statements is methodology is applied to the individual cash generating units, taking suitably clear and understandable.
account of market outlook, risk-adjusted discounted future cash flows, sensitivities, and other factors which may have a bearing on The Committee considered the nature of items included excluded impairment considerations.
Specific focus has been given to Larivire, within from Other items, including the presentation of property SIG Distribution and SIG Exteriors.
The Committee considered the profits and consider that the split between underlying profit and appropriateness of the assumptions including growth rates.
Recognition of cash in transit Recognition and measurement of trade receivables During the year, the Group revised its policy in respect of the Methodologies and judgements applied in establishing provisions for presentation of cash, to ensure that funds in transit are only included trade receivables were examined to ensure consistent application as cash if the Group has control of the funds at the balance sheet and appropriateness to the trading position of the Group.
The Committee considered the adequacy of this revised policy Control deficiency and determined that it was appropriate.
The Committee assessed Regular reports on internal controls issues are presented to and whether, as a result of the change in policy, restatement to prior year discussed at the Audit Committee and a follow up process in place results was required, and determined it was.
The balance sheet as to ensure internal and external audit recommendations are fully at 31 December 2017 as presented in this Annual Report has been implemented.
Ongoing progress and active focus, in particular accordingly restated to take account of this change in policy, with following the interim review, on the internal control process has cash reducing by 13.6m, and a corresponding increase in trade been continued throughout the year.
The Group's external auditor receivables.
communicated, as part of their audit of the Financial Statements Prior year restatements several control deficiencies.
The Board, in reviewing key control Through the transition to Ernst & Young LLP, the Group's accounting observations, can confirm that actions are being undertaken to policies and judgements were reviewed resulting in six restatements remedy the weaknesses identified.
One of the key areas identified to previously reported numbers.
As part of the 2018 year end close, relates to a significant deficiency relating to balance sheet the policy for accounting for future dilapidations costs on property reconciliation process in the UK.
In response, the reconciliation leases has also been reviewed.
Restatements included within this and review policy has been updated and reissued to all finance report comprise: employees to improve quality and reduce errors.
The policy reinforces that balance sheet account owners are to be assigned The inclusion of 'debt like' trade payable balances within the to ensure the completeness and accuracy of reconciliations.
During calculation of net debt at 31 December 2017.
Specifically, 8.0m 2019, further work will be undertaken to implement better controls of supplier balances in SIG France settled through a credit card in this area, establish enhanced levels of review and provide working capital facility have been reclassified as a financial liability additional training where required.
These changes will be supported within this report.
by the internal risk and controls team to ensure improved awareness Our policy of including funds in transit as cash has been revised, and greater accountability.
to ensure that only funds within the control of the Group are Items marked as such are areas where judgement is involved in arriving at the included in cash at the balance sheet date.
This report reflects accounting conclusion.
a restatement to reduce cash and increase trade payables by 13.6m as a consequence.
com Stock code: SHI 79 Audit Committee report 70% of the average audit fees paid to the Groups external auditor Going concern and longer term viability in the last three consecutive financial years.
The policy, which was The Group is subject to financial covenants related to its committed reviewed at the December 2018 meeting and can be viewed on the bank facilities and private placement notes as set out on page Companys website www.
com, defines the types of services 39.
The Group had net debt of 189.4m at 31 December 2018 falling under each category and sets out the criteria to be met and and reported a headline financial leverage of 1.7x for the period the internal approvals required prior to the commencement of any against the covenant maximum of 3.0x.
The Committee reviewed auditor-authorised services.
In all cases, any instruction must be the Groups cash flow, net debt and leverage forecast and note that pre-approved by the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee there is sufficient headroom forecast against the Groups financial before the external auditors are engaged.
The external auditor covenants throughout the viability period.
The assessment has cannot be engaged to perform any assignment where the output placed additional focus on the covenant test points of 30 June is then subject to their review as external auditor.
The Committee with particular reference to the working capital seasonality of the regularly reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external business which would ordinarily see leverage rise at the half year auditor.
The policy and the external auditors fees are reviewed and and 31 December.
The Committee has also reviewed the Groups set annually by the Committee and are approved by the Board.
potential mitigating actions to reduce leverage in the short term and consider these to be achievable and commercially viable.
The The total fees payable by the Group to its external auditor for nonCommittee is satisfied that the assumptions taken are appropriate.
audit services in 2018 were 0.4m, primarily the Interim Review 2017: 0.1m.
The total fees payable to them for audit services in Corporate culture respect of the same period were 1.6m 2017: 1.6m.
The ratio of The Committee considered measures undertaken to transform the audit to non-audit fee was 4:1.
Details of each non-audit service and culture of the business in the year, launched partly in response to reasons for using the Groups external auditor are provided in Note the accounting irregularities that were identified in January 2018.
4 to the Financial Statements on page 134.
The Committee noted two changes in particular: firstly, significant A full breakdown of external auditor fees are disclosed in Note 4 to strengthening of the senior leadership team, and secondly, through the Financial Statements on page 134. careful management, wider reorganisation to remove historic working silos and hierarchy.
The Committee is reassured by the The external auditor reports to the Committee each year on positive changes that have been made to date, but is also mindful the actions taken to comply with professional and regulatory that cultural change will inevitably take time to embed.
requirements and best practice designed to ensure its independence, including the rotation of key members of the Oversight of internal audit external audit team.
Ernst & Young LLP has formally confirmed its The internal audit function provides independent assurance to senior independence to the Board in respect of the period covered by management and the Board on the adequacy and effectiveness these Financial Statements.
of SIGs risk management framework.
Internal audit forms an independent and objective assessment as to whether risks have Fair, balanced and understandable been adequately identified, adequate internal controls are in place The Committee has reviewed the contents of this years Annual to manage those risks, and those controls are working effectively.
Report and Accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, the The capability of the internal audit function was improved in the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and year through the appointment of additional, appropriately qualified understandable and provides the necessary information to enable resource.
KPMG LLP who were appointed on 1 January 2014 as an shareholders to assess the position and performance, strategy and outsourced internal audit function, continue to provide additional business model of the Company.
co-sourced support to the Group to cover specialised areas.
In reaching this conclusion the Committee has considered the The results of all assignments have been reported to the Audit following: Committee during the year.
Areas of weakness that were identified The preparation of the Annual Report is a collaborative process during the year prompted a detailed action plan and a follow-up between Finance, Legal, Human Resources and Communications audit check to establish that actions had been completed.
functions within SIG, ensuring the appropriate professional input Oversight of external auditor to each section.
External guidance and advice is sought where appropriate.
As mentioned on page 78, during the year the Audit Committee commenced an audit tender process, ultimately resulting in the The coordination and project management is undertaken by a appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditor in July 2018. central team to ensure consistency and completeness of the document.
The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree of independence and objectivity on the part of the Groups external An extensive review process is undertaken, both internally and auditor.
The external auditor reports to the Committee on the through the use of external advisors.
actions taken to comply with both professional and regulatory A final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee members prior to requirements and with best practice designed to ensure its consideration by the Board.
The Group has an agreed policy with regard to the provision of On behalf of the Board audit and non-audit services by the external auditor, which was operated throughout 2018.
The policy is based on the principles Ian Duncan that they should undertake non-audit services only where they are Chair of the Audit Committee the most appropriate and cost-effective provider of the service, and where the provision of non-audit services does not impair, or 7 March 2019 is not perceived to impair, the external auditors independence and objectivity.
It categorises such services as auditor-permitted services, auditor-excluded services and auditor-authorised services.
The fees permissible for non-audit services should not exceed 80 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE
