Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Audit Committee Report Meetings The Committee has regular scheduled meetings and holds additional meetings as and when required.
Members are expected, where possible, to attend all Committee meetings.
The Committee had four meetings in 2018 and individual attendance is set out in the table over the page.
The Committee meets with the external auditors at least once a year without management present.
Meetings are normally attended by the Board Chairman, Executive Directors, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Financial Controller and the external auditors.
Other senior members of the management team will attend at the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate to the matters under discussion.
Agendas, briefing notes and reports for each Committee meeting JANE LODGE are distributed via a secure electronic Board portal in advance of Chair each meeting and in sufficient time to allow proper consideration oftheir contents.
The core activities of the Committee are documented and Dear Shareholder plannedon an annual basis and a list of matters arising from eachmeeting is maintained and followed up at subsequent I am pleased to present our Audit Committee Report for 2018.
Thisreport describes how the Committee has carried out its meetings.
Full minutes of each meeting are kept by the Company Secretary, detailing the matters considered and decisions taken responsibilities during the year.
The Audit Committee has access to the Company Secretary Composition andexternal auditors for assistance as required and can obtain The Audit Committee is made up of three members: Jane Lodge outside legal or other professional advice at the Companys Chair, Keith Clarke and Noel Harwerth, who are all independent expense, if required.
The Board is satisfied that Jane Lodge possesses the necessary recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code 2018 Committee evaluation toeffectively chair the Committee and, further, that the Committee During the year, the Committee undertook an internal evaluation of as a whole has the skills, expertise, experience and competence its performance in accordance with the provisions of the Code and relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
More its terms of reference.
The Company Secretary, on behalf of the information can be found in the Directors biographies on pages Chair, circulated a comprehensive questionnaire to members and 44 to 45. attendees of the Committee using the electronic Board portal covering all issues related to the functioning of the Committee.
Theresponses were consolidated and anonymised and common Responsibilities themes identified in order for the Committee to determine key The main role of the Audit Committee includes: actions and next steps for improving Committee effectiveness monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements, andperformance.
including reviewing its annual and half-year financial statements The results of the 2018 internal evaluation show that overall the and accounting policies: Committee is operating effectively.
Following the review, it was reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit, internal agreed that during 2019, the mining and agricultural industry controls, risk management, whistleblowing and fraud systems teamsof  LLP would be asked to present inplace across the Group: and on the industry trends and issues: management would be asked overseeing the relationship with the Companys external auditors, togive a risk management and internal control framework update  LLP.
presentation: and  LLP would give the Committee a corporate governance and reporting update.
The terms of reference for the Committee are set out in detail on the Companys website, siriusminerals.
These terms are reviewed on an annual basis to ensure best practice.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 53 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Committee attendance in 2018 Number of meetings attended % of meetings maximum attended Committee members possible meetings Jane Lodge 4 4 100% Noel Harwerth 4 4 100% Keith Clarke 4 4 100% COMMITTEE ACTIVITY IN 2018 During the year the Committee: reviewed the proposed accounting treatment of the Groups received reports from the internal audit function on investments in CIBRA and OFD: theprocure-to-pay process: the employee expenses policy: the process for managing site instructions andvariation received an update on accounting treatment for the Royalty orders and the chain of events following an incident at the Financing Agreement: Wilton site where a worker sustained a serious injury during reviewed the Groups risk register: piling works: reviewed and recommended to the Board the approval of assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal the 2017 preliminary results announcement: the 2017 Annual controlenvironment: Report: the 2018 half-year results announcement and the reviewed the planning of the 2018 Annual Report, including significant financial reporting judgements: consideration of the skeleton financial statements and draft considered and recommended to the Board the approval going concern and viability statements: ofletters of representation issued to the external auditors: conducted and reviewed the results of the 2018 performance reviewed and approved the process for the review of the evaluation of the Committee and agreed actions for 2019: effectiveness of internal controls: reviewed the Committees terms of reference and considered the schedule of non-audit services provided recommended changes to the Board: bythe external auditors: reviewed and approved the Committees report for inclusion reviewed and approved changes to the audit non-audit in the 2017 Annual Report: feespolicy: received reports from the Companys external auditors, considered and approved the audit approach and scope of  LLP: the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors and reviewed the results from the benchmarking exercise of the associated fees: Companys 2017 Annual Report undertaken by approved the process for the Committees 2018 annual  LLP: and performance evaluation: received updates on corporate governance and accounting reviewed the Groups Speak Up arrangements and matters developments from  LLP.
raised under the Speak Up service: assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controlenvironment: 54 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Progress of actions from 2017 Committee evaluation Risk management and internal control Details of the Groups internal controls and risk management In addition to considering the results of this years evaluation, the Committee reviewed the progress against the actions identified framework are more fully set out on page 36 of the Strategic Report.
from last years evaluation with the outcomes set out in the The Committee, on behalf of the Board, carried out a review of following table: theeffectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal 2017 action point Outcome controls during the year.
This included financial, operational and compliance controls and emerging risks.
This effectiveness review Incorporation of a programme The Committee received an considered the design of controls associated with key risks and of training andpresentations accounting update at its October theevidence as totheir proper operation throughout the year.
into the Committee meeting 2018 Committee meeting.
A further Thereview did not identify any significant failing or weaknesses schedule at appropriate times, programme has been developed inthe system of internal control and risk management.
including updates on corporate for 2019. governance and accounting The Committee has also considered the confidential reporting developments by andSpeak Up procedures that the Group has in place and  LLP issatisfied with these procedures.
and subject matter deep dives.
 LLP The results of the benchmarking Internal audit to carry out a benchmarking exercise were presented to As noted in the Committees report in the 2017 Annual Report, exercise of the Companys theCommittee meeting in given the level of construction activity increasing on the Project 2017 Annual Report.
October 2018. in2018, the Committee approved managements proposal at the December 2017 Committee meeting to implement an outsourced The length of Committee Committee meetings have been internal audit function for the Group in 2018.
Given the stage of the meetings to be increased to extended by one hour to allow for Companys development, it was agreed that a small practitioner greater in-depth discussion on allow sufficient time for the should be engaged rather than a larger team from an accountancy agenda and papers to be certain topics.
Management engaged with a number of Yorkshireconsidered.
based providers with experience of providing the relevant services More Committee meetings One Committee meeting was held to FTSE-listed organisations and these advisers were short-listed held in person rather than in person in 2018.
The Committee to two companies, both of which came highly recommended.
will have face-to-face meetings each of these providers, management discussed in some detail whenever possible in 2019. thestage at which the company is at and the value and approach that would be expected from the internal audit provider.
Both companies were requested to present their proposals on the Significant issues in 2018 process they would follow regarding preparation, investigation, The Committee considered a number of matters during the year as communication with process owners and management and described above, the most significant of which are described below.
reporting to the Audit Committee.
Having reviewed the final As a result of the stage 1 financing undertaken in 2016, a number of proposals, management recommended the appointment of the complex financial instruments US$250 million royalty agreement Natural Risk Company as the preferred provider of internal audit with Hancock, a US$50 million equity arrangement with Hancock forthe Group and this was approved by the Committee at its and US$400 million convertible loans were entered into by the February 2018 meeting.
Group with a number of third parties.
In September 2018, the US$250 million royalty agreement with Hancock was drawn down.
Due to the complexity of the accounting in relation to these financial instruments, the Committee received and considered comprehensive update reports from management for the host loanelement of the US$250 million royalty price: the embedded derivative within the US$250 million royalty price: and the accounting for the US$50 million equity investment.
The Committee also took into account the views of the external auditors.
The Committee concluded that the proposed accounting treatment of the financial instruments in the Companys 2018 financial statements was appropriate.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 55 Governance Audit Committee Report continued During the year, the Natural Risk Company was asked by Financial Reporting Councils FRC Guidance on Audit Committees theCommittee to carry out a number of reviews, including a review 2016 and the requirements of the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard of theprocure-to-pay process: the employee expenses policy: 2016.
A schedule of prohibited non-audit services which cannot thefixed asset register: the process for managing site instructions be provided by the external auditors has now been included in the andvariation orders: the chain of events in relation to an incident policy so that it is clear the non-audit services that are and are not atthe Wilton site where a worker sustained a serious injury during permissible.
There were no other substantive changes to the policy.
piling works: and the Companys response and the proposed The approval of the Audit Committee must be obtained before the process that should be followed in theevent of allegations of external auditors are engaged to provide any permitted non-audit fraud, embezzlement, theft or irregular behaviour involving our services, unless the activity is clearly trivial, falls within the employees, contractors or people acting onbehalf of Sirius.
permitted non-audit services and will have a totalvalue of TheCommittee reviewed the results of the completed reviews lessthan5,000.
Control over total non-audit fees is monitored atappropriate Committee meetings and was provided with onaregular basis by the Committee with the intention toremain regularupdates on internal audit findings and agreed actions belowan audit fee to non-audit fee ratio of 1:1.
Committee recognises that there may be times whereit is appropriate toengage the external auditors for additional services which mayresult in the 1:1 ratio being exceeded.
An analysis of Independent auditors fees paidin respect of audit and non-audit services provided by The Committee is responsible for managing the relationship with  LLP for 2018 is set out innote 25 on page the Companys external auditors,  LLP.
Other than the half year review, no non-audit services were  LLP have been the Companys external provided to the Company by  LLP during auditors since October 2012.
The Committee confirms its the year.
compliance for the financial year ending 31 December 2018 with The Committee assesses the quality of the external audit annually and theprovisions ofthe Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies considered the performance of  LLP taking Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender into account the Committees own assessment, feedback from senior Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The finance personnel and views from  LLP on Company last put itsexternal audit contract out to tender in 2012, their performance as detailed in areport of their audit findings at the following which  LLP were appointed as year end, which they took the Committee through at the meeting in theCompanys external auditors.
Under current regulations, the March 2019.
Based on this review, the Committee was satisfied with Company will be required tore-tender the audit no later than in the effectiveness of the audit for the year ended 31 December 2018. respect of the year ending 31December 2022.
The Committee recognises that audit tenders and transitions to new auditors require significant resource.
The Committee considers that subject to their Speak Up arrangements reappointment by shareholders, it is in the best interests of the During the year, the Committee reviewed the arrangements Company to retain  LLP until 2022 to thattheGroup has in place for the workforce to raise concerns in provide stability and continuity but will keep the issue under review confidence.
An externally managed independent phone and web inthe intervening period.
It is therefore the Companys intention to reporting Speak Up service was in place together with a Speak Up tender theaudit nolater than for the year ending 31 December 2022. policy.
The Committee received reports summarising any matters that had been raised if applicable at each meeting.
In accordance with best practice and professional standards, theCompany requires its external auditors to adhere to a rotation As a result of the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, policy whereby the audit engagement partner is rotated after five applicable to the Company from 1 January 2019, the Committee years.
Randal Casson is the current Senior Statutory Auditor having will no longer have responsibility for the Companys Speak Up been appointed for the audit in respect of 31 December 2017.
The arrangements as the oversight of these arrangements will now external auditors are also required to periodically assess whether, beaBoard matter.
As such, from 1 January 2019, the Board will in their professional opinion, they are independent and to share receive reports summarising any material matters that have been those views with the Committee.
raised if applicable at each Board meeting.
In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of the externalauditors, the Committee has a policy regarding the provision of non-audit services by its external auditors to ensure that such services do not impair the independence or objectivity ofthe external auditors.
During the year, the policy was reviewed and updated to reflect the recommendations set out in the Jane Lodge Chair 30 April 2019 56 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018
