Governance Corporate Governance Report The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held LEADERSHIP separately and their responsibilities are clearly documented and Board meetings established and are available on the Companys website, The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties.
In 2018, the Board met ten times during the year.
Individual Director attendance at each Board meeting is set out in the table opposite.
Non-Executive Directors Directors are expected, where possible, to attend all Board Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and scrutinise meetings, relevant Committee meetings, the AGM and any general the performance of management and help develop proposals on meetings.
If a Director is unable to attend a specific Board or strategy.
The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors Committee meeting, he or she still receives all the papers for are available for inspection at each AGM andat the Companys discussion at the meeting and can advise the Board Chairman or registered office during normal business hours.
Committee Chair of their comments in advance of the meeting.
Board meetings are normally attended by the Chief Development Senior Independent Director Officer and the Chief Marketing Officer.
Other senior members of the Noel Harwerth is the Senior Independent Director SID of the management team and external advisers will attend, at the invitation Company, having been appointed on 25 April 2017.
She provides of the Board, and as appropriate to the matters under discussion.
asounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary On 13 September 2018, the Company entered into a side letter for the other Directors, where necessary.
She is available to amending the terms of the Minerals Royalty Deed dated 25 October discuss with shareholders any concerns that cannot be resolved 2018 with Hancock British Holdings Ltd Hancock.
Pursuant to the through normal channels or when such channels would be side letter, Hancock has the right to observe the Companys Board inappropriate.
She also has responsibility for leading the annual meetings through the appointment of up to two observers Board appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
The Board observers are entitled to attend all Board the SID are clearly documented and established and available on meetings and receive copies of all papers that are provided to the Companys website, siriusminerals.
Boardmembers unless there is a conflict of interest as determined by the Chairman of the Board: they are not entitled to attend any Board Committee meetings: have no right to vote on any matters and areonly entitled to speak if invited to do so by the Chairman of The Role of the Board the Board.
Hancock has nominated two Board observers pursuant The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of tothe side letter who signed formal appointment letters with the the Group.
It provides leadership of the Company and direction for Company, detailing theirrights and obligations as Board observers management.
The Board biographies are on pages 44 and 45. and detailed confidentiality provisions, in October 2018.
The Board is responsible for establishing theCompanys strategy, During the year the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors values and purpose and monitoring these are aligned with the alsomet on several occasions without the Executive Directors Groups culture, whilst ensuring the necessary controls and present to allow informal discussions on a variety of issues.
resources are in place for the Group to deliver its objectives and TheNon-Executives met once during the year without the having regard to the views of shareholders and other Chairman to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
The core activities of the Board are documented and planned on The Board has regular scheduled meetings and has adopted a anannual basis and a list of matters arising from each meeting is schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
This maintained and followed up at subsequent meetings.
Full minutes schedule details key aspects of the affairs of the Company which of each Board and Committee meeting are kept by the Company the Board does not delegate and can be found on the Companys Secretary, detailing the matters considered and decisions taken.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board was reviewed and updated during the year as a result of the new 2018 Code, which is applicable to the Company from The Chairman and Chief Executive 1 January 2019.
One such change was that oversight of the Russell Scrimshaw is the Chairman.
He leads the Board and is Groups Speak Up arrangements will now be a Board matter responsible for the effective running of the Board and promoting a and as such, from 1 January 2019, the Board will receive reports culture of openness and debate.
Chris Fraser is the Chief Executive summarising any material matters raised if applicable at each Officer and is responsible for the running of the Groups business Board meeting.
and implementation of the strategy and policies adopted by theBoard.
48 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Board attendance in 2018 Number of meetings attended maximum possible % of meetings Board members meetings attended Russell Scrimshaw Chairman 10 10 100% Chris Fraser Managing Director & CEO 10 10 100% Thomas Staley Finance Director & CFO 10 10 100% Noel Harwerth Senior Independent Director 10 10 100% Keith Clarke Independent Non-Executive Director 10 10 100% Louise Hardy Independent Non-Executive Director 10 10 100% Lord Hutton Independent Non-Executive Director 10 10 100% Jane Lodge Independent Non-Executive Director 10 10 100% Executive Directors evaluation of major and recurring failures within the Group interms of health and safety governance and performance The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups businesses, implementation of its including, but not limited to, those leading to significant legalaction or formal complaints: strategy, policies and budgets and its financial performance.
Strategy Group meetings comprise the Executive Directors and senior external disclosures relating to health and safety: and management and are held bi-monthly todiscuss current issues.
the quality of health and safety management and the appropriateness of methods to create appropriate health Principal Committees of the Board andsafety behaviours and decisions, including for example The Board has delegated certain aspects of its responsibilities performance appraisal indicators.
tofive Committees as shown on page 52 : the Audit Committee, to consider the position of the Group with respect to best the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the practice for health and safety and emerging legal requirements Disclosure Committee and the newly established Health and on health and safety including relevant corporate governance SafetyCommittee.
Each Committee operates within defined terms of reference, to advise the Board, Committees of the Board and Executive whichare reviewed and updated as appropriate on an annual basis management on such matters.
and are available on the Companys website at siriusminerals.
The Committee will meet formally at least twice a year.
However, Each Committee reports its proceedings to the Board verbally and given the Health and Safety Committee was only constituted on through the submission of reports and minutes as appropriate.
13December 2018, there were no formal meetings held during Reports of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees theperiod under review.
are provided on pages 53 to 81, and include information on each The Disclosure Committee comprises Chris Fraser, Thomas Committees membership, duties, attendance at meetings and Staley, Nicholas King General Counsel and Company Secretary work throughout the year.
and Gareth Edmunds External Affairs Director.
Chris Fraser is A Health and Safety Committee was constituted by the Board on theChair of the Committee.
The Committee ensures that the 13December 2018.
The Health and Safety Committee is made up Company is able to make timely and accurate disclosure of all offour members: Chris Fraser, two independent Non-Executive information that is required to be disclosed to the market in Directors Keith Clarke and Louise Hardy and Simon Carter.
The accordance with itslegal and regulatory obligations as a company Chair of the Committee is Keith Clarke.
The main role of the with Officially Listed securities which have been admitted to trading Committee is as follows: on the Main Market.
The creation of the Disclosure Committee is to assist the Board in overseeing: not mandatory but, in ensuring that the Company has in place systems and procedures to enable it to discharge its obligations, health and safety strategy, plans and related risk assessment was considered an appropriate response and one which has been in the context of the overall business strategy: widely adopted by other companies.
The Disclosure Committee scope and focus of policies and action plans prepared to met a number of times during the year as was necessary and support delivery of the health and safety strategy, including appropriate to fulfil its responsibilities.
mitigation of related risks: implementation processes, plans, internal performance andcontrols in relation to health and safety strategy, plans andrisks: Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 49 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Progress of actions from 2017 performance evaluation EFFECTIVENESS In addition to considering the results of this years evaluation, Composition of the Board the Directors reviewed the progress against the actions identified from The Board is comprised of eight Directors, which includes the last years evaluation with the outcomes set out in the following table: Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and five other independent Non-Executive Directors.
2017 action point Outcome A list of individual Directors, their biographies and Committee Design and implementation of a formal A formal Board training memberships as at the date of this report are on pages 44 and45.
training and development programme schedule was developed The Board believes that there is an appropriate balance of skills, for Board members and agreed in 2018 experience, independence and knowledge on the Board.
The Board More opportunities for the Board to Opportunities for the also believes that there is an appropriate balance of Executive and meet informally ahead of scheduled Board to meet informally Non-Executive Directors.
Board meetings before meetings have The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be been put in place independent.
The Non-Executive Directors disclose to the Board their other significant commitments and the procedure adopted by the Company in relation to Directors conflicts of interest is detailed on Training, development and induction of new Directors page 83.
Ongoing professional development is provided to all Directors.
Louise Hardy, Jane Lodge and Noel Harwerth are independent TheBoard is regularly notified of changes to relevant laws andregulations through the Board papers and presentations incharacter and independent in judgement and are therefore independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the Code.
In addition, external seminars, workshops and presentations have been made available to the Directors through Lord Hutton and Keith Clarke hold share options in the Company as detailed on page 71.
These outstanding share options were granted externally run programmes.
in 2012 and 2013 respectively, when the Company was listed on AIM.
In 2018 the Board received presentations from the Companys legal No further grants have been made tothe Companys current Nonadvisers on bribery and corruption legislation anddevelopments, Executive Directors since 2013 andthe Company does not intend the 2018 Code andthe General Data Protection Regulations.
to include share options or  elements in As there have been no new external appointments to the Board the remuneration of theNon-Executive Directors in the future.
duringthe year, a formal induction programme was not delivered Notwithstanding theseshare options, the Board considers Lord during the year.
Hutton and KeithClarke to be independent in character and independent injudgement and therefore considers them to be Site visits independent Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit the various Prior to taking on the role as Chairman, Russell Scrimshaw was Company sites whenever possible throughout the year to see the viewed as independent in character and independent in judgement.
development and progress of the Project and have an opportunity to The Chairmans other significant commitments are detailed on engage with the wider workforce.
During the year, a number of the page 44.
Board and Committee meetings were held in Scarborough to enable the Directors to attend site visits and a number of our Non-Executive 2018 performance evaluation Directors took this opportunity.
In November 2018 the Board undertook an internal evaluation of its performance in accordance with the Code.
The Company Information and support Secretary, on behalf of the Chairman, circulated a comprehensive All Directors have access to the Company Secretary.
It is the questionnaire to Directors using the electronic Board portal covering responsibility of the Company Secretary to ensure that there are good all issues related to the functioning and responsibilities of the Board.
information flows to the Board and its Committees and between the Theresponses were consolidated and anonymised and common Executive team and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company themes identified in order for the Board to determine key actions and Secretary advises the Board on all legal and corporate governance next steps for improving the Boards effectiveness andperformance.
matters and assists the Chairman in ensuring that the Directors have The results of the 2018 internal evaluation were presented to the Board suitably tailored and detailed induction and ongoing professional at its meeting in December 2018 and confirmed that overall the Board development programmes.
The appointment and removal of the was operating effectively.
Following the review, it was agreed that Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as awhole.
more opportunities for site visits would be factored intothe 2019 A fully encrypted electronic Board portal is used to distribute Board schedule of board meetings and opportunities for theBoard to meet and Committee papers and materials in advance of each meeting and second line management would be explored.
in sufficient time to allow for proper consideration of their contents.
It is the intention that, in accordance with the Code, an annualreview There is a process by which Directors may obtain independent legal of the effectiveness of the Board will be facilitated byan independent advice at the Companys expense if they believe it may be required in external adviser in 2020 and every threeyearsthereafter.
the furtherance of their duties.
50 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information ACCOUNTABILITY Directors and external auditors responsibilities The explanation by the Directors of their responsibility for preparingthe Annual Report may be found in the Directors Responsibilities section on page 85 and a statement from the external auditors about their reporting responsibilities may be found in the Independent Auditors Report to the Members of the Company on pages 88 to 93. Business model The basis on which the Company generates or preserves value over the longer term the business model and the strategy for delivering the Companys objectives may be found in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41.
Risk management and internal control The confirmation that the Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity together with a description of those risks and how they are being managed or mitigated, may be found in the Strategic Report on pages 36 to 41.
Fair, balanced and understandable The confirmation of the Directors that, to the best of their knowledge, the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole are a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy appears on page 85.
REMUNERATION The Directors Remuneration Report, including details of theRemuneration Policy and service contracts, is set out onpages61 to 81.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good communications with the Groups stakeholders and ensures thatthe interests of shareholders, customers, employees and the wider community are considered in their decision making.
More information can be found in the Working Responsibly section on pages 30 to 35 and in the 2018 Responsible Business Report, which is available on the Companys website, siriusminerals.
The Board is committed to maintaining open dialogue and good relationships with both institutional and private shareholders.
Throughout the year management engaged regularly with researchanalysts and significant shareholders through meetings, roadshows and site visits.
During the year, a consultation with majorshareholders and proxy advisors regarding the Companys proposed remuneration policy took place to ensure that the policy was appropriate for the UK premium listed company environment prior to its approval by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
The Board receives regular feedback on investor relations activity, along with regular reports of changes in holdings of substantial shareholders and reports on share price movements.
Shareholders are kept informed of the progress oftheGroup through regular corporate communications and materials provided on the Companys website, siriusminerals.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 51 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer The Board RUSSELL SCRIMSHAW CHRIS FRASER Key objective: RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LONG-TERM Key objective: Leadership of Overall performance SUCCESS OF THE COMPANY the Board of the Company AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS HEALTH AND SAFETY DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Jane Lodge Lord Hutton Keith Clarke Keith Clarke Chris Fraser Chair Chair Chair Chair Chair Keith Clarke Jane Lodge Russell Scrimshaw Louise Hardy Thomas Staley Noel Harwerth Louise Hardy Noel Harwerth Chris Fraser Nicholas King Russell Scrimshaw Simon Carter Gareth Edmunds Key Key Key Key Key responsibilities responsibilities responsibilities responsibilities responsibilities Oversight of Review and approve Lead the process Overseeing healthand Ensuring the effectiveness of the remuneration for Board safety strategy, plans Company is able internal controls policy and appointments and related risk tomake timely remuneration of the assessment in the andaccurate Risk management Ensure plans are Executive Directors context of the overall disclosure of review in place for orderly respectively business strategy required information succession to Monitor integrity Recommend and Board and senior Ensure compliance of financial monitor the level management with health and safety statements and structure of responsibilities and Oversee Overseeing the remuneration of commitments development of a relationship with seniormanagement diverse pipeline the external for succession auditors 52 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018
