Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Nominations Committee Report Meetings The Committee has regular scheduled meetings and holds additional meetings as and when required.
Members are expected, where possible, to attend all Committee meetings.
The Committee met three times in 2018 and individual attendance is set out in the table over the page.
At the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate to the matters under discussion, meetings may be attended by the Executive Directors and external advisers.
Agendas, briefing notes and reports for each Committee meeting are distributed via a secure electronic Board portal in advance of each meeting and in sufficient time to allow proper consideration oftheir contents.
The core activities of the Committee are documented and KEITH CLARKE plannedon an annual basis and a list of matters arising from Chair eachmeeting is maintained and followed up at subsequent meetings.
Full minutes of each meeting are kept by the Company Secretary detailing the matters considered and decisions taken bythe Committee.
Dear Shareholder The Nominations Committee has access to the Company Secretary I am pleased to present our Nominations Committee Report for 2018.
This report describes how the Committee has carried out for assistance as required and can obtain other professional advice at the Companys expense, if required.
Composition 2018 Committee evaluation The Nominations Committee comprises Keith Clarke Chair During the year, the Committee undertook an internal evaluation andNoel Harwerth, who are both independent Non-Executive ofits performance in accordance with the provisions of the Code Directors, and Russell Scrimshaw, the Board Chairman.
and its terms of reference.
The Company Secretary, on behalf ofthe Chair, circulated a comprehensive questionnaire to members and attendees of the Committee using the electronic Board portal, Responsibilities covering all issues related to the functioning of the Committee.
The main role of the Committee is to: Theresponses were consolidated and anonymised and common review the structure, size and composition of the Board and themes identified in order for the Committee to determine key toidentify and propose to the Board suitable candidates to actions and next steps for improving Committee effectiveness fillBoard vacancies: andperformance.
keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both executive and non-executive: and assist with the annual performance evaluation process for theBoard and its Committees.
The terms of reference for the Committee are set out in detail onthe Companys website, siriusminerals.
These terms arereviewed on an annual basis to ensure best practice.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 57 Governance Nominations Committee Report continued Committee attendance in 2018 Number of meetings attended maximum % of meetings Committee member possible meetings attended Keith Clarke 3 3 100% Noel Harwerth 3 3 100% Russell Scrimshaw 3 3 100% COMMITTEE ACTIVITY IN 2018 During the year the Committee: reviewed the composition, size and structure of the Board: reviewed and approved the Committees report for inclusion in the 2017 Annual Report: reviewed the time commitment required of the NonExecutive Directors: considered and approved the contingency succession plan: approved the process for the evaluation of its own considered the impact of the new 2018 UK Corporate performance and undertook the performance evaluation: Governance Code for the Committee.
reviewed results of the annual evaluation of the Committee: The results of the 2018 internal evaluation showed that overall the Succession planning Committee is operating effectively.
It was agreed that the future needs During the year, the Committee approved the contingency of the Board and detailed succession planning would be looked at in succession plan detailing replacements for critical business roles more detail in 2019 and the schedule of annual agenda items for the should an unforeseen situation arise.
Committee would be reviewed and developed as appropriate.
The Committee recognised that as the business continues to evolve, there is a need to align the right leadership capabilities tosupport the transition from the current phase of business Progress of actions from 2017 Committee evaluation development and construction into an operating entity.
Anticipating In addition to considering the results of this years evaluation, the the leadership skills, knowledge and behaviours required for the Committee reviewed the progress against the actions identified future of the Group is key and as such the Committee agreed that from last years evaluation with the outcomes set out in the adetailed review should be carried out by management to define following table: the future leadership requirements of the Group and to inform the 2017 action point Outcome identification and development of a diverse leadership succession The Committee to have an The Committee approved the pipeline before developing a longer-term succession and talent increased focus on succession contingency succession plan development plan.
A specific focus will be placed on strengthening planning for the Board and during the year and will the female pipeline to support and reinforce our commitment to a seniormanagement.
continue to look at Board more gender balanced and diverse senior leadership team.
andsenior management In 2019 a review of the tenure of the Non-Executive Directors succession plans in 2019. willbeundertaken and the Committee will consider the Boards Assist in the design of a The Committee reviewed and succession plan in more detail following this review.
programme oftraining for the made recommendations to the Board.
The length of Committee Committee meetings have been meetings would be increased extended by one hour to allow toallow sufficient time for for greater in-depth discussion theagenda and papers to on certain topics.
arrangement will continue going forward.
More Committee meetings One Committee meeting was to be held inperson rather held in person in 2018.
Committee will have face-toface meetings whenever possible in 2019.
58 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information BOARD COMPOSITION STRATEGY GROUP 1 2 5 Non-Executive Chairman Men Executive Directors 5 Women Non-Executive Directors BOARD TENURE DIRECT REPORTS TO THE STRATEGY GROUP Excluding administrative support sta 1 2 years 2 5 3 years 2 5 years 7 years Men 2 8 years 23 1 Women NATIONALITY Board diversity WOMEN 3 MEN 5 1 1 Dual British American 37.
5% 62.5% 4 Dual British Australian Australian 2 British Average age of the board 58 years Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 59 Governance Nominations Committee Report continued Effectiveness and commitment While the Committee agreed that the current composition of the Board was appropriate, it was agreed that the recruitment The Committee reviewed the effectiveness and commitment ofeach of the Non-Executive Directors during the year.
The of afurther Non-Executive Director with commercial agronomy experience andgovernance experience would be considered Committee agreed that all of the Non-Executives Directors werecontributing effectively and devoting sufficient time to afterthe successful completion of stage 2 financing to further enhancethe Boards composition.
theirroles bearing in mind their other offices and interests held.
This enabled the Board to recommend the formal re-election to Gender diversity and other measures of diversity on the Board office of all the Directors at the 2018 AGM.
areillustrated in the charts on page 59 and further measures of diversity are in the People section on page 35 of the Strategic Report.
Diversity While all Board appointments are made on merit to ensure that thebest candidates are appointed for the role, the Committee recognises the importance of diversity and inclusion at Board leveland throughout the Group.
The Committee will ensure that diversity in all of its forms, including age, social, educational andprofessional background, thinking styles, race, gender and Keith Clarke ethnicity is considered when reviewing the skills and experience Chair that the Board, as a whole, requires in order tomaintain and 30 April 2019 enhance its effectiveness.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and monitored the balance and composition of the Board.
The Board comprises two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors, including theChairman, providing an appropriate balance of executive and non-executive positions on the Board.
Female representation on the Board is currently 37.5% which exceeds the recommendation of the Hampton-Alexander Review of 33% by 2020.
The Directors have a broad range of relevant capabilities including strategic, construction, mining, financial, governance and other experience.
The Directors biographies on pages 44 to 45 provide further information about the particular skills, knowledge and experience each Director brings to the Board.
60 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018
