60 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS DOING THINGS THE RIGHT WAY IS A RESPONSIBILITY, NOT A CHOICE Being a responsible business is deeply embedded in how we think, operate and manage our key resources and relationships with all our stakeholders.
WORKING IN THE SMITHS WAY The Smiths Way is how we do things.
OUR APPROACH TO HEALTH AND SAFETY From our shared vision and values that define our culture and our strategy, to our Health and safety is a top priority at RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE operating model, the Smiths Excellence Smiths and underpins the way we per 100 colleagues System SES, its ensuring we do the right operate in every part of our business.
FY2018 0.38 things, in the right way.
We work to create safe and secure FY2017 0.38 workplaces for our people, our SES helps us manage our business, and customers, our suppliers and all FY2016 0.47 our resources and relationships more other stakeholders.
FY2015 0.57 efficiently and sustainably, under our six FY2014 0.50 pillars customer, people, technology, Our safety culture is built around programme, production and supply.
a cross-divisional network of health, safety and environment LOST TIME INCIDENT RATE In this section, we outline how our HSE leaders.
They share ideas per 100 colleagues responsible business focus areas map and best practices, and implement across the six pillars.
However, most FY2018 0.17 initiatives to help improve our safety topics, particularly health, safety and FY2017 0.19 performance.
While HSE management environment HSE and our ethics and FY2016 0.16 systems are used to identify and compliance activities, are applied across FY2015 0.23 prioritise risks, we also encourage more than one pillar.
colleagues to take ownership of FY2014 0.21 safety by sharing feedback and Figures vary from those reported in prior years due to the reclassification of a small number of incidents as suggesting improvements.
Our people recognise our commitment to health and safety.
Safety came out During FY2018, as part of our journey as one of the highest scores in our towards zero harm, we launched most recent My Say colleague survey, several Group-wide initiatives to help when colleagues were asked if they improve our safety performance, agreed with the statement Safety is a including our safety behaviours top priority here.
In our Group-wide programme and forklift safety survey.
safety assessment, administered by Online safety training, hand safety and DuPont Security Solutions, we were safe driving campaigns are planned pleased that colleagues said our safety for FY2019.
culture based on HSE leadership, structure, and processes was continually improving.
To track our progress, we closely monitor our recordable incident rate RIR where incidents require medical attention beyond first aid and lost-time incident rate LTIR where an employee is unable to work the day following an incident per 100 employees, per year across Smiths.
61 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements CUSTOMER We work closely with our customers We apply strict controls around the CREATING CUSTOMER VALUE to deliver innovative products and appointment of distributors and agents We drive value by working closely with value-adding support.
to make sure we know who were our customers all the way from product dealing with.
In FY2018 we enhanced development and delivery, to end-use and At Smiths, our goal is to continuously our distributor and agents due diligence aftermarket support but the creation of enhance the customer experience and processes and implemented an audit customer value starts with understanding increase the value we create for them.
programme to support these efforts.
As part of this process, we ask potential CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT We actively engage with our customers distributors and agents to complete a AND SATISFACTION during concept and design stages of our questionnaire with any issues identified We take time to understand customer New Product Introduction NPI process and remedial actions taken.
In addition, challenges and anticipate their needs, and aim to provide integrated, full lifecycle we use third-party due diligence services partnering to steer innovation and support.
We also introduced a futuring to supplement our own due diligence.
technology development, delivering process to predict how our customers Where the potential risks of bribery are high-quality products, and optimising needs will evolve, as influenced by mega particularly high we use investigators lead times.
trends, macro trends and emerging on the ground to provide enhanced due trends and technologies, which well diligence.
Well continue to monitor Were investing in customer relationship continue in FY2019.
We also continue to management CRM tools and training educate colleagues on this important to improve customer engagement and ANTI-BRIBERY AND issue through our ethics and compliance satisfaction.
Well continue to improve this ANTI-CORRUPTION training programmes.
by focusing on five core areas pricing, We regularly review our policies and deal follow-up, key account management, procedures to reduce our exposure ANTI-TRUST customer complaint management, and to bribery.
We provide regular antiWere committed to competing fairly order-to-delivery management.
bribery training, and have clear policies within the markets we operate in.
We seek to create trusting partnerships and procedures to regulate giving and We provide colleagues whose roles may with our customers.
We are committed to receiving of gifts and hospitality, and how expose them to competition law risks adhering to our Code of Business Ethics we interact with government officials.
with regular training and in FY2018 Code see PEOPLE section Ethics and Our gifts register helps us monitor we refreshed our Anti-trust policy and Support, applying our shared values, and compliance with these policies.
supporting materials, including our trade complying with all applicable international and industry event register.
and local rules and regulations.
We also encourage our customers to contact our Speak Out reporting line if they identify any behaviour thats not in line with our Code.
DEVELOPING INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS COLLABORATING WITH UPS Smiths Detection worked closely with UPS, one of the worlds largest air freight companies, to develop a software interface that transfers CT X-ray image data collected from Detections XCT systems straight to UPSs IBX database.
This helps UPS move massive volumes of image data, speeding up and securing their cargo shipping operations.
The team worked on-site with the UPS software team to modify configurations and software while testing the limits of the new system.
62 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED PEOPLE Our people are our most May 2018 My Say survey REWARD AND RECOGNITION important sources of sustainable Recognising and rewarding our ENGAGEMENT COMMENTS competitive advantage.
colleagues in a fair and open way SCORE helps them feel valued, supported Our people strategy is focused on building and incentivised to succeed.
To stay a learning organisation that attracts, 73 30,000 competitive, and attract and retain the retains, develops, engages and inspires curious and innovative people we need our people to be the best they can be.
June 2017: 71 to drive our growth, its critical that we Employee engagement My Say score, based on an average offer a comprehensive and meaningful CULTURE, ENGAGEMENT score for two questions assessing how happy colleagues are working at Smiths and pride in Smiths.
approach to reward and recognition.
AND COMMUNICATION Our Smiths Way of working helps us Cross-divisional job movement, aligned LEADERSHIP AND LEARNING align our culture, strategy and operating incentive plans, international mobility and We are building a learning organisation model to create an inspiring and clear career paths are all opportunities that supports our people through formal innovative workplace.
Creating a and informal development programmes, shared global job architecture enables to allow them to reach their full potential.
We hold our My Say colleague survey greater movement and development This includes our SES Academy, which twice a year to inform the co-creation opportunities for colleagues to expand will be launched in FY2019 to provide of action plans that are helping to and enhance their careers at Smiths.
progressive training for all colleagues make Smiths a better place to work.
across a range of professional disciplines.
Our May 2018 survey maintained our In FY2018, we also became an accredited We also plan to partner with a leading high response rate of 87%, with more living wage employer in the UK.
academic institution to deliver a portfolio than 30,000 comments.
The results of lean six sigma belted programmes.
reflected improvements in many areas, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION including overall engagement, culture To fuel our growth and meet the evolving Our success is driven by the effectiveness and communications.
needs of our stakeholders, we must draw of our leaders.
We continued our on the innovative thinking of a diverse executive development programme at To further embed our Smiths Way culture, employee population.
UCLA, California, enhancing our senior we held our first ever Smiths Day with leadership capabilities.
In FY2019, well events and celebrations all over the Our aim is a diverse, high-performing implement a new leadership programme world.
We also introduced our colleague workforce that reflects our global to help new and existing managers be smartphone app, Smiths Now, to enhance business and is supported by an inclusive more effective in their roles at Smiths.
engagement, share news across the culture that engages all individuals, and business and encourage peer-tovalues their talents and perspectives.
We also look to fill our talent pipeline by peer communication.
Our recently introduced Diversity and focusing on attracting graduates and early Inclusion D&I Plan aligns with this intent, career talent to Smiths with a focus on Our annual Smiths Excellence Awards, outlining our philosophy, targets and talent who have an interest in science, recognising the highest levels of actions to establish ourselves as a diverse technology, engineering and maths.
achievement across our six SES pillars, as and inclusive company, including our Through our early career initiatives, we well as outstanding contributions to HSE unconscious bias programme and virtual offer graduate and internship roles within and to our communities, continues to be a D&I forums.
CELEBRATING OUR PEOPLE AND SUCCESSES FIRST EVER GLOBAL SMITHS DAY On 7 June 2018, we celebrated our first with colleagues and announce our 2018 ever Smiths Day bringing together Excellence Awards finalists.
colleagues from every division, function Andy said: I found the enthusiasm and region around the world.
shown all over the world really inspiring.
In addition to local celebrations, musical It underlined to me what can be achieved performances, charity events and when motivated colleagues get together, STEM education initiatives, our Chief support each other, and collaborate with Executive, Andy Reynolds Smith hosted real focus.
two global town hall sessions to connect 63 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements Our goal is to increase the diversity of ETHICS AND SUPPORT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT our entire population, including more We want to create a culture where We get involved in local communities to equal representation of women.
This year, colleagues feel safe and respected.
build strong community relationships, a we also published our 2017 and 2018 For us, that means applying our shared sense of pride in our business, and engage UK Gender Pay Gap GPG Reports.
values of integrity, respect, ownership, our people.
We manage community We remain committed to increasing the customer focus and passion to our actions relationships locally, with each business proportion of women in senior roles and and decisions every day.
focusing on markets and communities building a diverse senior management important to them.
We offer Group-level Our values are at the heart of what it team, and our FY2018 report showed that support to charities and organisations means to be Smiths and in FY2018 we overall were already making progress in that show how a donation will increase revised our Code of Business Ethics reducing the gap year-on-year.
wellbeing through improvements to Code to reflect this.
The updated Code Male Female Total education, health, welfare or environment.
provides guidance, including through Board of Directors 9 2 11 real-life scenarios, to help colleagues In FY2018, the Group made charitable Executive understand how to address challenging donations of 88,000.
In addition, Committee 8 3 11 and ethical issues they may encounter colleagues donated and raised money for Senior managers 237 35 272 at work.
In FY2019, well update our a number of good causes, through a range All employees 13,400 8,300 21,700 online ethics training module to reflect of fundraising initiatives.
the best of these initiatives at our annual Andy Reynolds Smith and John Shipsey are included on both the Board of Directors and Executive Committee.
We also launched our Speak Out Includes certain employees who report directly to an Executive Committee member, lead a large campaign in FY2018 to remind and POLITICAL DONATIONS operational site or sales region, or who are a director encourage colleagues to report behaviour of a subsidiary undertaking.
As a Group, we made contributions to thats inconsistent with the Code and our Its our policy to provide equal non-EU political parties totalling $52,000 values through their line manager, HR and employment opportunities.
The political legal teams, or through our confidential select and promote our people on the contributions were made on a bi-partisan reporting Alertline.
basis of their qualifications, skills, aptitude basis in the US, in accordance with US and attitude.
In employment-related state and federal election laws, in order SECURITY decisions, we comply with all applicable to raise awareness and to promote We take vigorous measures to safeguard anti-discrimination requirements in Smiths interests.
colleagues and visitors all over the the relevant jurisdictions.
People with world to protect our business from disabilities are given full consideration security threats.
All locations have site for employment and subsequent training security plans which adhere to Groupincluding retraining, if needed, for wide standards.
people who have become disabled, career development and promotion on In FY2019, well continue to review the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
and identify potential risks and ensure We endeavour to find jobs for those who the protection of our physical and are unable to continue in their existing job intellectual property.
CONTRIBUTING TO OUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING CHILDREN AFFECTED BY CANCER Coming together to support their local community, the team at Flex-Tek partnered with a local ATV all-terrain vehicle camp for children affected by cancer.
Together, they cleaned the camp, landscaped and cleared driving trails, and built a new volleyball court giving the children a chance to spend quality time with friends and family, away from the hospital.
64 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMME Our innovative technology helps Our approach to collaboration, innovation We aim for consistent and flawless make the world safer, healthier and and breakthrough thinking also extends execution across all we do.
In FY2018, Our products and solutions are we signed strategic partnerships with Technology and innovation is the life blood used in some of the most highlyMicrosoft, to accelerate and enable our of Smiths.
It helps fill our future product regulated markets in the world, digital transformation, and Carnegie pipeline, create new business models, requiring compliance with strict Mellon, to advance our additive bring value to our customers and drive regulatory requirements.
PRODUCT LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INNOVATION FRAMEWORK We design new products by thinking We have taken great strides to balance Our Group-wide innovation framework holistically from customer need and our innovation investment profile and 3 i is helping us foster an innovative, problem definition through product establish targets for R&D spend and future-focused and customer-centric conception to introduction, and from vitality, which measures our percentage of culture through a disciplined approach end-use to end of life.
This approach is total revenue derived from new products to innovation, aligned with our strategy collaborative and cross-functional to launched in the last three years.
Its helping us translate our create solutions that delight customers, used to measure vitality give us a holistic expertise and insight into innovative new create value and make the world healthier, view of the organic pipeline, improving products, services and business models safer and more productive.
through our futuring process, already New product introduction resulting in funded proposals, such as INVESTMENT IN R&D Weve developed a standard, flexible New CORSYS, Smiths Detections AI based PERCENTAGE OF SALES Product Introduction NPI process across software platform.
This scalable methodology is To support our ambitions, we opened tailored to market and product, ensuring our first Digital Forge in the San 4.6% investment is proportionate, and helps Francisco Bay area in FY2018, designed maintain our crucial new product FY2017: 4.6% to accelerate our digital projects and innovation pipeline.
The methodology provide a co-innovation space for us, is based on a stage-gate approach our customers and other partners.
with regular internal audits to ensure We also held workshops throughout commercial effectiveness and improve the year to drive innovative thinking, our speed and effectiveness of bringing identify and develop solutions for future new products to market.
problems, and collaborate on forwardthinking technologies.
Our new cross-divisional communities of practice are also helping to connect subject matter experts from across the business through dedicated online forums.
IMAGINING THE FUTURE EXAMINING EMERGING TRENDS AND TECHNOLOGIES Innovative, breakthrough thinking is vital to helping us establish Smiths as one of the worlds leading technology companies.
This year, we held our first Futuring workshop, bringing together colleagues from across the business to examine current and emerging trends and technologies, at a market and global level.
Together, they outlined future problem statements, and generated ideas and solutions to these problems that are now being developed into reality.
65 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements PRODUCTION Product cyber security We constantly drive for enhanced LEAN AND CONTINUOUS production efficiency, effectiveness Our products are used in missionIMPROVEMENT and quality.
critical applications in highly-regulated We incorporate continuous improvement industries.
As our focus on digital and lean methodology to improve safety, Were committed to ensuring that every transformation increases were quality, cycle time, delivery performance product is manufactured efficiently, to committed to ensuring the highest and productivity.
Model value streams the highest standard of quality and safety, standards of cyber security.
We apply a across our business allow us to test the and that we minimise our impact on unified, top-level approach to leverage effectiveness of new manufacturing the environment.
our scale and maximise product security.
technologies and approaches in a live In FY2018, we focused on cyber security, environment.
These projects are already PRODUCT QUALITY and process and controls, with both being recording significant improvements in Our cross-divisional quality council incorporated into our NPI process.
HSE, quality, efficiency and lead times.
drives our approach to quality through standardised policies, processes and Were embracing new manufacturing Product safety guidelines, to help our Divisions embed technologies by piloting additive Our approach to product lifecycle quality in their work, supported by manufacturing, deploying collaborative management means thinking about safety a culture of sharing knowledge and robots CoBots in live production, and at every step including how the product continuous improvement.
automating product lines in some areas.
is designed, manufactured, used and We also have augmented reality trials disposed of.
We are developing common We focus our broad performance underway to understand the potential quality procedures to minimise product monitoring on two quality metrics benefits to operations.
safety and quality issues, and monitor defects per million parts shipped performance through quality control DPPM and cost of poor quality COPQ.
In FY2019, well continue to embed lean processes and systems.
COPQ includes the costs of waste, and continuous improvement tools and corrective work, warranty claims, returns resources within manufacturing and In FY2018, we established a crossand penalties, measured as a percentage service sites, establishing a common divisional restricted substances working of annual revenue.
approach to production across the Group.
group to help minimise the use of hazardous materials in our products and In FY2018, we recorded ensure compliance with local regulations.
DEFECTS PER COST OF POOR MILLION PARTS QUALITY SHIPPED 424 1.7% FY2017: 459 FY2017: 2.1% IMAGINING THE FUTURE TRANSFORMING MANUFACTURING THROUGH TECHNOLOGY COLLABORATIVE ROBOTS IN A LIVE PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENT Were investing in new production technologies to bring the biggest benefits, without adding unnecessary complexity to what we do.
In FY2018, our Smiths Interconnect manufacturing facility in Alajuela, Costa Rica, celebrated the introduction of the first CoBot to be fully deployed in a live production environment at Smiths.
This new style of robot allows the production team to safely interact with the CoBot as it assembles and tests high volume electronic components as part of the production process.
66 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED PRODUCTION CONTINUED Energy and GHG emissions By FY2021, we aim to reduce our GHG ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT emissions by a further 5%, normalised Our GHG emissions calculations and Were committed to using energy and to revenue, and increase our use of reporting follows the Greenhouse Gas natural resources efficiently within our renewable energy by an additional 5% protocol operational approach and cover operations and reducing our greenhouse from the current 43% of our electricity emissions from all sources under our gas GHG emissions, through advanced use by using more energy efficient control, grouped under: Scope 1 production processes that decrease waste equipment and green energy contracts.
direct GHG emissions from owned and energy consumption.
Weve also assets: and Scope 2 GHG emissions invested in environmental management Well focus on reducing water usage by from supplied electricity.
Emissions from systems that drive improvement in our an additional 5%, normalised to revenue, company vehicles and fugitive sources are performance and focus on procuring in regions where water resources are not deemed to be material, and so are not energy that produces no GHG emissions.
reported as limited by other agencies.
While we dont operate in any regions Our HSE and GHG policies are used defined as stressed by UNESCO, weve by each division to develop tailored Environmental goals identified sites where we can have an strategies.
We closely monitor energy Weve set new three-year environmental impact on local resources by minimising and water use, waste generation and improvement targets for FY2019 our water use.
Weve also targeted an GHG emissions to identify potential in accordance with our HSE and increase in the amount we recycle to improvements, sharing mitigating action GHG policies.
75%, including waste, water and other plans and best practice across the Group.
materials, within our operations and local sites.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE In FY2013, we set environmental targets to reduce, by FY2018, our energy usage, GHG emissions and waste generation Emissions FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 by 15%, and our water usage by 10%, Absolute values all normalised to revenue.
By the end of FY2018, wed met and exceeded three Scope 1 direct emissions t CO e 12,241 11,143 12,088 2 of our four targets.
Scope 2 indirect emissions t CO2e 55,841 62,072 69,004 Total t CO e 68,082 73,215 81,092 2 Performance against environmental metrics Normalised values FY2013-2018 FY2018 target outcome Scope 1 direct emissions t CO e m revenue 3.65 3.74 3.95 2 Energy 15 % 13 % Scope 2 indirect emissions t CO2e m revenue 16.63 20.83 22.56 Greenhouse gas 15 % 38 % Total t CO e m revenue 20.28 24.57 26.51 2 emissions Total non-recycled 15 % 27 % waste Water consumption 10 % 29 % Reduction targets are compared to the FY2013 baseline year and normalised to FY2018 revenue.
MINIMISING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REDUCING OUR WATER USE Thinking outside the box, a John Crane facility has installed a closed loop wastewater recycling system which allows them to re-use treated water used during production for flushing toilets.
Designed to reduce water consumption by 15%, this project is reinforcing our Group-wide commitment to reducing our environmental impact.
67 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements SUPPLY Were building strong strategic supplier SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT HUMAN RIGHTS AND relationships to ensure quality, efficiency We apply an end-to-end, cross-functional, TACKLING MODERN SLAVERY and flexibility.
total value approach to supply chain Were committed to upholding all management.
This helps deliver better We apply our shared values to everything internationally recognised human forecast accuracy, OTIF on-time and we do, and ask our suppliers to do rights standards wherever we do in-full delivery and improved lead times the same.
business, and to addressing any for customers, as well as improved stock modern slavery risks in our operations turns, production costs and working SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT and supply chain.
AND CONDUCT During FY2018, we conducted an Our Supplier Code of Conduct, revised We measure supplier performance internal site survey and made an in FY2018, makes clear our expectations through OTIF delivery and supplier quality.
assessment of existing suppliers using of suppliers when it comes to ethical In FY2019, well introduce supplier score a variety of factors, including country behaviour, the supply of minerals from cards to drive performance improvement ranking on the Global Slavery Index.
socially and environmentally responsible and further develop our supplier Our sites and suppliers identified as sources, and the environment.
high-risk were asked to complete a To grow sustainably, we need strong, questionnaire with any issues identified TRADE COMPLIANCE smart partnerships to generate and investigated, and remedial actions Doing business in the right way means capture value.
We want to limit our taken.
We also revised our standard respecting laws wherever we operate.
partnerships to those suppliers who are supply contracts to require our Our trade compliance policies and committed to Smiths and the way we suppliers to ensure their own suppliers procedures set out the necessary do things.
follow our anti-modern-slavery and controls and provide corporate oversight labour standards commitments.
Supplier contracts and payment terms of transactions.
Our cross-divisional vary across the Group.
We aim to We launched a modern slavery trade compliance working group meets contract with our suppliers in line with awareness campaign to further regularly to share best practice and local practice and meet our contractual educate our people on the risks of address emerging issues.
We also obligations with regard to payment.
modern slavery at our facilities and regularly assess trade activities at the site those of our suppliers.
You can read level to identify risks and review controls.
our latest modern slavery statement on our website.
In FY2019, well continue our due diligence drive with a focus on tier one suppliers, and enhance our monitoring capabilities, supplier controls, and human rights training.
MINIMISING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STAYING AHEAD OF SUPPLY CHAIN RISK ASSESSING THE HEALTH OF OUR SUPPLY CHAIN We source a wide range of materials and components to make the technologies our customers rely on.
To give us constant visibility of the health of our supply chain and react faster to emerging risks, we developed a dedicated supplier risk tool that aggregates data on 6,000 of our suppliers representing over 90% of our spend.
