82 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 NOMINATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES Succession planning When considering potential Board candidates the Committee reviews the Board succession plan.
In FY2018, particular focus was given to the skills required for the Board to continue to deliver the Groups growth strategy, in anticipation of the retirement of Anne Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
The Committee recommended the SIR GEORGE BUCKLEY Chair of the Nomination Committee appointment of John Shipsey as Chief Financial Officer and Olivier Bohuon and Dame Ann Dowling as non-executive IN ORDER TO FULFIL ITS Directors.
In FY2018, external search Inclusive and diverse Boards are ROLE THE COMMITTEE firm Buchanan Harvey & Co. was used better able to understand the for Director appointments: this is its only interests of all our stakeholders.
Takes account of the Groups connection to Smiths.
Buchanan Harvey & strategy, business performance, This leads to stronger governance Co. is a member of the Voluntary Code of current and future leadership and better decision-making.
Conduct for executive search firms.
needs, challenges and In July 2018, the Group Human Resources opportunities, and makes Director presented a report on executive ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE recommendations to the Board Director and senior management on its composition and that of leadership and succession, and the The Nomination Committee reviews and its Committees Committee undertook a detailed review makes recommendations to the Board Holds at least one meeting a year of talent management.
on the structure, size and composition to review senior management of the Board and its Committees.
The Committee considered the succession plans and the quality of In fulfilling this role, the Committee independence requirements set out in the the talent pipeline across the Group considers the balance of skills, UK Corporate Governance Code, and in Conducts an annual review of its knowledge, experience and diversity May recommended to the Board that Bill performance and of its Terms of on the Board, and takes account of the Seeger be considered independent and Reference, and recommends any Groups strategy, current and future rejoin the Nomination and Remuneration changes to the Board challenges and opportunities.
Committees, following his role as CFO on an interim basis in 2017.
On the The Committee leads the Director recommendation of the Committee, and appointment process, and is subject to his re-election at the AGM, Bill responsible for considering PERFORMANCE EVALUATION will succeed Sir Kevin Tebbit as Senior Director and senior management Independent Director.
In FY2018, the performance of the Committee was considered as part of Diversity The members of the Committee and the wider externally facilitated Board their meeting attendance during the In FY2018, the Board delegated an evaluation process.
A number of minor year is set out on page 76.
The Chief additional responsibility to the Committee recommendations were made to Executive is normally invited to attend to review and approve the Board Diversity enhance the Committees operation, Committee meetings and has attended Policy.
The Board has published a new and overall it was confirmed each of the meetings in FY2018.
Board Diversity Policy, details of which that the Committee continues to Other members of senior management can be found on page 78.
are invited to attend as necessary.
considered how to express the Boards commitment to diversity in its broadest sense, and targets were agreed which are in line with the Groups strategy.
