76 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 MEMBERSHIP Audit Committee report Member from Meetings attended 1 Robin Freestone Chair September 2015 8 8 1,2 Ian Barlow May 2010 7 8 3,4 Roland Diggelmann March 2018 5 6 2018 was my first full year as Erik Engstrom January 2015 8 8 Mark Owen October 2017 8 8 Chairof the Audit Committee.
5 Joseph Papa February 2011 3 3 Ihaveoverseen a busy schedule 1 D esignated financial experts under the SEC Regulations or recent andrelevant with the Committee meeting financial experience under the UK Corporate GovernanceCode.
2 I an Barlow missed one Audit Committee meeting on 11 April 2018. eighttimes during the year.
3 R oland Diggelmann joined the Audit Committee on 1 March 2018.
4 R oland Diggelmann missed one Audit Committee meeting on 24July2018.
5 J oseph Papa retired from the Board and Audit Committee at the AnnualGeneral Meeting on 12 April 2018.
In addition to discharging its role in accordance with its terms KPMG have now completed their fourth years audit and continue ofreference, the Committee has met its commitments to provide toprovide robust challenge.
We have negotiated fees that will continue assurance in respect of various non-routine matters.
Areas of scrutiny to be reviewed for good market practice.
We have also agreed for the Committee in 2018 have included: the progression of NAPO, arrangements for rotation of the senior partner in accordance with ourSAP Enterprise Resource Planning migration in North America : recommendations set out in the Financial Reporting Councils FRC top risks identified in the 2017 Annual Report such as CyberSecurity: Guidance for Audit Committees 2016 and as required by the Securities Brexit readiness: and the Accelerating Performance and Execution Exchange Commission SEC.
Finally, we note the positive comments APEX programme.
received from the FRC following its review of KPMGs auditofSmith & Nephews financial statements for2017.
In 2018 the Committee oversaw the adoption of two accounting standards, IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS 9 Our focus for 2019 will include: Financial Instruments.
A detailed impact assessment of the application of IFRS 15 was undertaken with the conclusion being that there The next phase of the APEX programme.
was no significant impact on the timing and recognition of revenue.
Themain impact on adoption of IFRS 9 has been the implementation of the expected credit loss methodology for the calculation of the loss allowance for trade receivables.
This resulted in an additional Ensuring compliance with new leasing standard IFRS 16. loss allowance of $14 million being recognised on 1 January 2018.
With regard to IFRS 16 Leases, the Committee considered the application of exemptions, estimated impact, transition preparations including Risk management process aligned to the new strategy the implementation of a new lease accounting software solution and andorganisational structure.
IFRS 16 will be adopted on 1 January 2019 with no restatement ofcomparatives.
Continuing to provide assurance on the effectiveness In May 2018 we welcomed our new Chief Executive Officer, Namal ofmanaging the risks associated with Cyber Security.
Under Namals leadership, Smith & Nephew has established its new strategy and organisational structure.
That will provide the context for our focus of activity for 2019 particularly as it will form Ensuring that we are compliant with additional governance thebackdrop for our risk assessment.
andreporting requirements coming into effect for 2019 suchas the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Roland Diggelmann joined the Audit Committee in March 2018 where his experience and expertise enables him toprovide appropriate challenge to information presented at meetings by the Executive.
Ian Barlow will be standing down as a member of the Board after the AGM on 11 April.
He has served as member of the Committee since 2010 including seven years as Chair and has been the SeniorIndependent Director since 2017.
I should like to take this Robin Freestone opportunity to thank Ian for his valuable contribution and wise Chair of the Audit Committee counselduring his tenure.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee describe the role andresponsibilities more fully andcanbe found on our website atwww.
77 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued The Group carries a provision relating to potential liabilities arising SIGNIFICANT MATTERS RELATED on its portfolio of metal-on-metal hip products of $192 million as of  31 December 2018.
We received detailed reports from management We considered the following key areas of judgement in relation to the on this position, including the actuarial model used to estimate the 2018 accounts and at each half-year and quarterly trading report, which provision, and challenged the key assumptions, including the number we discussed in all cases with management and the external auditor: of claimants and projected value of each claim.
The provisions for legal matters have increased by $27 million during the year, primarily due to Valuation of inventories an increase in the metal-on-metal provision.
There have been some A feature of the Orthopaedic Reconstruction and Trauma & Extremities smaller movements from other cases having been resolved.
We have franchises whose inventory makes up approximately 60% of the Group determined that the proposed levels of provisioning at year end of total inventory is the high level of product inventory required, some of $217 million included within provisions in Note 17.1 in 2018 $190 million which is located at customer premises and is available for customers in 2017 were appropriate in the circumstances.
Impairment Complete sets of products, including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently In carrying out impairment reviews of acquisition intangible assets a than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are number of significant assumptions have to be made when preparing inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are cash flow projections.
These include the future rate of market growth, therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate discount rates, the market demand for the products acquired, the future this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in accordance with a profitability of acquired businesses or products, levels of reimbursement formula based on levels of inventory compared with historical usage.
and success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should This formula is applied on an individual product line basis and is differ or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be first applied when a product group has been on the market for two required, which would adversely impact operating results.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate based on Our action experience, but it does involve management estimation of customer We reviewed managements reports on the key assumptions with demand, effectiveness of inventory deployment, length of product respect to acquisition intangible assets particularly the forecast lives, phase-out of old products and efficiency of manufacturing future cash flows and discount rates used to make these calculations.
We concluded that the carrying value of these assets is appropriately Our action supported by the cash flow projections.
We have also considered the At each quarter end, we received reports from, and discussed disclosure surrounding these reviews, and concluded that the review with, management the level of provisioning and material areas at and disclosure were appropriate.
The provisioning level was 18% at 31 December 2018 19% as at 31 December 2017.
We challenged the basis of the provisions Taxation and concluded that the proposed levels were appropriate and have The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world beenconsistently estimated.
and it is Group policy to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax authorities as promptly as possible.
At any given time, the Group is Liability provisioning involved in disputes and tax audits and will have a number of tax returns The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant potentially subject to audit.
Significant issues may take several years degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when to resolve.
In estimating the probability and amount of any tax charge, it is considered probable that an adverse outcome will occur and management takes into account the views of internal and external the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
In making its advisers and updates the amount of tax provision whenever necessary.
estimates, management takes into account the advice of internal and The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided depending external legal counsel and uses third party actuarial modelling where on factors including interpretations of tax law, settlement negotiations or appropriate.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts updated changes in legislation.
where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
The ultimate Our action liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the outcome We annually review our processes and approve the principles for of court proceedings and settlement negotiations or if investigations management of tax risks.
We review quarterly reports from management bring to light new facts.
evaluating existing risks and tax provisions.
Based on a thorough report Our action from management of tax liabilities and our challenge of the basis of any As members of the Board, we receive regular updates from the Chief tax provisions recorded, we concluded that the levels of provisions and Legal and Compliance Officer.
These updates form the basis for the level disclosures were appropriate.
78 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Early February Late February April May July September October December Preliminary Financial Statements 2018 Q1 Trading Report 2018 H1 Results 2018 Q3 Trading Report Announcement FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING Reviewing significant financial reporting judgements and accounting policies and compliance with Endorsed 2017 results Approved the Annual Debrief of Annual Reviewed and endorsed Reviewed and Reviewed and endorsed Reviewed accounting accounting standards.
and Preliminary Report and Accounts for Reportprocess and 2018 Q1 Trading Report endorsed H1 results Q3 Trading Report matters for 2018 announcement 2017 including report of timetable for2018 and announcement andannouncement andannouncement Ensuring the integrity of the financial statements and their compliance with UK and US statutory requirements.
Considered and approved the Audit Committee Report from KPMG Approved Senior Finance Approved the Companys Report from KPMG Clarified MDR policy critical accounting policies Ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and recommending confirming fair, balanced on2017results Officers Code of Ethics policy and report on onH1results and judgements in theiradoptionby the Board.
New reporting and understandable Conflict Minerals for advance of2018 year end Reviewed draft Reviewed summary Approved letter andregulatory Monitoring announcements relating to the Groups financial performance.
Report from KPMG submission to NYSE 2017 Annual Report ofCompany audits ofrepresentation requirements update Reviewed preparation on 2017statements including report of the forH12018 workfor adoption ofIFRS16 Unqualified Opinion AuditCommittee Approved plans for delivery Approved letter of Assessed compliance of the AnnualReport 2018 representation for 2017 with UK and USgovernance Reviewed S302 and requirements S906certifications Confirmed Going Concern and ViabilityStatement INTERNAL AUDIT INTERNAL AUDIT Agreeing Internal Audit plans and reviewing reports of Internal Audit work.
Reviewed year Reviewed effectiveness Reviewed progress Reviewed progress Reviewed Progress endReport ofInternal Audit andapproved Charter Monitoring the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
and2019 Plan Reviewing the control observations made by the Internal Auditor, the adequacy of managements response torecommendations and the status of any unremediated actions.
RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT On behalf of the Board, reviewing and ensuring oversight of the processes by which risks are managed, through Risk Management Confirmed effective system Risk Management Risk Management Risk Management regular functional reports and presentations, and reporting any issues arising out of such reviews tothe Board.
Update of risk management in Update Update Update place and approved the Reviewing the process undertaken and deep-dive work required to complete the Viability Statement and Viability Statement recommending its adoption to the Board.
Reviewing the impact of risk management and internal controls and working closely with the Ethics &Compliance Committee.
Overseeing risk management processes see pages 40 49 for further details.
Regularly reviewing the risk register.
INTERNAL CONTROLS INTERNAL CONTROLS Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Considered SarbanesReviewed effectiveness Considered SarbanesConsidered SarbanesConsidered Sarbanesand the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, specifically sections 302 and 404.
Oxley Sox andMAPs of Internal Controls over Oxley Sox andMAPs Oxley Sox andMAPs Oxley Sox andMAPs Update financial reporting Planning 2018 progress progress Reviewing the operation of the Groups risk mitigation processes and the control environment over financial risk.
FRAUD & WHISTLE-BLOWING FRAUD & WHISTLE-BLOWING Receiving reports on the processes in place to prevent fraud and to enable whistle-blowing.
Reviewed Internal Reviewed Internal Audit Reviewed Internal AuditReport on Fraud Report on Fraud AuditReport on Fraud If significant, receive and review reports of potential fraud or whistle-blowing incidents.
andWhistle-blowing andWhistle-blowing Reviewed InternalAuditReport on Fraud.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR EXTERNAL AUDITOR Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external auditor.
Confirmed Reviewed effectiveness Endorsed External Approved 2017 fee Approved Engagement KPMG Fee Results of FRC Review independence and independence AuditPlan overruns letter for 2018 Schedule 2018 ofKPMG Monitoring and reviewing the independence and performance of the external auditor of KPMG and concluded their andevaluatingtheir effectiveness.
Noted partner rotation effectiveness arrangements Making recommendations to the Board for the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditor.
Approved external auditor Monitoring and approving the external auditors fees.
fees for 2017 OTHER MATTERS OTHER MATTERS Endorsed NAPO Approved consultancy Treasury Update Cyber Security Update Update on NAPO Tax Update processing and fees to external advisors Cyber Security Project reports Cyber Update schedulingplan includingAPEX Project reports APEX Update Approved Audit including Apex Tax Update Strategy Committees TOR China Channel Cyber Security Management 79 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Early February Late February April May July September October December Preliminary Financial Statements 2018 Q1 Trading Report 2018 H1 Results 2018 Q3 Trading Report Announcement FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING Reviewing significant financial reporting judgements and accounting policies and compliance with Endorsed 2017 results Approved the Annual Debrief of Annual Reviewed and endorsed Reviewed and Reviewed and endorsed Reviewed accounting accounting standards.
fees for 2017 OTHER MATTERS OTHER MATTERS Endorsed NAPO Approved consultancy Treasury Update Cyber Security Update Update on NAPO Tax Update processing and fees to external advisors Cyber Security Project reports Cyber Update schedulingplan includingAPEX Project reports APEX Update Approved Audit including Apex Tax Update Strategy Committees TOR China Channel Cyber Security Management 80 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued OTHER MATTERS RELATED TO Effectiveness of external auditor s THE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS We conducted a review into the effectiveness of the external audit as part of the 2018 year end process, in line with previous years.
Regular private meetings have taken place between the Audit We sought the views of key members of the finance management Committee and the External auditor KPMG and the Audit Committee team, considered the feedback from this process and shared it and the Group Head ofInternal Audit.
As well as the identified significant matters, other matters that the During the year, we also considered the inspection reports from the AuditCommittee considered during 2018 were: Audit Oversight Board in the UK and determined that we were satisfied with the audit quality provided by KPMG.
Business combinations During 2018, we considered and concurred with management that The Audit Committee regularly receives feedback from KPMG, including therehad been no changes to the provisional fair values recognised at each meeting where management present their summary of critical inthe 2017 acquisition of Rotation Medical, Inc. accounting estimates as at each quarter end.
Overall therefore, we concluded that KPMG had carried out their audit Post Retirement Benefts for 2018 effectively.
The Group has post retirement defined benefit pension schemes, which The Audit Committee continues to review not only the effectiveness require estimation in setting the assumptions.
We received a report from ofthe external auditor, KPMG, but also its market competitiveness.
management setting out their proposed assumptions for the UK and US schemes and concurred with management that these assumptions were appropriate.
Appointment of external auditor  Since the year end Resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11April 2019 proposing the re-appointment of KPMG as the Companys Since the year end we have also reviewed the results for the full year auditor and authorising the Board to determine its remuneration, on 2018, the preliminary announcement, Annual Report and Accounts, the recommendation of the Audit Committee in accordance with the for 2018 and have concluded that they are fair, balanced and Competition and Markets Authority CMA Order 2014. understandable.
In coming to this conclusion, we have considered the description of the Groups strategy and key risks, the key elements of the business model, which is set out on pages 1213, risks and the key Disclosure of Information to the auditor performance indicators and their link to the strategy.
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors serving at the time of approving the Directors Report confirm EXTERNAL AUDITOR that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor, KPMG, is unaware and the Directors Independence of external auditor also confirm that they have taken reasonable steps to be aware of any Following a competitive tender in 2014, KPMG was appointed external relevant audit information and, accordingly, to establish that the Auditor auditor of the Company in 2015.
We are satisfied that KPMG are fully is aware of such information.
independent from the Companys management and free from conflicts of interest.
Our Auditor Independence Policy, which ensures that this Non-Audit Fees Paid to the auditor independence is maintained, is available on the Companys website.
Non-audit fees are subject to approval in line with the Auditor We believe that the implementation of this policy helps ensure that Independence Policy which is reviewed annually and forms part auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
The policy oftheterms of reference of the Audit Committee.
alsogoverns our approach when we require our external auditor to carry out non-audit services, and all such services are strictly governed The Audit Committee recognises the importance of the independence by this policy.
of the external auditor and ensures that the Auditors independence should not be breached.
The Audit Committee ensures that the Auditor The Auditor Independence Policy also governs the policy regarding does not receive a fee from the Company or its subsidiaries that would audit partner rotation with the expectation that the audit partner will be deemed large enough to impact its independence or be deemed rotate at least every five years.
Stephen Oxley has been in tenure a contingent fee.
The total fees for permitted non-audit services shall for four years as our Audit Partner.
The Audit Committee confirms be no more than 70% of the average of the fees paid in the last three it has complied withthe provision of the Competition and Markets consecutive financial years for the statutory audits of the Company Authority Order.
81 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Any pre-approved aggregate, individual amounts up to $25,000 may During the year, the team completed 53 risk based audits and reviews be authorised by the Group Treasurer and Senior Vice-President Group across the Group.
These included Financial and Operational Market Finance respectively and amounts up to $50,000 by the Chief Financial based reviews covering the EMEA, APAC, US and Latam Regions: Global Officer.
Any individual amount over $50,000 must be pre-approved by Operations, including manufacturing and supply chain: IT and various the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
If unforeseen additional permitted Programme Assurance reviews ranging from the implementation of services are required, or any which exceed the amounts approved, SAPacross the North American Business to MDR preparedness.
again pre-approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required.
Key issues noted during reviews included the need to better control user access to some systems, also the need to improve internal controls The following reflects the non-audit fees incurred with KPMG in 2018, in a number of smaller markets.
Management has taken swift action to which were approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee: implement Internal Audits recommendations.
2018 2017 $ million $ million A periodic review of the Internal Audit function is undertaken by an independent external consultant, in accordance with the guidelines Tax fees and Assistance with taxcompliance 0.1 compliance in Singapore only of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
In 2018 KPMG completed an services ISA 610 review of the function and this concluded satisfactorily.
Finally, the performance of the function is assessed using a structured Tax compliance services conducted by KPMG in 2017 only took place questionnaire, allowing Non-Executive and Executive and senior in countries where it is required by law for the auditor to conduct management, plus the external auditor, to comment on key aspects of theseservices.
The Audit Committee, which re-approved the functions charter in December 2018, has satisfied itself that The ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees for the year ended 31 December adequate, objective internal audit standards and procedures exist 2018 is 0.00.
The ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees for the year ended within the Group and that the Internal Audit function is effective.
Full details are shown in Note 3.2 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME Whilst the Board is responsible for ensuring oversight of strategic Audit Fees paid to the auditor risks relating to the Company, determining an appropriate level of Fees for professional services provided by KPMG, the Groups risk appetite, and monitoring risks through a range of Board and independent auditor in each of the last two fiscal years, in each of the Board Committee processes, the Audit Committee is responsible for following categories were: ensuringoversight of the processes by which operational risks, relating 2018 2017 to the Company and its operations are managed and for reviewing $ million $ million financial risks and the operating effectiveness of the Groups Risk Audit fees 6.0 4.4 Management process.
Audit-related fees During the year, we reviewed our Risk Management processes and Total 6.0 4.4 progress was discussed at our meetings in February, July, September and December.
We approved the Risk Management Programme for 2018 and monitored performance against that plan specifically INTERNAL AUDIT reviewing the work undertaken by the risk champions across the Group, The Internal Audit team, which reports functionally to the Audit identifying the risks which could impact their areas of our business.
Committee, carries out risk-based reviews across the Group.
These reviews examine the management of risks and controls over The Risk Management programme in 2018 followed the new risk financial, operational, IT and transformation programme activities.
management policy and manual rolled out across the Company in 2017.
This programme combines a bottom up approach whereby risks The audit team, led by the Group Head of Internal Audit, consists of are identified within business areas by local risk champions working appropriately qualified and experienced employees.
Third parties may with their leadership teams, with a top-down approach when the be engaged to support audit work as appropriate.
ExecutiveCommittee meets as the Risk Committee to consider the risksfacing the Group at an enterprise level.
The Group Head of Internal Audit has direct access to, and has regular meetings with, the Audit Committee Chair and prepares formal reports Throughout the year, the Audit Committee maintained oversight for Audit Committee meetings on the activities and key findings of the of this programme.
We reviewed the principal risks identified and function, together with the status of managements implementation the heat maps prepared by management showing how these risks ofrecommendations.
The Audit Committee has unrestricted access were being managed.
We considered those risks where the risk toall internal audit reports, should it wish to review them.
profile waschanging particularly political and economic risks as a consequence of Brexit.
We also reviewed the deep dives undertaken bythe Group Risk team, which looked more closely at the risks impacting certain business areas.
82 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Since the year end, we have reviewed a report from the Group Head of EVALUATION OF INTERNAL CONTROLS Internal Audit into the effectiveness of the Risk Management Programme Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate throughout the year.
We considered the principal risks, the actions internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a15 f and taken by management to review those risks and the Board risk appetite 15d15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. in respect of each risk.
There is an established system of internal control throughout the Group We concluded that the Risk Management process during 2018 and up and our country business units.
The main elements of the internal to the date of approval of this Annual Report was effective.
Work will control framework are: continue in 2019 and beyond to continue to enhance the process.
The management of each country and group function is responsible See pages 4049 for further information on our Risk for the establishment, maintenance and review of effective financial Management Process.
controls within their business unit or function.
The Groups IT organisation is responsible for the establishment of VIABILITY STATEMENT effective IT controls within the core financial systems and underlying IT infrastructure.
We also reviewed managements work in conducting a robust assessment of those risks which would threaten our business model The Financial Controls & Compliance Group has responsibility for and the future performance or liquidity of the Company, including its the review of the effectiveness of controls operating in the countries, resilience to the threats of viability posed by those risks in severe but functions and IT organisation, either by performing testing directly plausible scenarios.
This assessment included stress and sensitivity orreviewing testing performed in-country.
analyses of these risks to enable us to evaluate the impact of a severe The Group Finance Manual sets out financial and accounting but plausible combination of risks.
We then considered whether policies.
The Groups Minimum Acceptable Practices MAPs have additional financing would be required in such eventualities.
Based on been further enhanced during 2018 by simplifying and clarifying the this analysis, we recommended to the Board that it could approve and requirements as well as broadening their scope and incorporating make the Viability Statement on page 5051. the core financial controls.
The business is required to self-assess their level of compliance with the MAPs twice a year and remediate GOING CONCERN any gaps.
MAPs compliance is validated through spot-checks The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect conducted by the Financial Controls & Compliance Group and its future development, performance and position are set out in the duringboth Internal Audit and external audit visits.
Financial review and principal risks section on pages 4247.
There are clearly defined lines of accountability and delegations of authority.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position andborrowing facilities are described on page 3839.
During the year, there has been further progress in standardising our core financial controls globally and merging with the MAPs.
In addition, the Notes to the Group accounts include the Groups In 2019, there will be a focus on implementing a technology solution objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial tofacilitate the operation and testing of controls.
risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and The Internal Audit function executes a risk-based annual work plan, hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
as approved by the Audit Committee.
The Group has considerable financial resources and its customers The Audit Committee reviews reports from Internal Audit on their and suppliers are diversified across different geographic areas.
As a findings on internal financial controls, including compliance with consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to MAPs and from the SVP Group Finance and the heads of the manage its business risk successfully despite the ongoing uncertain Financial Controls & Compliance, Taxation and Treasury functions.
The Audit Committee reviews regular reports from the Financial The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has Controls & Compliance Group with regard to compliance with adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the the Sarbanes-Oxley Act including the scope and results of foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern managements testing and progress regarding any remediation, as basisfor accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
well as the aggregated results of MAPs self-assessments performed by the business.
Management also believes that the Group has sufficient working capitalfor its present requirements.
Business continuity planning, including preventative and contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the purchase of insurance.
Risk management policies and procedures including segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, financial and managerial review and comprehensive reporting and analysis against approved standards and budgets.
83 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued A treasury operating framework and Group treasury team, The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer evaluated accountable for all treasury activities, which establishes policies and the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups manages liquidity and financial risks, including foreign exchange, disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2018. interest rate and counterparty exposures.
Treasury policies, risk Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining limits and monitoring procedures are reviewed regularly by the adequate internal control over financial reporting.
AuditCommittee, or the Finance and Banking Committee, on behalf Management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal of the Board.
control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2018 in Our published Group tax strategy which details our approach to tax accordance with the requirements in the US under section 404 of risk management and governance, tax compliance, tax planning, the the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In making that assessment, they used the level of tax risk we are prepared to accept and how we deal with tax criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of authorities, which is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework the Board.
Based on their assessment, management concluded and reported that, as at 31 December 2018, the Groups internal control The Audit Committee reviews the Group whistle-blower procedures over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.
to ensure they are effective.
Having received the report from management, the Audit Committee The Audit Committee received and reviewed a report on the reports to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
KPMG, an progress of the Finance Transformation during 2018 and the independent registered public accounting firm issued an audit mitigation of the associated risks.
report on the Groups internal control over financial reporting asat31 December 2018.
This system of internal control has been designed to manage rather than eliminate material risks to the achievement of our strategic CODE OF ETHICS FOR SENIOR FINANCIAL OFFICERS and business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Because of We have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which inherent limitation, our internal controls over financial reporting may not applies to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the prevent or detect all misstatements.
In addition, our projections of any SVP Group Finance and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have evaluation of effectiveness in future periods are subject to the risk that been no waivers to any of the Codes provisions nor have there been controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, any substantive amendments to the Code during 2018 or up until or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may 15February 2019.
A copy of the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial deteriorate.
Entities where the Company does not hold a controlling Officers can be found on our website at www.
interest have their own processes of internal controls similar to those In addition, every individual in the finance function certifies to the ofthe Company.
ChiefFinancial Officer that they have complied with the Finance We have reviewed the system of internal financial control and satisfied CodeofConduct.
ourselves that we are meeting the required standards both for the year ended 31 December 2018 and up to the date of approval of this Annual EVALUATION OF COMPOSITION, PERFORMANCE Report.
No concerns were raised with us in 2018 regarding possible ANDEFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE improprieties in matters of financial reporting.
The composition, performance and effectiveness of the Audit Committee was evaluated this year in accordance with the This process complies with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and EUAuditReform.
Its effectiveness is also reviewed in conjunction withthe annual Board evaluation, conducted by Boardroom Review.
Business Reporting on the UK Corporate Governance Code and additionally contributes to our compliance with the obligations under the The review by the Audit Committee found the following and the below Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other internal assurance activities.
There has action will be taken during 2019: been no change during the period covered by this Annual Report that Composition has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Following retirement of Ian Barlow anadditional Groups internal control over financial reporting.
member with recent andrelevant financial experience willbe required The Board is responsible overall for reviewing and approving the Performance & The Audit Committee is well chaired, with a clear role, adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management framework and Effectiveness the system of internal controls over financial, operational including an efficient use of time and high quality information quality management and ethical compliance processes operated by the Group.
The Board has delegated responsibility for this review to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee, through its Internal Audit function, reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control procedures and identifies any significant weaknesses and ensures these are remediated within agreed timelines.
The latest review covered the financial year to 31 December 2018 and included the period up to theapproval of this Annual Report.
The main elements of this review areasfollows:
