54 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Our Board of Directors ROBERTO QUARTA 69 NAMAL NAWANA 48 GRAHAM BAKER 50 Chair Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Joined the Board in December 2013 and appointed Joined the Board and was appointed Chief Executive Joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer in Chair following election by shareholders at the 2014 Officer on 7 May 2018.
He was also appointed by shareholders at the AGM on 11April 2019.
Career and experience Chair ofthe Nomination & Governance Committee Heisbased in Andover, US.
andaMember of the Remuneration Committee on Graham holds an MA degree in Economics from Career and experience that day.
Cambridge University and qualified as a Chartered Prior to Smith & Nephew Namal was Chief Executive Accountant and Chartered Tax Adviser with Arthur Career and experience Officer and a member of the Board of Medical Andersen.
In 1995, he joined AstraZeneca PLC Roberto is a graduate and a former Trustee of Diagnostics Company Alere Inc, until its $8 billion where he worked for 20 years, holding multiple theCollege of the Holy Cross, Worcester MA, acquisition by Abbott in 2017.
Before joining Alere, senior roles, including Vice President Finance & US.
Hestarted his career as a manager trainee at Namal spent more than 15 years at Johnson & Chief Financial Officer, NorthAmerica 20082010, David Gessner Ltd, before moving on to Worcester Johnson in progressively senior leadership roles Vice President, Global Financial Services 20102013 Controls Corporation and then BTR plc, where globally including the role of Worldwide President and VicePresident, Finance, International 20132015 he was a divisional Chief Executive.
Between of Johnson & Johnsons multi-billion dollar spine with responsibility for all emerging markets.
1985 and 1989 he was Executive VP of Hitchiner franchise, DePuy Synthes Spine.
In addition to his Most recently, Graham was Chief Financial Officer Manufacturing Co. Inc.
He returned to BTR plc in role as CEO of Smith & Nephew, Namal is also a ofgeneric pharmaceuticals company Alvogen.
1989 as Divisional Chief Executive, where he was member of the Board of Directors of Hologic, Inc. a appointed to the main board.
Fromhere he moved Nasdaq listed company and Advamed Advanced Skills and competencies to BBA Aviation plc, asCEOand then as Chair, Medical Technology Association.
Graham has deep sector knowledge and has had until2007.
extensive exposure to established and emerging Skills and competencies He has held several board positions, including markets which is extremely relevant to his role at Namal holds an undergraduate degree in Non-Executive Director of Powergen plc, Equant Smith & Nephew.
He has a strong track record Mechanical Engineering and a Masters degree in N. V. BAE Systems plc and Foster Wheeler AG.
His of delivering operational excellence and has Medical Science from the University of Adelaide, previous Chairmanships include Italtel SpA, Rexel relevant experience across major finance roles South Australia, as well as an MBA from Henley S. A. IMIplc and SPIE SA.
He is currently Chair of and geographic markets, leading large teams Management College.
He is a global leader with WPP plc.
He is a partner at Clayton Dubilier & Rice responsible for significant budgets.
broad experience in healthcare and medical and a former member of the Investment Committee technology.
Nationality of Fondo Strategico Italiano S. p. A. British Nationality Skills and competencies Australian French Robertos career in private equity brings valuable experience to Smith & Nephew, particularly when evaluating acquisitions and new business opportunities.
He has an in-depth understanding of differing global governance requirements havingserved as a director and chairman of anumber of UK and international companies.
Since his appointment as Chair in April 2014, he has conducted a comprehensive review into the composition of the Board and its Committees, and conducted the search for new Non-Executive Directors, resulting in the appointment of Vinita Bali in 2014, Erik Engstrom and Robin Freestone in2015, Angie Risley and Marc Owen during 2017, andRoland Diggelmann in 2018.
Roberto also conducted the search resulting in the appointment of Namal Nawana as our CEO in 2018.
Nationality American Italian 55 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Our Board of Directors continued VINITA BALI 63 THE RT.
HON BARONESS ROLAND DIGGELMANN 51 Independent Non-Executive Director VIRGINIA BOTTOMLEY OF Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director in Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director and NETTLESTONE DL 70 December 2014 and Member of the Remuneration Member of the Audit Committee on 1March2018.
Independent Non-Executive Director Committee and Compliance & Culture Committee.
He was elected by shareholders atthe AGM on Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director 12April 2018.
He will join the Compliance & Culture in April 2012 and Member of the Remuneration Career and experience Committee in April 2019.
Committee and Nomination & Governance Vinita holds an MBA from the Jamnalal Bajaj Institute Committee in April 2014 and will join the Compliance Career and experience of Management Studies, University of Bombay and & Culture Committee in April 2019. a BA in Economics from the University of Delhi.
Roland studied Business Administration at the She commenced her career in India with a Tata University of Berne.
In 1995, he joined Sulzer AG Career and experience Group Company, and then joined Cadbury India, as Manager Strategic Planning and progressed Virginia gained her MSc in Social Administration subsequently working with Cadbury Schweppes plc into further senior roles over the years until his from the London School of Economics following her in the UK, Nigeria and South Africa.
She has held a appointment as Executive Vice President, Sales first degree.
She was appointed a Life Peer in 2005 number of senior global positions in marketing and Europe and Asia Pacific from 2002 to 2004 for following her career as a Member of Parliament general management at The Coca-Cola Company Sulzer Medica later known as Centerpulse.
She served successively based in the US and South America, becoming Roland joined Zimmer Group in 2004, in the role of as Secretary of State for Health and then Culture, President of the Andean Division in 1999 and VP, Managing Director of Zimmer Japan and then later Media and Sport.
Virginia was formerly a Director of Corporate Strategy in 2001.
In 2003, she joined in 2006 as Senior Vice President, EMEA until 2008.
She is currently a Director Zyman Group, LLC, a US-based consultancy, as Roland joined Roche Diagnostics in 2008 starting of International Resources Group Limited, where Managing Principal.
Vinita was MD and CEO of as president of Asia Pacific before assuming the she is Chair of Board & CEO Practice at Odgers Britannia Industries Limited, a leading Indian publicly role of Chief Executive Officer of the Diagnostics Berndtson.
She is a member of the International listed food company from 2005 to 2014.
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd from 2012 Advisory Council of Chugai Pharmaceutical Vinita is NED of Syngene International Limited, untilSeptember 2018.
Co. Chancellor of University of Hull and Sheriff Bunge Limited and CRISIL India a Standard & Poor of Kingston upon Hull.
She is a Trustee of The Company.
She is also amember of the Advisory Skills and competencies Economist Newspaper.
Having spent his whole career in medical devices, Skills and competencies with 12 years at Sulzer and Zimmer, Roland brings Skills and competencies Virginias extensive experience within Government, an in-depth knowledge of the medical device Vinita has an impressive track record of achievement particularly as Secretary of State for Health, brings a industry and healthcare environment which is of with blue-chip global corporations in multiple unique insight into the healthcare system both in the great value to Smith & Nephew.
geographies including India, Africa, South America, UK and globally, whilst her experience on the board US and UK, all key markets for Smith & Nephew.
Nationality of Bupa brings an understanding of the private Her strong appreciation of customer service and healthcare sector and an insight into the needs of Swiss marketing brings deep insight as Smith & Nephew our customers.
Her experience running the board continues to develop innovative ways to serve our practice at a search firm gives her a valuable skillset markets and grow our business.
as a member of the Nomination & Governance Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Her Nationality long association with Hull, the home of many of our Indian UKemployees, also brings an added perspective.
Nationality British 56 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Our Board of Directors continued ERIK ENGSTROM 55 ROBIN FREESTONE 60 MARC OWEN 59 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director in Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director January 2015 and Member of the Audit Committee.
and Member of the Audit Committee and the and Member of the Audit Committee in October He will join the Nomination & Governance Remuneration Committee in September 2015 and 2017 and Member of the Compliance & Culture Committee in April 2019.
Chair of the Audit Committee in April 2017.
Robin will Committee in March 2018.
He will be appointed succeed Ian Barlow as Senior Independent Director chair of the Compliance & Culture Committee in Career and experience following the AGM on 11April 2019 and join the April 2019.
Erik is a graduate of the Stockholm School of Nomination & Governance Committee.
Career and experience Economics BSc and of the Royal Institute of Career and experience Technology in Stockholm MSc.
In 1988, he Marc graduated from Oxford University with a graduated with an MBA from Harvard Business Robin graduated with a BA in Economics from BA and BCL in Law.
In 1984 he was called to the School as a Fulbright Scholar.
Erik commenced his TheUniversity of Manchester and later qualified Bar, following four years at Corpus Christi College career at McKinsey & Company and then worked and commenced his career as a Chartered Cambridge as a fellow and director of studies in law.
in publishing, latterly as President and COO of Accountant at Deloitte.
He has held a number of He decided upon a corporate career and undertook Random House Inc. and as President and CEO of senior financial positions throughout his career, an MBA at Stanford University.
Marc commenced Bantam Doubleday Dell, North America.
In 2001, including at ICI plc, Henkel Ltd and at Amersham his healthcare and technology career at McKinsey he moved on to be a partner at General Atlantic plc.
Robin was the Deputy CFO and then later the & Company where he progressed to senior partner Partners, a private equity investment firm.
Between CFO of Pearson plc between 2006 and August and eventually a founding partner of McKinseys 2004 and 2009, he was CEO of Elsevier, the division 2015, where he was heavily involved with the Business Technology Office.
In September 2001, specialising in scientific andmedical information transformation and diversification of Pearson.
Marc joined McKesson Corporation and served and then from 2009 CEOof RELX Group.
Hewas previously NED at eChem Ltd, Chair of the as Executive Vice President and member of the 100 Group and Senior Independent Director and Executive Committee.
He delivered strategic Skills and competencies Chair of the Audit Committee ofCable & Wireless objectives and led over 40 acquisitions and Erik has successfully reshaped RELX Groups Communications plc.
Robin is NED and Chair of the divestments over a 10-year period.
In late 2011 he business in terms of portfolio and geographies.
Audit Committee at Capri Holdings Ltd, formerly headed Mckesson Speciality Health, which operates Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. Robin became Chair over 130 cancer centres across the US and provides He brings a deep understanding of how technology of the ICAEWCorporate Governance Committee services including market intelligence, supply can be used to transform a business and insight in2017 and is currently a NED and Chair of the Audit chain services, patient access to therapy, provider into the development of new commercial models Committee at MoneySupermarket.
Robin andpatient engagement and clinical trial support.
His experience will be appointed as Chair of their Board with effect His final executive role came in 2014 where he was as a CEO of a globalcompany gives him valuable from the conclusion of its Annual General Meeting appointed Chair of the European Management insights asamember of our Audit and Nomination & on 9 May 2019.
He retired in March 2017 once Governance Committees.
he had improved operations, setthe strategy and Skills and competencies recruited his successor.
Nationality Robin has been a well-regarded FTSE 100 Swedish Skills and competencies CFO who has not only been heavily involved with transformation and diversification, but Marc is a proven leader with an astute, strategic also thehealthcare industry at Amersham, vision, capable of building significant international where hisacquisition experience is of value healthcare businesses.
He has strong commercial to Smith&Nephew as it continues to grow healthcare expertise which the Board values globally andin different markets.
He brings deeply and makes him ideally placed to Chair the financial expertise and insight as Chair of the Compliance & Culture Committee.
AuditCommittee and an understanding of how Nationality toattract and retain talent in a global business asamember of the Remuneration Committee.
British Nationality British 57 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Our Board of Directors continued DIRECTORS WHO SERVED DURING2018 RETIRING AT ANNUALGENERAL MEETING ANGIE RISLEY 60 IAN BARLOW 67 SUSAN SWABEY 57 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director Joined Smith & Nephew in May 2009 as Company Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director in September 2017 and appointed Chair of the Secretary with responsibility for Board support and in March 2010, Chairman now Member of the Remuneration Committee on 12 April 2018. corporate governance, employee and executive Audit Committee in May 2010, Member of the share plans and subsidiary governance.
In 2016, Compliance & Culture Committee in October Career and experience she also assumed responsibility for leading the 2014 and Senior Independent Director and After graduating from Exeter University, and groups risk management programme.
She is Member of theNomination & Governance completing a 1-year personnel management based in Watford.
Ian will retire from the programme, Angie joined the United Biscuits Board at the Annual General Meeting on 11 April Career and experience graduate scheme.
After working in various different 2019 and willnot stand for re-election.
HR roles she joined Pizza Hut UK Ltd as Human Susan has over 30 years experience as a Career and experience Resources Director, a joint venture between PepsiCo Company Secretary in a wide range of companies and Whitbread plc.
After five years she joined Ian is a Chartered Accountant with considerable including Prudential plc, Amersham plc and Whitbread, becoming Executive Director on the financial experience both internationally and RMCGroup plc.
Her work has covered board plc board responsible for HR and Corporate Social in the UK.
He was a Partner at KPMG, latterly support, corporate governance, remuneration, Responsibility in 2004.
Between 20072013 she was Senior Partner, London, until 2008.
At KPMG, corporate transactions, group risk management, the Group HR Director for Lloyds Banking Group, he was Head of UK tax and legal operations.
share registration, listing obligations, corporate joining J Sainsbury plc as Group HRD in January Previously he was Chairman of WSP Group plc, social responsibility, pensions, insurance and 2013.
Over the years, Angie has been a member of and is currently NED and Chairman of the Audit employee and executive share plans.
the Low Pay Commission and has held a number Committees of TheBrunner Investment Trust Susan holds an MA from Corpus Christi College of Non-Executive Directorships with Biffa plc, Arriva PLC, Foxtons Group plc and Urban&Civic plc.
Oxford in Literae Humaniores and is a Fellow and Serco Group plc, and now Smith & Nephew.
of the Institution of Chartered Secretaries: At Serco she was the Chair of the Remuneration The Governance Institute.
She is also Chair of Committee.
Previously she has attended ShareGift, the share donation charity, a member MICHAEL FRIEDMAN 75 Remuneration Committees of Whitbread, Lloyds of the Financial Reporting Council Lab Steering Banking Group, Arriva and attends Sainsburys Independent Non-Executive Director Group and a frequent speaker oncorporate today.
She is also a Non-Executive Director on the Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director governance and related matters.
in April 2013 and Chairman of the Compliance & Culture Committee in August 2014.
Michael will Skills and competencies be retiring from the Board at the Annual General Angie is a well-regarded FTSE 100 Human Meeting on 11 April 2019 and will not stand for Resources Director, proven Non-Executive Director re-election.
She has gained experience in a wide range of sectors, including a Career and experience regulated environment.
This diversity of experience Michael is medically trained, specialising in is welcomed by the Board and the Remuneration Internal Medicine and Medical Oncology.
Angie is also an additional resource and formerly CEO of City of Hope in California, and sounding board for Smith & Nephews own internal also served as Director of the institutions cancer Human Resources function.
He was formerly Senior VP of research, medical and public policy for Pharmacia Nationality Corporation and also Deputy Commissioner British and Acting Commissioner at the US Food and Drug Administration FDA.
He has served on a number of boards in a non-executive capacity and is currently a NED of Celgene Corporation, MannKind Corporation and Intuitive Surgical, Inc. 58 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Executive team Namal Nawana is supported intheday-to-day management of the Group by Graham Baker, ChiefFinancial Officer, and a strongteam ofExecutive Officers.
RODRIGO BIANCHI 58 BRAD CANNON 50 Interim President, Asia Pacifc President, Sports Medicine & ENT Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2013 with Joined Smith & Nephew in 2012 and has since been responsibility for Greater China, India, Russia, Asia, the President of Smith & Nephew's Europe and Middle East and Africa, focusing on continuing our Canada business, the Company's Chief Marketing strong momentum in these regions.
With effect from Officer, and now serves as the President of the 1 January 2016, Rodrigo also became responsible Global Sports Medicine and Ear, Nose and Throat for the Latin American, Australian, New Zealand and business.
His role was further expanded Skills and experience in May 2017, when he became responsible for oversight ofthe markets in Europe and Canada.
Brad was most recently the Chief Marketing Officer He is nowPresident of Asia Pacific.
He is based in and prior to that the President of Europe and Dubai, UAE.
Canada, where he successfully led the commercial business in those regions.
He has also served as Skills and experience the President of Global Orthopaedic Franchises, Rodrigos experience in the healthcare industry leading Smith & Nephews Reconstruction, includes 26 years with Johnson & Johnson in Endoscopy, Trauma and Extremities businesses.
Most recently, he was Prior to Smith & Nephew, Brad worked in Regional Vice President for the Medical Devices and Medtronics Spine and Biologics division.
Diagnostics division in the Mediterranean region From2009, he was responsible for Medtronics and prior to that President of Mitek and Ethicon, Inc. Spine International division and held positions He started his career at Procter & Gamble, Italy.
heading USsales and global commercial operations.
Brad is a graduate of Washington and Lee University, Nationality andthe Wharton School of Business at the Italian University ofPennsylvania.
Nationality American NEW COMMERCIAL MODEL: CREATION OF GLOBAL FRANCHISES Chief Executive Officer President of President, President President, President, Chief Financial President Chief Quality President Orthopaedics Sports of Advanced Europe, Middle Asia Pacific Office, GBS & IT of Global and Regulatory of Research & Medicine Wound East and Africa Operations Affairs Officer Development & ENT Management EVP, Business Chief Human Chief Legal & Development Resources Compliance & Corporate Officer Officer Affairs Specialist commercial role Generalist commercial role 59 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Executive team continued MASSIMILIANO COLELLA 50 PHIL COWDY 51 SIMON FRASER 51 President, Europe, Middle East and Africa Executive Vice President, Business President of Advanced Wound Management Joined Smith & Nephew in 2013 as Senior Vice Development & Corporate Affairs Joined Smith & Nephew in January 2019 with President for Mid-Tier Business based in Dubai, commercial leadership responsibility for Advanced Joined Smith & Nephew in 2008 as Director of Massimiliano Max to his colleagues and friends, Wound Management in the US and global upstream Investor Relations.
From 2010 his responsibility afterwards took over the role of SVP Smith & marketing for the Advanced Wound Management expanded as Head of Corporate Affairs, including Nephew AsiaPac in Singapore.
As part of his executive responsibilities media, investor relations, global brand and President Europe and Canada, he moved back Simon will also provide leadership for Healthcare government affairs, together with Strategic Planning.
He is now President of Europe, Systems.
Simon is based in Fort Worth, US.
Between 2015 and 2018 he was also responsible Middle East and Africa.
Massimiliano is based for IT.
In 2018 he took on additional responsibility for Skills and Experience inBaar, Switzerland.
Simon brings to this role more than 25 years Skills and experience Skills and experience of experience across medical devices, Over his 26 years spent in the medical device pharmaceuticals and diagnostics, including wound Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, Phil served as industry, Massimiliano has held a number management.
Importantly, he is a purpose-driven a senior Director at Deutsche Bank for 13years, of national and international roles in Europe, and accomplished business leader who has providing corporate finance and equitycapital Middle-East and Asia.
Before joining Smith & successfully managed large, global commercial markets advice to a variety of UK-based companies.
Nephew, Max worked for 21 years in Johnson & organisations with full P&L responsibility while He qualified as acharteredaccountant with EY.
Johnson, leading a number of different businesses growing business and earning market share.
Nationality in Ethicon and DePuy Synthes franchises.
Prior to joining Smith & Nephew Simon was Group British Vice President of Dentsply-Sironas Dental Implant Nationality Global Business Unit.
Prior to this Simon was Vice Italian President, US Commercial Infectious Diseases including corporate accounts at Abbott Laboratories.
Simon joined Abbott following theacquisition of Alere where he had three successful years as the President of Latin America.
Prior to these roles, Simon had a 15-year career with Johnson & Johnson, where he held increasingly senior commercial roles spanning surgical devices, wound management, implants and pharmaceuticals including both global strategic marketing and P&Lresponsibilities.
Nationality American Canadian 60 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Executive team continued MARK GLADWELL 43 MELISSA GUERDAN 44 SKIP KIIL 44 President of Global Operations Chief Quality and Regulatory Affairs Officer President of Orthopaedics Joined Smith & Nephew in August 2018 with Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2018 with Joined Smith & Nephew in November 2018 with responsibility for Global Manufacturing, Global responsibility for Quality and Regulatory Affairs global responsibility for the Orthopaedics franchise, Supply Chain, Global Procurement, Global andis based in Andover, US.
which includes Reconstruction, Trauma, Extremities Engineering and Global Operational Excellence, and Robotics.
Skip is based in Memphis, US.
Skills and Experience andall Operational Strategy and programmes Skills and Experience including APEX projects related to Global Melissa brings more than 20 years of leadership Operations.
experience in Quality and Regulatory Affairs Skip is a seasoned leader who brings a wealth of spanning the pharmaceutical, medical device global experience from diverse medical technology Skills and experience and biologics industries.
Melissa has deep companies, and importantly, significant global Mark joined Smith & Nephew from QIAGEN, compliance and operations knowledge and has experience in Orthopaedics markets over an aprovider of sample and assay technologies for progressed through senior leadership roles in global extended period.
Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, molecular diagnostics, applied testing, academic organisations including Pfizer, Baxter, Covidien Skip was most recently responsible for all Global and pharmaceutical research.
There he was Senior and Alere.
Most recently, Melissa was Senior Vice Commercial Operations at NuVasive and member Vice President of Global Operations responsible President, Quality and Regulatory for Alere where of the senior executive leadership team.
Prior to for global manufacturing, supply chain, quality she had executive responsibility for establishing this, Skip spent three years with Alcon, a division of assurance and control, regulatory affairs, and global enterprise vision, strategy and direction for all Novartis Corporation, based in Geneva, Switzerland, customer service.
aspects of quality, compliance and regulatory where he served as Surgical Head, Europe, Middle affairs.
Melissa is adept at inspiring diverse global East, Africa and Russia.
While at Alcon, Skip led Mark is a seasoned operational leader bringing organisations to achieve common goals and the successful commercial transformation of its more than 20 years of experience in progressively has consistently delivered material value at the $1.1bnsurgical business across both developed and senior operations roles across global organisations enterprise level through transformational quality emerging growth markets.
including DuPont, AGFA Medical Imaging, Johnson andregulatory improvement programmes.
& Johnson, and Alere Inc. Mark has experience Before joining Alcon, Skip had a successful 12-year of working and living in Europe and the US and Melissa holds a BAdegree in Biology and Psychology, career with Stryker Corporation, beginning in operating global manufacturing and supply and holds an MBA from DePaul University.
sales and holding progressively senior positions in chain organisations with a significant focus and commercial leadership in the US as well as in global Nationality track record in delivering operational excellence marketing.
Skip also had general management transformation programmes.
experience in Japan, as well as group leadership American responsibilities in Europe wherehe held the role of Nationality Vice President and General Manager of its Medical Surgical Group.
British Nationality American 61 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Executive team continued ELGA LOHLER 51 CATHY OROURKE 46 VASANT PADMANABHAN 52 Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Legal and Compliance Officer President of Research & Development Joined Smith & Nephew in January 2002 as Cathy joined Smith & Nephew in February 2013 Vasant joined Smith & Nephew in August 2016 and Directorof HR and has since held progressively and became Chief Legal Officer in May 2017 and is responsible for Research and Innovation, New senior positions in Wound Management, Operations, Chief Legal and Compliance Officer in July 2018.
Product Development, Safety Affairs, Clinical Affairs, Corporate Functions and Group.
Elga became Cathy heads up the Global Legal and Compliance Medical device Pharmacovigilance and Clinical Chief Human Resources Officer in December 2015 functions and is based in Andover, US.
and leads the Global Human Resources, Internal Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Communication and Sustainability Functions.
Elgaisbased in Fort Worth, US.
Prior to being appointed Chief Legal Officer, Vasant brings extensive experience in R&D and Cathyhad various responsibilities within Legal technology.
Prior to Smith & Nephew, Vasant was Skills and Experience as Assistant General Counsel Litigation and Senior Vice President of Technical Operations Elga has more than 25 years Human Resources Investigations.
Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, at Thoratec Corporation, a leader in mechanical experience.
Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, Cathy spent 11years of her career with Davis Polk circulatory support solutions for the treatment of Elga held Human Resources roles at Transnet, &Wardwell LLP.
In this role, he provided leadership to Sensormatic now Tyco and Advanced Tissue a 600 member team, with responsibility for global Cathy earned her Juris Doctorate in Law from Sciences, which was acquired by Smith & R&D, Programme Management, Operations and Harvard University.
Through these roles, Elga has Quality.
Prior to Thoratec, Vasant had an 18-year developed deep expertise in strategy planning career at Medtronic, starting as a Staff Scientist and, Nationality and development, organisational design and progressing through more senior roles, ultimately American effectiveness, restructuring and integration and becoming Vice President of Product Development transformational change in support of business for the Implantable Defibrillator Business.
In her current roles, Elga is responsible holds a Ph.
D degree in Biomedical Engineering from for driving Smith & Nephews human capital strategy Rutgers University, US and an MBA degree from across the enterprise in support of the company's theCarlson School of Management, Minnesota.
overall business plan and strategic direction.
Nationality Elga holds an undergraduate degree in Psychology American and a Masters degree in Organizational Psychology, both from the University of Witwatersrand in SouthAfrica.
Nationality American South African 62 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Roles and composition Whilst we all share collective responsibility for the activities of the Board, some of our roles have been defined in greater detail below.
CHAIR CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Building a well-balanced Board.
Supporting the Chief Executive Officer in developing and implementing the Group strategy.
Chairing Board meetings and setting Board agendas.
Leading the global finance function, developing key finance Ensuring effectiveness of the Board and enabling the annual review talent and planning for succession.
Ensuring effective financial reporting, processes and controls Encouraging constructive challenge and facilitating effective are in place.
Recommending the annual budget and long-term strategic Promoting effective Board relationships.
Ensuring appropriate induction and development programmes.
Ensuring effective two-way communication and debate with shareholders and stakeholders.
Promoting high standards of corporate governance.
Maintaining appropriate balance between stakeholders.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR COMPANY SECRETARY Developing and implementing Group Chairing meetings in the absence of the Chair.
Advising the Board on matters strategy.
Acting as a sounding board for the Chair Recommending the annual budget and onBoard-related matters.
Supporting the Chair and three-year strategic and financial plan.
Acting as an intermediary for the other Ensuring coherent leadership of the Group.
Point of contact for investors on matters ofcorporate governance.
Managing the Groups risk profile and Available to shareholders and stakeholders establishing effective internal controls.
on matters which cannot otherwise be Ensuring good governance practices at resolved.
Boardlevel and throughout the Group.
Regularly reviewing organisational structure, developing executive team and planning Leading the annual evaluation into the forsuccession.
Ensuring the Chair and Board are kept Leading the search for a new Chair, advised and updated regarding key matters.
Maintaining relationships with shareholders and advising the Board accordingly.
Setting the tone at the top with regard to compliance and sustainability matters.
Day-to-day running of the business.
63 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Corporate governance framework The Board is responsible to shareholders for approving the strategy of the Group, for overseeing the performance of the Group and evaluating and monitoring the management of risk.
Each member of the Board has access, collectively and individually, to the Company Secretary and is also entitled to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense, should they decide it is necessary in order to fulfil their responsibilities as Directors.
The Board delegates certain matters, as follows, to Board Committees, consisting of members of the Board: BOARD Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination & Compliance & Culture Ad hoc Committee Governance Committee committees Provides independent assessment of the Committee Determines Remuneration Reviews and monitors Ad hoc committees may be financial affairs of the Policy and packages for Reviews size and ethics and compliance, established to review and Company, reviews Executive Directors and composition of the quality and regulatory approve specific matters financial statements Executive Officers, having Board, succession matters across the Group.
and controls oversight regard to pay across planning, diversity and Role to be expanded in of the risk management the Group.
2019 to include oversight of process and key risks, culture, sustainability and such as cyber security.
Manages use of internal and external auditors.
PAGE 76 PAGE 84 PAGE 71 PAGE 74 The Board delegates the day-to-day running of the business to Namal Nawana, Chief Executive Officer, who is assisted in his role by the ExecutiveCommittee comprising the Executive team shown on pages 58-61.
The governance framework below outlines the Executive Committee arrangements as follows: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee meets regularly and makes decisions collectively.
It recommends and implements strategy, recommends budget and three-year plan to the Board for approval, ensures liaison between commercial and corporate functions, receives regular reports from sub-committees, reviews major investments, divestment and capital expenditure proposals and approves business development projects.
Monthly Operating Review Franchise, Functional Portfolio Innovation Board Group Ethics & Compliance Wider group of senior commercial andRegional Defines portfolio allocation Committee and financial leaders reviews LeadershipMeetings principles, reviewing and Reviews compliance matters and monthly commercial and marketing challenging current shape of Senior management meetings to country business unit or function and operating results against portfolio, identifying gaps and drive performance across each compliance reports.
budget, identifying gaps and opportunities and re-prioritising franchise, function and region.
Finance & Banking Committee Disclosures Committee Mergers & Acquisitions IT Governance Board Approves banking and treasury Approves release of Investment Committee Oversees IT and cyber security.
matters, guarantees, Group communications toinvestors and Oversees Corporate Development structure changes relating Stock Exchanges.
Strategy, monitors status of to mergers, acquisitions transactions and approves various anddisposals.
stages in merger, acquisition and disposal process.
Diversity & Inclusion Council Global Benefts Committee Health, Safety & Environment Committee Implements strategies to promote Oversees all policies and diversity and inclusion.
processes relating to pensions and Oversees health, safety and employee benefit plans.
64 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Responsibilities of the Board Board timetable 2018 January Early February Late February April May June July September October December 2017 Preliminary 2017 Financial Annual General Q1 2018 H1 2018 Site visit Q3 Trading Strategic Results Statements Meeting toBerlin Report Planning STRATEGY STRATEGY Approving the Group strategy including major changes to corporate and management structure.
Approved Strategic Reviewed capital Approved Considered the Update on Approved the Plan for 20182020 allocation policies re-financing of Companys organisational strategic plan Approving acquisitions, mergers, disposals, capital transactions in excess of $50 million.
therevolving credit organisational change for 20192021 Approved Reviewed report on Setting priorities for capital investment across the Group.
facility design 2018Budget post acquisitions Approved the Approving annual budget, financial plan, three-year business plan.
reviews Considered budget for 2019 Approving major borrowings and finance and banking arrangements.
the Companys Approving changes to the size and structure of the Board and the appointment and removal strategic focus of Directors and the Company Secretary.
Approving Group policies relating to sustainability, health and safety, Code of Conduct and Code of Share Dealing and other matters.
Approving the appointment and removal of key professional advisers.
PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE Reviewing performance against strategy, budgets and financial and business plans.
Reviewed financial Reviewed financial Received report Reviewed financial Reviewed financial Reviewed financial performance performance from new Chief performance, performance and performance Overseeing Group operations and maintaining a sound system of internal control.
Executive operating review global operations Received update Received updates Received update Determining the dividend policy and dividend recommendations.
Officer on first and scorecards on European business on global on Medical Approving the appointment and removal of the external auditor on the recommendation impressions operations Devices global of the Audit Committee.
market Approving significant changes to accounting policies or practices.
Overseeing succession planning at Board and Executive Officer level.
Approving the use of the Companys shares in relation to employee and executive share incentive plans on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS Approving preliminary announcement of annual results, the publication of the Annual Report, Approved Preliminary Approved the: Prepared for the Approved Approved Considered Approved Q3 2018 the half-yearly report, the quarterly Trading Reports, the release of price sensitive announcements Announcement 2017 Annual General Q1 2018 H1 2018 report on investor Trading Report Annual Report and any listing particulars, circulars or prospectuses.
Meeting to be Trading Report and media Considered payment for 2017 Results heldlater that day perspectives Approving the Sustainability Report.
of final dividend Announcement Notice of the Maintaining relationships and continued engagement with shareholders.
AnnualGeneral Meeting Sustainability Report 2017 RISK RISK Overseeing the Groups risk management programme.
Approved Reviewed update Reviewed risk Annual Risk on Brexit management Regularly reviewing the risk register.
Management programme Overseeing risk management processes see pages 41-49 for further details.
Report aspart of strategyreview PROVIDING ADVICE PROVIDING ADVICE Using experience gained within other companies and organisations to advise management both within and between Board meetings on an ad hoc basis.
OTHER MATTERS OTHER MATTERS Reviewed Approved the Reviewed results Non-Executive terms of the of external board Director Fees Directors and effectiveness Officers Liability review and agreed Insurance follow up actions The Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board describes the role and responsibilities of the Board more fully and can be found on our website at www.
com 65 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Responsibilities of the Board continued Board timetable 2018 January Early February Late February April May June July September October December 2017 Preliminary 2017 Financial Annual General Q1 2018 H1 2018 Site visit Q3 Trading Strategic Results Statements Meeting toBerlin Report Planning STRATEGY STRATEGY Approving the Group strategy including major changes to corporate and management structure.
com 66 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Our approach to stakeholders EMPLOYEES The Board regularly takes the opportunity to meet with staff at all levels in the organisation when making site visits across our operations.
Regular staff surveys are undertaken, which the Board reviews and follows up on outcomes.
The Compliance & Culture Committee reviews certainworkplace policies and whistle-blowing incidents, ensuring that appropriate follow up is implemented as necessary.
We ensure that whenmaking strategic decisions the impact upon our employees is fully considered.
Actions during 2018 Actions planned for 2019 The Board reviewed and discussed the results of the Culture Survey The Board will continue to consider the impact on employees when and focus forums initiated by Namal Nawana, Chief Executive Officer making strategic decisions.
We will continue to take opportunities to meet staff at all levels across We actively debated and approved the culture pillars of Care, the organisation when conducting site visits.
We plan to visit our Collaboration and Courage, which will underpin our purpose and Memphis facility in 2019. corporate strategy.
The Compliance & Culture Committee formerly Ethics & Compliance We met with key employees on our site visit to Berlin in September and Committee will assume responsibility for overseeing our corporate some of us have undertaken additional site visits and spent time on the culture and workplace policies and will reportback regularly to the road with our sales representatives.
The Ethics & Compliance Committee reviewed our policies on sexual In listening to the employee voice, we have decided not to appoint harassment.
an employee director or to nominate a single designated NonExecutive Director.
Instead, we have designated our Compliance & In making decisions regarding organisational change and the APEX Culture Committee as a whole with the responsibility for engaging programme, we have considered the impact on employees, ensuring with employees.
This programme of employee engagement will be that all are treated fairly and with respect.
The Chief Executive Officer and senior management hold quarterly The Board will continue to monitor the outcomes from employee webcasts for the workforce, which encourage employee engagement surveys and forums.
CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS The Board receives regular updates at Board meetings from the management team on relationships with our key customers and suppliers andhow these relationships are evolving as we respond to different market conditions and environments.
We also take the opportunity tomeet with key customers during our site visits.
Actions during 2018 Actions planned for 2019 As part of our country visit to Germany, we visited La Charit Hospital The Board will continue to receive management updates on our in Berlin, which is the largest University hospital in Germany.
We met customers and suppliers.
with surgeons who used our products and also the Chief Executive We will meet with customers and surgeons when we visit our whooutlined some of the challenges in the German market.
A number of us accompanied sales representatives in the UK, The Compliance & Culture Committee will assume responsibility for USandSwitzerland as they met with customers and surgeons overseeing relationships with our key stakeholders including customers whousedour products.
During the course of the year, we received management updates on different areas of the business.
These included presentations on the management of our supply chain, and the changing market environment and expectations from our customers.
67 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Our approach to stakeholders continued INVESTORS The Board meets with retail investors at the Annual General Meeting and responds to letters and emails from shareholders throughout theyear.
Members of the Board are always happy to engage with investors, if they have matters they wish to raise with the non-executive team.
The Chair and other Board members report back to the Board following their meetings with investors.
A short report on our major shareholders and any signifcant changes in their holdings since the previous meeting is reviewed at each Board meeting.
Copies of the analyst reports on theCompany and its peers are also circulated to Directors.
Actions during 2018 Actions planned for 2019 The Executive Directors held 124 meetings with investors representing The Board will continue to receive regular updates at Board meetings 43.8% of the Companys share capital.
They discussed a range of topics onmanagement and Chair meetings with investors and will review including strategy, performance and organisational structure.
The Chair, Roberto Quarta, held 7 meetings and telephone calls The management team and the Chair and Non-Executive Directors will with investors holding approximately 12.6% of the Companys share continue to engage with shareholders.
If you have matters to raise with capital.
They discussed a range of topics including the performance thenon-executive team, please contact the Company Secretary.
of the Company, the appointment of Namal Nawana as our new Chief Executive Officer, our Strategy, the structure of the Board and succession planning at Board and Executive level.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Angie Risley reached out to our top 20 shareholders holding 44% of the companys shares and received responses from 9 shareholders collectively holding 17.1% of the companys share capital in connection with Graham Bakers pay followinghis increased responsibility for IT and Global Business Services.
See page 85 for further details.
GOVERNMENTS AND REGULATORS In many countries, our principal customers are governments, who purchase our products for their national health systems.
It is important that we maintain good relationships with governments so that we continue to develop cost efficient solutions to their national healthcare issues.
We operate in a heavily regulated industry and our businesses across the world are regulated by many different authorities indifferent jurisdictions.
Our Compliance & Culture Committee has for a number of years overseen our relationships with our key regulators, particularly in areas of ethics, compliance and quality.
Actions during 2018 Actions planned for 2019 The Compliance & Culture Committee received regular reports from the The Compliance & Culture Committee will continue to oversee Quality and Regulatory function on regulatory activities and the results relationships between the Company and our regulators.
The Board and the Audit Committee will continue to monitor The Compliance & Culture Committee received regular reports from the  for Brexit.
Legal & Compliance function on the activities of key agencies relating to ethics and compliance matters.
The Board received regular updates from the business areas on the pricing challenges faced by the business when dealing with governments operating with limited financial resources.
The Board and the Audit Committee received regular updates relating to the progress towards Brexit and management plans to manage the transition as smoothly as possible.
68 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Responsibilities of the Board If any Director becomes aware of any situation which might give rise BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE Board Committee to a conflict of interest, they must, and do, inform the rest of the Board Nominations Compliance immediately and the Board is then permitted under the Companys Articles Audit Remuneration & Governance & Culture of Association to authorise such conflict.
This information is then recorded Total meetings 10 8 5 4 4 in the Companys Register of Conflicts, together with the date on which Appointed authorisation was given.
In addition, each Director certifies on an annual Roberto Quarta December 2013 10 10 5 5 3 4 basis that the information contained in the Register of Conflicts is correct.
Olivier Bohuon April 2011 5 5 When the Board decides whether or not to authorise a conflict, only the Graham Baker March 2017 10 10 Directors who have no interest in the matter are permitted to participate in Vinita Bali December 2014 10 10 5 5 4 4 the discussion and a conflict is only authorised if the Board believes that it March 2010 10 10 7 8 4 4 4 4 Ian Barlow would not have an impact on the Boards ability to promote the success of April 2012 10 10 5 5 4 4 Virginia Bottomley the Company in the long term.
Additionally, the Board may determine that 4 1 March 2018 7 7 5 6 Roland Diggelmann certain limits or conditions must be imposed when giving authorisation.
January 2015 10 10 8 8 Erik Engstrom No actual conflicts have been identified, which have required approval September 2015 10 10 8 8 5 5 2 2 Robin Freestone by the Board.
However, eight situations have been identified which could April 2013 10 10 4 4 Michael Friedman potentially give rise to a conflict of interest and these have been duly Namal Nawana 7 May 2018 5 5 - authorised by the Board and are reviewed on an annual basis.
Marc Owen October 2017 10 10 8 8 3 3 6 Joseph Papa August 2008 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 OUTSIDE DIRECTORSHIPS Angie Risley September 2017 10 10 5 5 We encourage our Executive Directors to serve as Non-Executive Directorsof external companies.
We believe that the work they do as 1 Roberto Quarta missed one Nomination & Governance Committee meeting on 11 April 2018 because of another commitment.
Non-Executive Directors of other companies has benefits for their 2 Olivier Bohuon retired from the Board on 7 May 2018. executive roles with the Company, giving them a fresh insight into the role 3 Ian Barlow missed one AuditCommittee meeting on 11 April 2018 in order toattend a funeral.
Namal Nawana is an independent Director 4 Roland Diggelmann was appointed on 1 March 2018.
He missed one AuditCommittee meeting on24 July 2018 because of another commitment scheduled before his appointment.
ofHologic Inc. Namal discussed his external role with the Chairprior to his 5 Namal Nawana was appointed on 7 May 2018 andattended all hisscheduled meetings appointment and the Chair was satisfied that he had the capacity for the to31December 2018. time commitment required.
Suitable arrangements were put in place when 6 Joseph Papa retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 12 April 2018. reaching a settlement with Hologic related to historical intellectual property litigation to ensure that Namal was not party to any of the negotiations or discussions, which could have given rise to an actual conflict.
INDEPENDENCE OF DIRECTORS We require our Non-Executive Directors to remain independent from RE-APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS management so that they are able to exercise independent oversight In accordance with the Code, all Directors offer themselves to shareholders and effectively challenge management.
We therefore continually assess for re-election annually, except those who are retiring immediately after the the independence of each of our Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors have determined that all our Non-Executive Directors are Annual General Meeting.
Each Director may beremoved at any time by the independent in accordance with both UK and US requirements.
None of Board or the shareholders.
our Non-Executive Directors or their immediate families has ever had a material relationship with the Group.
None of them receives additional DIRECTOR INDEMNITY ARRANGEMENTS remuneration apart from Directors fees, nor do they participate in the Each Director is covered by appropriate directors and officers liability Groups share plans or pension schemes.
None of them serve as directors insurance and there are also Deeds of Indemnity in place between the of any companies or affiliates in which any other Director is a director.
These Deeds of Indemnity mean thatthe Company indemnifies Directors in respect of any proceedings brought MANAGEMENT OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST by third parties against them personally in their capacity as Directors of the Company.
The Company would also fund ongoing costs in defending None of our Directors or their connected persons, has any family a legal action as they are incurred rather than after judgement has been relationship with any other Director or Officer, nor has a material interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are, orwere, given.
In the event of an unsuccessful defence inan action against them, aparty during the year or up to 15 February 2019. individual Directors would be liable to repay the Company for any damages and to repay defence costs to the extentfunded by the Company.
Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which they have or may have a direct or indirect interest that PURCHASE OF ORDINARY SHARES conflicts or might conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is In order to avoid shareholder dilution, shares allotted to employees through inaddition to the existing duty owed to the Company to disclose to the employee share schemes are bought back on a quarterly basis and Board any interest in a transaction or arrangement under consideration subsequently cancelled as stated in Note 19.2 of the accounts on page 172. bythe Company.
69 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Board effectiveness review The Board effectiveness review in 2018 was externally facilitated by Dr RECOMMENDATION 1 Tracy Long of Boardroom Review.
Dr Long interviewed each member of the Board and the Company Secretary, reviewed minutes, Board papers The Board will need to ensure that it continually reviews and ensures and other Board documents, and attended and observed the Board alignment of its appetite for risk against the changing landscape and revised StrategicImperatives, particularly asthe Company continued and Committee meetings held in October 2018.
This will require continued monitoring of Board composition report summarising her findings, which she presented to the Board for and succession planning.
FINDINGS RECOMMENDATION 2 Overall she observed that the Board had many strengths, was Performance management will need to evolve to monitor alignment with effective with a diversity of perspectives and was an open supportive the new strategy, with an increased emphasis onaglobally consistent environment.
It was led by a strong Chair, the Chief Executive Officer culture and purpose.
and Chief Financial Officer were both highly regarded and recent appointments had strengthened the Boards domain knowledge.
RECOMMENDATION 3 Finance, risk and governance controls were working well and corporateculture was openly discussed at Board level.
The workload, composition and support for the Board Committees will be reviewed to ensure a more even balance of workload and greater RECOMMENDATIONS diversity on each Committee.
She did note however that there were challenges ahead, given the number of initiatives underway across the Company to lift performance, RECOMMENDATION 4 the recent appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer, a refreshed The Chair and Chief Executive Officer will agree shared priorities for management team and the development of new Strategic Imperatives, Board site visits at the beginning of each year, so that individual and Purpose and Culture Pillars.
There would be additional work for the group site visits could be arranged within these agreed parameters Board in coming months to get behind the new strategy and develop rather than on an ad hoc basis.
ashared perspective on the future strategy and appetite for risk.
The Board accepted the recommendations and an action plan is being developed to address them.
The areas for attention identifed in the 2017 review have been addressed as follows: Actions identifed Action taken Changes could be made to the Board calendar to spread our work more During the year, the Board and Committee calendar for the year has efficiently and effectively throughout the year, with an even greater focus beenreviewed and updated and a revised rolling calendar has been onpeople issues, R&D and commercial execution.
prepared for 2019, aligned to the new Group strategy and the updated Strategic Imperatives.
We would like to spend more time on our site visits meeting the local The Board site visit to Berlin in September 2018 incorporated meetings teams, their staff, our customers and local hospitals to give us a with the German management team and a visit to La Charite, the largest deeper understanding of our markets, our customers and competition, university hospital in Germany to meet with surgeons and hospital staff.
andtoassist in assessing bench strength further down the Company.
This helped us gain a deeper understanding of the views and needs of ourcustomers.
Further improvements could be made to how we monitor performance During the year, we have evolved the way reports on performance are against our strategic objectives, tracking development and implementation presented to the Board.
Going forward, performance reports will be aligned of our strategy, and lessons learned from our successes and shortfalls.
with the new Strategy and Strategic Imperatives.
The reviews in 2019 and 2020 will be facilitated internally and led by the Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary.
The 2021 review will also be .
70 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Leadership Board development operate around the world helps us to make effective investment and BOARD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME strategic decisions.
Meeting our local managers also helps us when Our Board Development Programme is directed to the specific needs making succession planning decisions below Board level.
and interests of our Directors.
We focus the development sessions on facilitating a greater awareness and understanding of our business All Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit our overseas rather than formal training in what it is to be a Director.
We value our businesses, if they happen to be travelling for other purposes.
Our local visits to the different Smith & Nephew sites around the world, where management teams enjoy welcoming Non-Executive Directors to we meet with the local managers of our businesses and see the their business and it emphasises the interest the Board takes in all daily operations in action.
Meeting our local managers helps us to our operations.
The Chair regularly reviews the development needs understand the challenges they face and their plans to meet those ofindividual Directors and the Board as a whole.
We also take these opportunities to look at our products The following development sessions covering the Smith & Nephew and in particular the new products being developed by our R&D teams.
business and wider market issues were held during the year: This direct contact with the business in the locations in which we June September October December 2018 PROGRAMME The Board received an overview Visit to Germany to meet with our Presentation from Deloitte LLP to Presentations from the entire fromthe new Chief Executive local management team and to visit La the Remuneration Committee on Executiveteam as part of the Officer on his first impressions of Charit, the largest university hospital the changes to be made to the role Boardsannual Strategy Review, the Company and his proposals in Germany and one of our significant of the Committee in light of the new covering the whole business.
The Board received UKCorporate Governance Code.
presentations from local surgeons and Presentation by the Company members of the hospitals executive Secretary to the Audit Committee team about thechallenges faced in Nomination & Governance theGerman healthcare market and Committee on the changes required roleplayed bySmith & Nephew.
by the UK Corporate Governance The Board received updates from Code totheroles and structure new members of the Executive team .
on their first impressions on joining Presentation to the Board by McKinsey the Company and their plans for the on the current environmentand trends EMEA business, Global Operations in the Medical Devices industry.
The Board received updates from the Executive team on Investor and Media coverage, and the results of the culture survey and focus groups carried out earlier inthesummer.
Visits to our sites local to the Director in UK, US and Switzerland to get INDUCTION PROGRAMME FOR NEW DIRECTORS afeel of how our research and manufacturing operations are run: During 2018, Roland Diggelmann joined the Board.
He and AngieRisley and Marc Owen continued to receive tailored induction programmes Opportunities to accompany our sales representatives in the US relevant to their skills and experiences and their roles on the Board.
ontheroad to better understand the daily challenges they face: and These induction programmes included: Meetings with our external advisers for example Freshfields, our Corporate lawyers, KPMG, our Auditor, and Deloitte LLP, One-to-one meetings with senior executives to understand the roles ourRemuneration Committee adviser to explain the legal and played by our senior employees and specifically how we do things at regulatory background to their role on our Board and how these Smith & Nephew: issuesare approached at Smith & Nephew.
