83 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements AUDIT COMMITTEE I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report for FY2018.
The Committee fulfils an important oversight role on behalf of the Board, monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and the effectiveness of both the Groups systems of internal control and its risk management framework.
A key stakeholder in supporting this oversight is the Groups external auditor, PwC, so in addition to fulfilling its normal programme of work the MARK SELIGMAN Committee has focused on the external Chair of the Audit Committee audit tender we described in last years Annual Report.
The tender process is ongoing and we hope to be able to make a IN ORDER TO FULFIL ITS With the Groups return to growth recommendation to the Board during the ROLE THE COMMITTEE and the challenges and risks faced calendar year.
During FY2018, to further support our oversight, we have also by the business, the Committee Holds four scheduled meetings a year to coincide with key dates received independent third-party reports plays a key role in overseeing the on important elements of our internal within the financial reporting integrity of the Companys and audit cycle.
With effect from control environment.
More details can be financial statements.
FY2019, the Committee has agreed to hold an additional fifth meeting The Committee has also considered ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE each year to help accommodate its the way it operates.
Previously, at each increasing risk agenda meeting the Committee received a report The principal role of the Committee Receives presentations from from the Chief Financial Officer and PwC.
is to assist the Board in fulfilling its divisional and functional heads to However, as an enhancement in FY2018 oversight responsibilities in relation to gain an understanding of the risks these reports were integrated such that financial reporting, financial controls and culture present throughout the Committee now receives a single and audit, risk and internal controls.
the organisation report on the Groups financial controls, The Committee also manages the approach to reporting and related audit Has access to information relationship with the external auditor, matters.
This allows the Committee to and advice from within Smiths including making recommendations more easily identify and challenge the and externally, including the to the Board and our shareholders issues in hand with the views of both opportunity to seek external in relation to the reappointment of the management and the external auditor in professional advice external auditor.
Meets privately with internal The Committee also oversees the We have agreed to schedule another and external audit after each Groups ethics and compliance annual Committee meeting each year to allow Committee meeting work programme and investigates any greater opportunity to review the Groups material ethics and compliance issues Conducts an annual review of its risk framework and to discuss with senior that may arise.
performance and its Terms of employees the arrangements in place to Reference, and recommends any mitigate principal risks.
changes to the Board Finally, Id like to thank my colleagues on the Committee for their contribution during the year and I look forward to continuing our work in FY2019.
MARK SELIGMAN CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 84 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES CONTINUED The Director of Internal Audit, the Senior examined key points of disclosure and Committee membership Vice-President & General Counsel presentation to ensure the adequacy, and meetings Ethics & Compliance and PwC have direct clarity and completeness of the 2018 The Committee met four times during access to the Committee should they Annual Report and Accounts and the FY2018, with three meetings timed to wish to raise any concerns outside formal half yearly results announcement: align with the financial reporting and audit Committee meetings.
reviewed various materials to support cycles of the Group, namely: the approval the statements on risk management and of the Annual Report and Accounts in The Chair of the Audit Committee internal control: going concern: and the September: the approval of the half yearly reports formally to the full Board on the assessment of the Groups long-term results in March: and the presentation activities of the Committee after each viability see pages 5059 and 68 for of the pre-year-end early warnings Committee meeting.
more details: and report from the external auditor, PwC, Financial and narrative reporting in July.
A meeting was also held in May assessed the processes and activities The Committee is responsible for 2018 at which the Committee undertook a undertaken by the Group in order to reviewing the half yearly results deep-dive of the Groups arrangements in ensure that the Annual Report when announcements and the Annual Report respect of cyber risk.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and and Accounts before recommending them understandable and concluded that All members of the Committee who to the Board for approval.
the quality and range of information served during the year are, in the view of During the year, the Group has had provided in the Annual Report was the Board, independent non-executive internal control and risk management sufficient to enable shareholders to Directors and collectively have recent and arrangements in place to support assess properly the Groups position, relevant financial, accounting and sector the financial reporting process and performance, business model experience gained from the Directors provide reasonable assurance that the and strategy.
respective international business financial statements are prepared in activities.
Individual Committee member In assessing the fairness, balance and accordance with applicable standards.
biographies and attendance at meetings understandability of the Annual Report, These arrangements include seeking during the year can be found on pages 72 the Committee considered: divisional confirmation that their reported 75 and 76 respectively.
In particular, the the accuracy and integrity of the information gives a true and fair view of Board considers that Mark Seligman who messages conveyed in the report: the the results for the period and ensuring has a long history in corporate finance and appropriateness of the level of detail in that record keeping allows an accurate experience of other listed company audit the narrative reporting: the correlation and fair reflection of transactions.
committees, as well as being a qualified between the judgements and issues For the period under review the accountant, has the recent and relevant and the disclosures and estimation Committee has: financial experience required to Chair of uncertainties: the Committee.
considered information presented by the consistency between the narrative management on significant matters At the invitation of the Chair of the reporting in the front half and the of judgement, accounting estimates Committee and in order to maintain financial reporting in the back half and the interpretation of reporting effective communications, the Chairman, of the report: standards in the adoption of policies.
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer the explanations of the differences The Committee is required to report to attended all meetings.
Other regular between statutory and headline shareholders on the process it follows attendees who advised the Committee reported results: and in its review of significant estimates and included: the Group Financial Controller, the design and layout of information and judgemental issues.
These are set out the Director of Internal Audit, the Group on page 85: data: the clarity of the reporting and Director of Tax and Treasury, the Senior messages conveyed: and the holistic considered changes to accounting Vice-President & General Counsel nature and tone of the report.
standards and agreed the Ethics & Compliance, the Company appropriateness of accounting policies: Secretary and audit partners of PwC.
Following its review the Committee Other members of senior management agreed that the Annual Report is discussed with PwC its audit reports were also invited to attend as appropriate.
and noted the key accounting matters representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced and understandable and significant judgements highlighted At the conclusion of meetings, PwC and by PwC in respect of each set of overview, providing the necessary the Director of Internal Audit were each information for shareholders to assess financial statements: given the opportunity to discuss matters the Groups position, performance, with the Committee without executive business model and strategy.
85 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS AND ISSUES An important responsibility of the Committee is to review and agree the most significant management judgements and issues which impact the financial statements.
The key areas of judgement in the year were as follows: Revenue recognition Acquisitions and divestments Inc. asbestos litigation.
In the case of the John Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation, The Committee reviewed progress The Committee reviewed the final fairthe Committee also agreed with the toward the adoption of IFRS 15 value adjustments to the acquisition judgement that, whilst large numbers Revenue from Contracts with balance sheet for Morpho Detection of claims are made against John Crane, Customers including the interpretation and agreed the treatment for deferred Inc. and other defendants every year, judgements made in drafting the consideration which has been recognised trials are extremely rare such that a Groups revenue recognition policies.
The accounting sufficiently reliable estimate cannot Attention was also given to the weighting treatment of the disposal of John be made to cover the full period over of profits toward the final quarter of Cranes Bearings business included the which it is expected that costs will be the year and in particular the timing judgement that, due to the immaterial incurred.
In both these cases, it was of shipments to distributors and scale of the transaction, the disposal did determined that the assumptions fairly customers.
The Committee oversaw not meet the criteria to be classified as a reflect the position.
See note 22 of the the implementation of a new control discontinued operation.
process designed to ensure revenue was of the heating element division of Osram accounted for correctly.
The treatment of Sylvania Inc. and Seebach GmbH were Taxation one-off items generating non-recurring also considered and particular attention The assets and liabilities recognised profit was also considered.
was paid to the fair value of assets and in income and deferred tax, as well as liabilities acquired and the resulting Impairment the treatment of losses in the UK were goodwill.
The Committee also considered assessed.
Particular focus was given to The intangible assets and the the treatment of costs between headline the recognition of UK deferred tax assets assumptions used to justify their carrying and non-headline.
which are judged to be recoverable: values, including fair value less costs Working capital deferred tax assets relating to the John to sell were reviewed.
Following the Crane, Inc. asbestos provision: and the integration of Morpho Detection and Judgements within working capital, Titeflex Corporation CSST provision.
Smiths Detection, particular attention including the level of inventory and In reviewing projected profit streams was given to the combined business provisions and overdue receivables the Committee was satisfied that, where being treated as a single cash generating particularly in emerging markets were appropriate, the relevant entities will unit CGU.
The Committee reviewed generate sufficient future taxable profits Subsystems CGU was also considered, progress toward adoption of IFRS 9 to utilise the assets recognised.
See note along with the proposal to consolidate Financial instruments including the 6 of the financial statements.
Interconnects Microwave Subsystems impact of adopting an expected credit and Connectors & Components CGUs loss model for receivables provisioning.
Post-retirement benefits into a single CGU for impairment See the Accounting Policies section of the The Committee reviewed and agreed the testing.
The carrying value of capitalised financial statements.
methods, assumptions and benchmarks development expenditure was reviewed Provisions for liabilities and charges used by the actuaries to calculate the and the treatment was considered position of the UK and US schemes at The Committee continued to monitor reasonable due to the planned timing 31 July 2018, which have continued to expert assessments on the Groups of new product launches and projected show a net accounting surplus position.
exposure to the John Crane, Inc. future cash-flows.
The Committee The Committee agreed the treatment asbestos litigation and to the Titeflex agreed a change to the evaluation of the and the corresponding disclosures Corporation CSST claims.
In particular, useful life used to amortise capitalised on these matters.
See note 8 of the the Committee considered the treatment R&D which resulted in a change from a financial statements.
of potential liabilities and the changes standard five years to between three and to the assumptions made in calculating eight years, depending on whether the The Committee, after receiving the the provisions, including the reproduct is a new platform or derivative, reports on the significant issues and assessment of the time period for the and whether it is hardware or software.
areas of judgement, was content that Titeflex Corporation CSST provision and See note 11 of the financial statements.
the judgements made were appropriate the continued appropriateness of the and are correctly reflected in the ten-year time period for John Crane, Annual Report.
86 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES CONTINUED The Committee recognises that certain Details of the fees paid to PwC for the External audit non-audit services can be completed year ended 31 July 2018 can be found in The Committee places great importance more efficiently by, and be purchased note 2 on page 138.
Non-audit fees as on the quality, effectiveness and more cost-effectively from, the incumbent a percentage of audit fees totalled 5% independence of the external audit auditor due to the audit firms existing FY2017: 8%.
The Company would not process.
In respect of the period, knowledge of the Group and its systems.
expect in the ordinary course of business the Committee: Under the policy the Committee has for non-audit fees to exceed 20% of the considered PwCs audit report on its delegated its responsibility for authorising average of the previous three years review of the FY2018 half yearly results non-audit services from PwC to the Chair total Group audit fees unless exceptional announcements: and its early warnings of the Committee and the Chief Financial circumstances existed.
report on the FY2018 audit: Officer, within set limits: Audit effectiveness is assessed continually approved and monitored PwCs the Chief Financial Officer may approve throughout the year using a number of execution of the audit plan: any service costing less than 10,000 measures including: reviewing the quality discussed any significant issues if it complies with the objectivity and and scope of the proposed audit plan and identified by PwC during the course of independence principles set out in progress against the plan: responsiveness the audit, including the key accounting the policy.
to changes in our businesses: and and audit judgements taken by any permitted service costing more monitoring the independence and management and managements than 10,000 in aggregate and less than transparency of the audit.
responses to the audit findings: 100,000 must be approved by the Chair The Committee also reviews the agreed materiality and fide minimis levels of the Committee.
performance of PwC and the with PwC: and where the estimated total cost is effectiveness of the external audit process considered the draft letter of expected to exceed 100,000 then the by conducting a survey of the Board, representation from the Company to service must be subject to a competitive senior management and divisional finance PwC in connection with the audit of the tender unless agreed by the Chief teams.
The survey included questions FY2018 financial statements.
Financial Officer and the Chair of the on PwCs independence and objectivity, Audit Committee.
The Committee confirms that the audit strategy and planning, conduct and communication, audit findings and Company has complied with the The Committee is satisfied that the nonprovisions of the Competition and Markets feedback, and expertise and resourcing.
audit work performed by PwC during the The results were positive and confirmed Authority Order 2014 relating to the financial year had been properly assessed UK audit market for large companies that PwC and its audit process were and authorised in accordance with the appropriate and effective: and that the throughout the year under review and as Group policy.
at the date of this report.
relationships between the audit teams and In addition to monitoring compliance with the Companys businesses continued to External auditor independence, the Groups policies on the employment of provide effective and objective challenge.
effectiveness and reappointment former employees of PwC and the use of Areas identified for improvement were PwC for non-audit work, the Committees The Committee is responsible for the agreed with PwC.
The Committee also review of PwCs independence included: development, implementation and noted the findings in the FRCs June 2018 monitoring of the Groups policies on examining written confirmation from Audit Quality Inspection report on PwC.
external audit, which are designed to PwC that they remained independent Subsequent to its assessment of PwCs maintain the objectivity and safeguard and objective within the context of independence and performance, the the independence of the external auditor.
applicable professional standards: Committee satisfied itself that the These policies, which are reviewed considering the tenure of the audit quality of the work exhibited by the firm annually, include the engagement of engagement partner, who is required to and its commitment to improvements PwC for non-audit work and regulate rotate every five years in line with ethical were of a high standard.
The Committee the appointment by the Group of former standards: and therefore agreed that it was appropriate employees of PwC.
monitoring the ratio between the fees to recommend to the Board that the The non-audit services policy corresponds for audit work and non-audit services.
reappointment of PwC as the Companys with the European Commissions auditor for a further year be proposed to recommendations on the auditors shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
independence and with the Revised Ethical Standards issued by the Audit Practices Board in the UK.
87 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES AUDIT TENDER PwC or a predecessor firm has been the To help support the Committee in Companys external auditor since 1997, developing and implementing its planned and there has been no previous external approach, the Committee approved audit tender since their appointment.
the formation of a Steering Group, Smiths is required to replace PwC as comprised of the Chair of the Committee its statutory auditor by 2023.
However, Mark Seligman, Sir Kevin Tebbit, Bill as reported in the FY2017 Annual Seeger and John Shipsey to oversee Report, the Committee concluded the work of management.
The Chair of that it was in the best interests of the the Committee and the Steering Group Company to tender for the rotation of each met with the tender project team the external auditor for the FY2020 and received and commented on the audit.
This coincides with the end of main materials prior to them being tenure for the current lead engagement issued to the Committee and or the partner Andrew Kemp who, having participating firms.
been the lead engagement partner for In line with FRC guidance the evaluation five years, in accordance with ethical criteria for the process was agreed as: standards, will be required to rotate off Organisation and capability the Smiths account.
Audit approach and delivery During FY2018, the Committee initiated Audit quality and value-add a tender process designed to be transparent, effective and efficient and Resourcing and engagement team give each participating firm an equal Fees and contracts.
In order to evaluate each of the firms Prior to the tender, participating firms against the criteria the Committee is in were provided opportunities to engage the process of overseeing a number of with Smiths through the placement activities including: of non-audit services.
This enabled participating firms to develop their Analysis of RFP responses understanding of the business, and its Presentations to Group and divisional systems and controls.
Procedures for finance teams and corporate functions managing access to employees and Assessment of performance on nonBoard members and potential conflicts audit services previously provided of interest, including gifts and hospitality, Due diligence including reviewing Audit were implemented.
Quality Review Team reports published Except for PwC, no other firms were by the FRC and references prevented from participating in the Presentations to the Steering Group tender.
However, the Committee agreed and the Committee.
that only Deloitte, EY and KPMG should be issued with the Request For Proposal The tender process is ongoing and the Committee hopes to make a RFP following consultation with several second tier firms who confirmed that recommendation to the Board during the 2018 calendar year following due to their size they would be unable to respond effectively to an RFP.
There are which a detailed transition plan will be developed.
The implementation of the no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
transition plan will be overseen by the Committee through FY2019.
88 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES CONTINUED In fulfilling its responsibilities, Risk management and Internal Audit the Committee: internal control Internal Audit is independent of Received reports to enable an evaluation During the year, the Committee, on the business, and as such has no of the Groups control environment responsibility for operational business behalf of the Board, carried out a robust and risk assurance framework and assessment of the principal risks facing management.
This ensures the integrity embedded risk management processes.
and objectivity of its annual Audit the Group, including those that would This included a report commissioned threaten its business model, future Plan work, which is approved by the by the Committee from an independent Committee.
The authority of the Internal performance, solvency and liquidity.
third-party provider to complete a A description of the principal risks Audit function is derived from the limited scope review of the Groups ERM Committee.
The Director of Internal Audit facing the Company and how these were framework.
The report confirmed that reviewed to assess the Groups viability is accountable to the Board through the the existing ERM process addressed all Chair of the Committee.
Administratively, can be found on pages 5059 and 68. of the expected elements.
In particular, the Director of Internal Audit reports to The Board is also responsible for ensuring stakeholders had reported that the the Chief Financial Officer.
In order to that there are sound risk management risk process had proportionate focus carry out the responsibilities, as set out in and internal control systems in place to and consistency across the business.
a charter approved by the Committee, the safeguard shareholders investments and Enhancement opportunities were Internal Audit function has: the Groups assets.
identified based on stakeholder full and unrestricted access to feedback and leading practice witnessed The internal control system is a all Smiths records, property at other organisations.
Although none framework to manage risks and monitor and personnel: of the opportunities were considered compliance with procedures.
The Groups independent access to the Chair and material, the Committee provided internal control systems are designed to members of the Committee: oversight of the enhancements adopted: meet Smiths particular needs and the the right to request meetings with the risks to which it is exposed.
However, Received reports from each of the Committee: and they can provide only reasonable, not divisions on the ERM process and an absolute, assurance against material loss the authority and obligation to report analysis of their own risk registers.
significant findings or other concerns to to the Group or material misstatement in This enabled the Committee to the financial statements.
understand the risks and opportunities Committee is responsible for designing and assurance processes throughout During the period the Committee: the Enterprise Risk Management ERM the business and the potential impact received progress reports on the system and ensuring it is effectively on the Group.
The Committee also execution of the 2018 Internal Audit Plan: deployed throughout the Group.
considered two principal risk deep-dive discussed recommendations made by More detail can be found on pages reviews into enterprise and product 50 and 51. the internal auditors: cyber risk and the risk of a significant ethical breach with a focus on thirdconsidered the remit of Internal Audit, In FY2018, the Committee, on behalf of party agents and distributors: and its budget and resources and the the Board and with the assistance of nature and extent of any outsourcing to Reviewed managements plans to the Internal Audit function, monitored, specialist co-source providers: and enhance controls in the Groups reviewed and assessed the effectiveness internal financial and risk controls approved the 2019 Internal Audit Plan, of the Groups risk management and and monitored their effectiveness.
including the proposed audit scope, internal control systems in the context of The Committee did not view any of the approach, coverage and allocation the Groups strategy and business model.
89 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES The Committee oversees the performance The Committee also received regular Ethics and Compliance of the Internal Audit function through the reports on the Groups preparedness During the financial year, the Committee Director of Internal Audits attendance for the implementation of the General reviewed the work programme of the at Committee meetings and a review Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
Smiths Ethics and Compliance Office, of agreed KPIs which are reported The obligations under GDPR build on whose activities included the launch to the Committee.
In addition, the those in existing law already applicable to of a new Code of Business Ethics: Committee oversaw the appointment of Smiths.
Smiths has revised and updated investigations into allegations of nonan independent third party to conduct its policies and procedures to reflect compliance with the Code of Business an effectiveness review of the Internal these obligations.
Ethics and any matters raised through Audit function.
The review assessed the the Groups anonymous ethics reporting Performance evaluation Internal Audit functions conformance procedures.
In respect of anonymous The annual evaluation of the performance with the International Standards for ethics reporting the Committee of the Committee was conducted as part the Professional Practice of Internal considered that the Groups processes and of the overall annual evaluation of the Auditing Standards and benchmarked arrangements for employees to report performance of the Board conducted by the functions operation against other concerns about any improprieties and any Independent Audit.
The findings relating functions in listed companies, as well subsequent investigation as necessary, to the Committee were discussed with the as identifying any opportunities for were both appropriate and effective.
The findings from the No issues were raised that required the is considered to be performing well, and review, which were presented to the Committees action.
More information can is rigorous and effective in discharging Committee, were positive.
Internal Audit be found on page 63. its responsibilities.
is seen as a valued assurance function The Committee also commissioned throughout the Group, it is appropriately Committees assessment an audit from a third party on the resourced and conforms with of internal control and risk effectiveness of certain Group policies the Standards.
There were some management arrangements and processes supporting Ethics and opportunities for improvement, including In light of its work, the Committee was Compliance.
The review covered the enhancements to audit documentation content with the effectiveness of the ethics and compliance framework: and agreeing the correct level of coverage Groups processes governing financial distributors and agents: international for future internal audits.
reporting and controls, its culture, trade compliance: gifts and entertainment Treasury and Tax ethical standards and its relationships and modern slavery direct labour and with stakeholders.
The Committee was During the financial year, the Committee supply chain.
The report concluded that also satisfied with the appropriateness reviewed reports from the Treasury there has been significant progress in and adequacy of the Groups risk department on financial risk and strengthening the overall compliance management arrangements, internal treasury management, noting the framework and compliance processes control framework and three lines of Groups borrowing position and debt around the in-scope policy areas from defence model.
capacity and its impact on the Groups its previous audit conducted in 2016. viability.
The Committee also received The report also identified some areas status reports on tax risk from the Tax for further focus which will be overseen department, noting the assessments of by the Committee.
The third party has compliance, tax audit risk, tax provisions recently audited Smiths antitrust and and international tax rates.
The Groups labour standards compliance programme.
assessment of its appetite for tax risk was The audit report is due by the end of also reviewed.
The Groups tax strategy is September and will be reviewed by available on our website.
90 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION WITH OUR SHAREHOLDERS IS ESSENTIAL A strong relationship with shareholders is In FY2018, senior management and the PRIVATE SHAREHOLDERS essential for the success of the Company, Investor Relations team had contact with Sir Kevin Tebbit, Senior Independent and our Directors believe that this is over 150 investors and analysts.
Director, hosted a meeting with supported and maintained by effective members of the UK Shareholders communication.
The Board continually Association in June 2018 INVESTOR AND ANALYST engages with institutional investors, In FY2018 a number of initiatives MEETINGS IN FY2018 private shareholders and other providers were in place for the benefit of our of capital.
private shareholders INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS Asset reunification programme the programme to facilitate the payment The Board is kept informed of investor of unclaimed dividends and to reunite views through the distribution of analyst shares with shareholders began in and broker briefings, and after meetings 2016.
The programme finished in April with major or prospective shareholders 2018, having reunited shareholders with the Chief Executive circulates written shares or dividends valued at 8.3m.
updates to the other Directors to ensure that all Directors are made aware of major E-communications letters promoting United Kingdom 57% shareholders issues and concerns.
the benefits of e-communications were US and Canada 28% issued to shareholders who receive In FY2018, our Chief Executive, Rest of Europe 11% hard copy Company documents.
Chief Financial Officer and Investor Rest of World 4% E-communications allow timely, cost Relations Director led analyst briefings, effective and environmentally friendly including the bi-annual presentations shareholder communication.
of the Groups financial results, Investor relations timeline and carried out extensive investor Dividend cheques the Board approved Date Event roadshows in the UK, USA and Europe.
the removal of dividend cheques September 2017 Annual results and This ongoing engagement ensures a with effect from November 2019 to investor roadshow two-way communication on business ensure that all shareholders receive December 2017 Capital Markets Day performance and our strategy their dividend securely and on the January 2018 US Investor Relations Our Chairman and non-executive payment date.
roadshow Directors were available to meet with March 2018 Interim results and investors to discuss issues as and when investor roadshow they arose OTHER CAPITAL PROVIDERS May 2018 UK private client In December 2017, our Chief Executive broker roadshow The Chief Financial Officer and the hosted a Capital Markets Day in Group Director, Tax and Treasury meet September 2018 Annual results and London for analysts and investors, and communicate proactively with investor roadshow with presentations from members of committed lending banks and bond the Executive Committee and senior holders and the rating agencies on a managers.
The event was an opportunity regular basis for institutional investors to gain a Committed banks are invited to the deeper understanding of the Groups results presentations to enable them to strategy and the actions underway to keep informed of business strategy and drive sustainable growth.
Details are to meet senior management available on our website.
Board members are kept informed of the current credit views of debt investors and the ratings agencies through regular commentary and financial metric reporting to Board meetings 91 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements Our AGM Major shareholders interests The Directors consider our AGM an As at 31 July 2018, the Company had been important opportunity to engage with notified under the Financial Conduct shareholders.
Shareholders are invited Authoritys FCAs Disclosure Guidance to ask questions during the meeting, and & Transparency Rules, or had received have the opportunity to meet Directors disclosures pursuant to the Act, of the before and after the formal proceedings following holdings of voting rights in to discuss issues and priorities.
It is also its shares: an opportunity for shareholders to vote Number of % of total voting rights voting rights Date of notification on certain aspects of Group business in BlackRock person after hearing from the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial 23.3m 5.9% 31 May 2018 Officer.
All resolutions are voted on by Harris Associates LP way of a poll as this allows the Company 19.8m 5.0% 23 February 2018 to count all votes cast rather than just Ameriprise Financial those of shareholders attending the 19.7m 5.0% 27 April 2018 meeting.
All resolutions are voted on Dodge & Cox separately and the final voting results are 19.5m 4.9% 24 August 2017 published as soon as practicable after the meeting.
At the 2017 AGM, all Directors Jupiter Asset Management were available to meet shareholders 14.8m 3.8% 22 September 2016 and answer their questions, and all resolutions were passed.
No further notifications were received between 1 August and 14 September 2018.
The 2018 AGM will be held at 11:00am on Wednesday, 14 November 2018 at Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ.
The Notice of AGM can be found in a separate document which is sent out at least 20 working days before the AGM and made available on our website.
All Directors, including the Chairs of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees are expected to attend.
Shareholders who are not able to attend the AGM in person are encouraged to vote by appointing a proxy and issuing voting instructions, which must be received by Equiniti, the Companys Registrar, not later than 48 hours before the AGM in order to be valid.
Information about Equiniti and how to contact them can be found on page 199.
