70 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES HAVE BEEN THE KEY AREA OF FOCUS I am pleased to introduce our Corporate We have begun to consider ways in CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE governance report in which we describe which a stronger and more meaningful In FY2018, and as at the date of this our governance arrangements, the engagement can take place between report, the Company has applied the operation of the Board and its Committees the Board and the workforce and we main principles and complied with and how the Board discharged its look forward to updating you on these the relevant provisions of the 2016 responsibilities during the year.
I firmly believe that UK Corporate Governance Code the having a strong governance framework is Strategic opportunities have been the Code.
The ways in which the Code vital to good decision-making and to the key area of focus at each of our Board has been applied can be found on the continued success of the Company.
In addition following pages: to this the Board and its Committees We are committed to business integrity, have undertaken a number of important high ethical values and professionalism Leadership governance-related projects, such as across all our activities.
Engagement with Pages 7175 provide details Board succession: an externally facilitated our workforce will, among other things, of the Board and the Board Board evaluation: a review of the Boards enable your Board to gauge how The governance structure.
Diversity and Directors Remuneration Smiths Way, including the Groups values, Effectiveness Policies, and also commenced the are embedded within the organisation.
Pages 7681 describe the activities tender process for replacing PwC During the year, we announced that Anne of the Board and its Committees, as the Companys external auditor.
Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit would step the induction of Directors and down from the Board after serving for Board evaluation.
Both Anne As I have said before, the key and Sir Kevin have provided invaluable Accountability to any successful company contributions to the Company and we The Audit Committee Report describes is the ability to innovate and are grateful for their hard work and the role of the Board in this area pages to create the future.
wise counsel over the years.
Further detail on the Groups we also had the pleasure of welcoming strategic objectives and the principal Olivier Bohuon and Dame Ann Dowling risks to the business can be found in More broadly FY2018 has been an to our Board.
They are both highly the Strategic report.
important year for corporate governance respected leaders in their fields and I am and we welcome the publication of the confident they will further strengthen Remuneration new UK Corporate Governance Code Board discussions and bring invaluable The Directors Remuneration Policy by the UK Financial Reporting Council insight as we continue to lead Smiths on and Remuneration Committee report FRC.
The focus on the themes of its growth journey.
More details on our are found on pages 92111. culture, stakeholder engagement and succession planning are set out in the sustainability are critical factors for us as Relations with shareholders Nomination Committee report.
we partner with our stakeholders to build Pages 9091 detail how we I would like to thank all my colleagues an innovative enduring business.
who have served on the Board and for their contribution during the year and I A copy of the Code is available from the hope that the following pages provide FRCs website at frc.
you with greater insight into our work on As mentioned in my introduction, we your behalf.
welcome the recently published update of the Code and have started work on SIR GEORGE BUCKLEY ensuring we comply with it as fully as CHAIRMAN possible by the time of its introduction in 2019.
71 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements BOARD GOVERNANCE The Board is collectively responsible for Our Board is comprised of a majority of in respect of FY2018 can be found in this the creation of sustainable value for our independent Directors whose diverse Corporate governance report.
The Terms shareholders, and our Directors each backgrounds and experience enable of Reference were reviewed during the have a duty to promote the long-term appropriate challenge at Board and year and are available on our website.
Biographies for The Chief Executive is responsible for has approved a governance framework each Director can be found on pages 72 the executive day-to-day management of of systems and controls in order to to 75. the Company and leading the Executive effectively discharge its responsibilities.
The Board has established the Committee.
Our Executive Committee This framework ensures that the Board Nomination, Audit and Remuneration membership and their biographies can be takes appropriate account of the interests Committees, delegating specific found on page 19.
Executive management of our shareholders and our wider authorities to each of them as set implement the Groups strategy and stakeholders, including our customers, out in their Terms of Reference.
provide the Chief Executive, and the Board employees, suppliers, regulators, the Reports from each of the Committee as a whole, with the information they need communities where we operate, and Chairs on Committee activity during and to make decisions.
GOVERNANCE MODEL BOARD CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE COMPANY DIRECTOR DIRECTORS SECRETARY Responsible for: Responsible for: Responsible for: Responsible for: Responsible for: Ensuring the Boards Developing and proposing Supporting the Chairman Providing constructive Advising the Board on continued effectiveness strategy to the Board in the delivery of the challenge and governance matters Boards objectives strategic guidance to Leading the Board and Setting and Supporting the Chairman Board discussions setting the Board agenda communicating the Being available to in the efficient and culture, values and shareholders if they wish Oversight of effective functioning Shaping boardroom behaviours for the Group to raise any concerns management of the Board and culture and encouraging and the business, its Committees individual Director Leading the Executive Acting as an including culture engagement Committee intermediary between Ensuring the Board the other Directors Offering specialist advice receives quality Leading the annual Managing relationships if necessary information in a Board evaluation with key stakeholders Assessing the timely manner including the workforce, effectiveness of systems customers and of internal control and shareholders risk management BOARD COMMITTEES NOMINATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Reviews and makes recommendations to the Ensures the integrity of the financial Responsible for the Groups remuneration reporting and audit processes, and the Board on the structure, size and composition strategy and reviews and oversees maintenance of sound internal control and of the Board and its Committees, and leads the Groups Remuneration Policy for risk management systems.
Manages the the process for Director appointments executive Directors, the Chairman relationship with the external auditor.
and succession planning for Directors and and senior management.
82 83 92 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE ACQUISITIONS AND Assists the Chief Executive in Assesses high-value and Advises the Chief Executive and DIVESTMENTS COMMITTEE discharging his responsibilities.
high-risk proposals, capital the Board on the identification of Approves mergers, acquisitions, Develops and recommends expenditure, asset disposal and inside information, and the timing disposals and joint ventures strategy and budget, while special revenue expenditure and method of its disclosure.
management responsibilities are projects which require Chief delegated to individual members.
