Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder, During the year, particular time was taken to: The Committee met three times during the year and review the composition of the Board and its Committees: ensures that Board and Committee composition is consider the implications for Board composition of the appropriate for a company of Sophos scale and ambition.
results of the FY18 Board evaluation process and the The key aspects of the Committees role, together with the retirement of Edwin Gillis, and resignation of Salim main areas of consideration and the activities undertaken Nathoo, respectively: during the year are set out in this report.
consider succession plans for SMT, Board, and Committee Composition and Meeting Attendance Committee appointments: As disclosed in our last report to Shareholders, the identify a number of technical and personal capabilities Committee welcomed Rick Medlock as a new member which the Board would value in any new Non-Executive during the year and said farewell to Edwin Gillis following his Director: retirement in September 2017.
The composition of the review the Companys Diversity Policy and consider the Committee is compliant with the Code, which provides that Companys objectives to deliver against its commitments: a majority of its members should be independent Nonmonitor external commitments of the Board, as they Executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by the relate to their time commitments to the Company and Chairman of the Board.
The Company Secretary is secretary potential conflicts of interest: and, to the Committee and attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may differ from time to time and, review and recommend the election and re-election of upon invitation from the Committee, include the Chief Directors at the Companys 2017 AGM.
Executive Officer and other members of the SMT.
Board Composition and Independence Following the resignation of Salim Nathoo on 28 November 100% Peter Gyenes Chairman 2017, excluding the Chairman, the Board is comprised 50 100% Sandra Bergeron per cent independent Non-Executive Directors FY17: 44 per cent.
67% Roy Mackenzie 100% The Board believes that crucial to its ability to lead the Rick Medlock Company successfully it requires a membership that 100% Vin Murria combines detailed knowledge of: the Groups operations and 100% Paul Walker history: the technology industry in which the Group operates: leadership of a global business: and, being listed Attended of those eligible on the London Stock Exchange.
All appointments as at 31 March 2018.
The Board is confident that the balance of independence weighed against, the strong judgement and considerable knowledge that each Non-Executive Director brings, is right Role and Responsibilities and appropriate for Sophos.
However, the Board recognises The Committee is responsible for regularly evaluating the that this is an ongoing process and in the spirit of the current balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of Code, and cognisant of the provisions of the proposed new the Board and its Committees, as well as the size, structure UK Corporate Governance Code relating to directors and composition of each.
It is also responsible for independence, the Board is committed to ensuring the periodically reviewing the Board, Committees and senior Board and its Committees remain appropriately constituted.
management structure, succession plans, and identifying, Process for Board Appointments with management, the priorities for succession planning in respect of each position.
On an annual basis, the The Committee leads the Board appointment process and Committee considers the re-election of Directors prior makes recommendations to the Board, as appropriate.
to their recommended approval by shareholders.
The full During May 2016, the Company engaged Heidrick & terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Struggles, independent executive search consultants, with Companys website at: investors.
whom the Company has no other connection, to assist with Board searches, when required.
Heidrick & Struggles is a Main Activities signatory to, and abides by, the voluntary Code of Conduct The Committee has an annual forward agenda developed on gender diversity and best practice.
from its terms of reference with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting, in addition to any specific matters arising, and topical business or governance items on which the Committee has chosen to focus.
55 Nomination Committee Report continued The Companys current process in relation to Board Details of a number of diversity initiatives introduced appointments is set out below: across the Group during the year are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 41, together with details of diversity within our workforce, including Non-Executive Director at Board and senior management level.
The Committee Chairman and consultants submit a short-list of candidates to the Committee and Chief The Boards objectives for achieving diversity on the Executive Officer for review and inclusion of additional Board are set out below: candidates.
all Board appointments will be made on merit, in the The Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director, context of the skills, knowledge and experience that are Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer each needed for the Board to be effective: meet selected candidates.
Successful candidates go on to meet each Board member.
ensure long lists of potential Non-Executive Directors include diverse candidates of appropriate merit: After all Board members have met the candidate, the Committee make their recommendation to the Board.
encourage the emergence of female candidates and candidates of diverse backgrounds among the senior management talent pool: and, Executive Director only engage executive search firms who have signed up The Committee Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and or, if engaged, search consultants, submit a short-list of best practice.
In addition to taking into account gender, ethnicity and other The Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director, forms of diversity, the Committee seeks to achieve the optimal Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer each balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of meet the selected candidates.
Successful candidates go Sophos and the industry as a whole amongst the Board and on to meet some or all of the Committee members.
SMT, and their direct reports in order to support the Companys The Committees assessment is reviewed with the long-term strategic objectives.
Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer and the Committee make their recommendation to the Board.
The Committee will continue to keep these measurable objectives under review and will make recommendations Succession to the Board for their revision, as appropriate.
The During the year, the Committee conducted a review of Committee is pleased with the Groups performance succession to SMT roles and those individuals who had been against these objectives to date, but acknowledges that identified internally who would be suited to take on each this is an ongoing process.
Internal successors were categorised Performance Evaluation by their relative readiness to assume any such role and where it was not possible to identify a suitable internal The Nominations Committees performance was assessed successor, an external successor would be identified, as as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
It was and when appropriate.
Management would look at the concluded that the Committee operated effectively in FY18.
implementation of development plans to address any In response to findings of the review, Committee members internal successors relative readiness to assume any such will continue to focus on succession planning as a number role.
The Committee have kept a watching brief on of Non-Executive Directors enter their second three-year succession to Board roles during the year, and would term in June 2018.
In addition, the Committee will remain continue to do so during FY19.
available to the Company Secretary in relation to the introduction of a Non-Executive Director training and Diversity development programme.
At 31 March 2018, the proportion of women on the Board was 22 per cent FY17: 20 per cent.
The Companys The Committee also undertakes a review of its terms of Diversity Policy is published on its website at: investors.
reference and composition each year.
recent review in January 2018, no changes were proposed.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found The Company recognises the benefits of diversity in its on the Companys website, at: investors.
broadest sense, including gender and ethnicity, and will continue to ensure that all forms of diversity are actively considered when contemplating future appointments to the Peter Gyenes Board, and recruitment and promotion to the SMT, and their Chairman of the Nominations Committee direct reports.
As set out in the Companys Diversity, it is the 16 May 2018 Boards intention to be mindful of the recommendations of the Davies and Hampton-Alexander reviews on Women on Boards and FTSE Women leaders respectively, when considering the composition of the Board, SMT and their direct reports.
