Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction Good corporate governance is critical in helping build a successful business that is sustainable over the longer term, in the dynamic, fast-paced markets in which we operate Dear Shareholder, With the full support of the Board, I am committed to maintaining a robust governance structure to ensure that we discharge our duties responsibly in setting our strategy and long-term objectives, monitoring and providing oversight to the performance of management and progress of our business, managing our risks, and carrying out our business with integrity.
Good corporate governance is critical in helping to build a successful business that is sustainable over the longer term, in the dynamic, fast-paced markets in which we operate.
To support fulfilling these responsibilities, the Board hold formal quarterly meetings with management to review operating performance and strategic progress, and hold additional periodic updates and reviews, as well as an annual comprehensive strategy and objectives review, discussion and confirmation with the full Senior Management Team SMT.
Corporate Governance Code Compliance This report aims to provide shareholders and other stakeholders with an understanding of how Sophos is managed and the governance and control framework within which we operate.
The Board and I take seriously our commitment to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance and this report sets out on pages 50 to 54 how during the year, we have continued to apply the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code.
The Board considers it has complied fully with the Code throughout FY18, with the exception of the three-month period following the retirement of Ed Gillis in September 2017, during which time, the Board comprised 44 per cent independent Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman.
Since the departure of Apaxs Salim Nathoo from the Board in November 2017, and until the date of this report, 46 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance This report, which is available on the Companys website, explains the key features of the Companys governance structure to provide a greater understanding of how the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied and to highlight areas of focus during the year.
The Code can be found on the FRCs website at www.
uk During the year, the Company complied with all the principles and provisions of the Code, except for Code provision B.
1.2 which recommends that at least half of the Board of Directors of a UK-listed company, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
For the period from 8 September until 28 November 2017 the Board comprised 44 per cent independent Non-Executive Directors after which, and to the date of this report, it has comprised 50 per cent independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is confident that the balance of independence weighed against, the strong judgement and considerable knowledge that each Non-Executive Director individually brings, is right and appropriate for Sophos.
the Board has comprised 50 per cent independent NonBoard Evaluation Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman.
Full details In accordance with current best practice and the Code, of the Boards independence is set out on page 52. the Board undertakes an annual formal evaluation of its performance and effectiveness and that of each Director Throughout the year, the Nominations Committee kept the and its Committees.
As Chairman, I value this annual composition of the Board and its Committees, including evaluation opportunity and consider that key to my role the chairmanship of each Committee, under close review: in creating an effective Board, is the effective assimilation and taking account of the balance of skills, knowledge, of feedback received, and the development and effective experience, and diversity of our Board, continue to believe application of germane recommendations.
our Board composition is strongly appropriate to our responsibilities and to the Sophos mission.
In March 2018, the Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, facilitated the FY18 evaluation.
As Board Composition disclosed in the FY17 Annual Report, the FY17 evaluation As disclosed in the FY17 Annual Report, the Board was undertaken by Duncan Reed of Condign Board welcomed Rick Medlock as a new independent NonConsulting Limited.
The Board continued to consider the Executive Director on 3 April 2017.
Rick has extensive agreed recommendations for improvement during FY18 experience and a deep understanding, and knowledge and reviewed and measured progress, as they were of financial management in the technology industry, and implemented.
The reviews are discussed in more detail with global businesses listed in both the UK and the US.
Rick also assumed the role of chairman of the Audit and Shareholder Engagement Risk Committee following Ed Gilliss retirement as an The Board looks to encourage and maintain an active independent Non-Executive Director and chairman of dialogue with shareholders throughout the year, listens our Audit and Risk Committee at the conclusion of the to the views of representatives of investors and financial Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Rick and institutions, and regularly monitors and considers Vin Murria who joined the Board as an independent Nonshareholder sentiment and feedback.
We believe that the Executive Director in January 2017, have already brought design and operation of a robust, yet evolving governance their considerable experience to bear through their valuable structure, appropriate for a group of the scale and ambition contributions at Board and Committee meetings.
of Sophos, remain critical to meeting the needs of our shareholders.
We welcome all opportunities to meet and Salim Nathoo stepped down as a Non-Executive Director answer shareholders questions.
on 28 November 2017, in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement between the Company and Apax, Conclusion which agreement regulates their ongoing relationship, in Our Board and I continue our commitment to strong accordance with the Listing Rules.
Salim had been a governance as a matter of both strategy and culture.
member of the Board for seven years and had provided We work together with our management team to reflect invaluable support to Sophos through its Initial Public integrity, excellence, and transparency throughout our Offering IPO and during the critical early years of its global leadership and operations.
We believe this has listing.
Further details regarding the Relationship contributed to our growth and shareholder value this Agreement are set out on page 83. past year and will continue to do so going forward.
The Board also welcomed the promotion of Chloe Barry Peter Gyenes from Deputy Company Secretary to Company Secretary, with effect from 1 April 2018.
Eleanor Lacey, our previous Non-Executive Chairman Company Secretary, continues in her capacity as Chief Legal Officer.
47 Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Structure The Companys governance is structured through the Board and a number of committees that support the effective discharge of its duties, as illustrated below.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS Audit and Risk Nominations Committee Remuneration Disclosure Committee Committee Report on pages 55 and 56 Committee Report on page 62 Report on pages 57 to 61 Report on pages 63 to 81 Senior Management Team Risk and Compliance Committee The various committee reports can be found on pages 55 to 81 of this Report and each committees full terms of reference are available on the Companys website at: investors.
The Senior Management Team SMT is comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and nine individuals who head up the key Group functions and each report to the Chief Executive Officer, supporting him in the leadership of the business, and responsible for the day to day management of the Groups operations.
Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and Committees held during the year: 1 Peter Gyenes 100% 100% 100% Kris Hagerman 100% Nick Bray 100% Sandra Bergeron 100% 100% 100% 100% Edwin Gillis resigned on 7 September 2017 67% 67% 100% Salim Nathoo resigned on 28 November 2017 50% 67% Roy Mackenzie 100% 2 Rick Medlock 100% 100% 100% 100% Steve Munford 100% 3 Paul Walker 83% 100% 100% 100% Vin Murria 100% 100% 100% 100% Board Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Directors who are unable to attend scheduled meetings due to competing engagements or unforeseen circumstances are encouraged to input offline and ideally, ahead of the meeting.
1 Peter Gyenes is Chairman of the Board and of the Nominations Committee 2 Rick Medlock was appointed Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, effective from Edwin Gilliss resignation on 7 September 2017 3 Paul Walker is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 48 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board Focus During FY18 provided strong oversight of the Groups strategy retained focus on risk, and in particular cybersecurity: and growth plans, and considered the key risks: oversaw the adoption of new articles of association: discussed potential future acquisition opportunities reviewed the changing corporate governance in support of the Companys strategy: landscape and kept under review the Groups own retained focus on the performance of the Companys corporate governance arrangements including GDPR existing portfolio of products, key risks to delivery for preparedness, internal policies relating to share the portfolio, together with the ongoing portfolio dealing, inside information and disclosure, whistle management strategy and different portfolio scenarios: blowing, and publication of the FY17 Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement: reviewed the Companys operating results and financial statements with management and the Companys undertook a shareholder engagement programme external auditor.
The Board also reviewed and approved with key shareholders: the operating plan for the fiscal year: retained focus on those areas recommended for reviewed the Annual Report including detailed improvement during the FY17 Board evaluation consideration of the identified principle risks and their process and implemented change accordingly: and continued effective management to achieve the undertook an internal evaluation of its performance Groups strategic objectives, the ongoing and effectiveness, and that of each Director and appropriateness of the adoption of the going concern its Committees.
basis of accounting, the appropriateness of the Viability Statement disclosure: and ensured that the Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable and it provided the information necessary to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: Full biographical details of the SMT can be found on the Companys website at www.
Board Evaluation In accordance with current best practice and the Code, the Board undertakes an annual formal evaluation of its performance and effectiveness and that of each Director and its Committees.
It is the Boards policy to invite external evaluation every three years.
External evaluation last took place in FY17 and was facilitated by Duncan Reed of Condign Board Consulting Limited.
Duncan Reed is independent, his only connection with Sophos is his work on the Board evaluation.
The Board continued to consider the agreed recommendations for improvement during FY18 and reviewed and measured progress, as they were implemented.
The FY18 evaluation process was facilitated by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary, and was undertaken in March 2018.
The final evaluation report and suggested priorities were discussed by the Board and each Committee at their respective meetings in May 2018.
The FY18 evaluation focused on a number of areas, including: performance against the FY17 evaluation recommendations, the Board and Committees structure, composition, and their operations, the chairmen, induction and training, and strategy, risk management and internal control.
Following the results of the FY18 evaluation, the Board is content that it remains committed, effective and purposeful in seeking to deliver value to shareholders.
The Directors are individual experts in their field, and work well together with a mutual respect, transparency and authenticity.
In addition, the Board remains confident in the committee structure in place, and level of specialist support and assurance it affords.
49 Corporate Governance Statement continued A review of progress against the FY17 recommendations adopted by the Board for improvement in FY18, together with an outline of the proposed FY19 initiatives as a result of this years FY18 internal evaluation, is set out below: Actions taken in FY18 following the FY17 Evaluation Recommendations for FY19 following the FY18 Evaluation The role of the Board: During the year, the Directors and Board agenda: The Board will continue to shape the annual Company Secretary evaluated existing Board operations, strategic agenda and further develop the relevance of including the format, tone and detail of Board materials, items, and the breadth of subject matter, including and the schedule for their dissemination.
The Board incorporating appropriate external parties each year to adopted a number of enhancements that have improved facilitate additional in-depth discussion of the factors the information quality and flow, and the allocation of the affecting the Companys opportunities.
The Company Secretary has implemented a review process to facilitate ongoing refinement of theseprocesses.
Focused debate at the Board: The Board also introduced Board succession: As the majority of our Non-Executive an annual strategic agenda and adopted a revised pattern Directors enter their second three-year term in June 2018, of Board and Committee meetings.
Together with the the Board will further support the Nominations Committee adoption of a consistent approach to Board materials, to focus on succession planning and ensure at all times this has enhanced agenda planning, facilitated better that the Sophos Board operates effectively and retains use of the Boards time and expertise, and ultimately membership that consistently combines a detailed improved the quality of Board discussion.
knowledge of: the Groups operations and history: the technology industry in which the Group operates: leadership of a global business: and, being listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Support Board and Committee rotation: The Board development: The Board will introduce a NonNominations Committee held detailed discussions Executive Director training and development programme throughout the year concerning planning for future Board which will bring together a variety of informal briefings, and Committee rotation.
Following changes during the technical updates and further interaction with the SMT.
year, the Boards composition is compliant with the Codes provisions for independence.
The Board is confident that it has in place the appropriate range of value accretive skills, experience and knowledge relevant to each forum, yet it recognises that this is an ongoing process and is committed to ensuring the Board and its Committees remain appropriately constituted.
Ensure understanding of wider shareholder sentiment Developing stakeholder engagement: While the Board on Company matters: The Executive Directors met believes its current plans for ongoing stakeholder regularly with shareholders throughout the year and the engagement are appropriate and effective, in light of Board received frequent updates concerning shareholder planned revisions to the Code, the Board will also spend sentiment and the view of analysts on Company matters, time considering its communication with employees, including its products and performance.
In addition, a channel partners and wider stakeholders on an ongoing number of Directors attended and met with analysts at a basis, to ensure the appropriate alignment.
Capital Markets Day held in September 2017.
The Board will invite external advisers or the Companys brokers to attend certain meetings to provide an independent view.
Additionally, the Remuneration Committee Chairman speaks directly with major shareholders and shareholder advisory groups on executive compensation matters.
Corporate Governance Report The Company is committed to maintaining a high standard of A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting corporate governance.
This report, which is available on the Councils website www.
Companys website, including the Audit and Risk Committee The Companys business model is explained in the Strategic Report, Directors Remuneration Report, the Nominations Report.
It is the Boards view that it has been fully compliant Committee Report and the Disclosure Committee Report, with the Code throughout the financial year, except for the details how the Company has applied the main principles and period 7 September to 28 November 2017 during which time provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : membership excluding the Chairman, comprised 44 per leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and cent independent Non-Executive Directors.
Full details of the Boards independence are set out on page 52.
50 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements A.
3 The Chairman A: Leadership The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for its A.
1 The role of the Board effective operation, for overseeing strategy and for ensuring The Board is collectively responsible to Sophos shareholders each Director contributes to effective decision-making.
The for promoting the long-term success of the Company and Chief Executive Officer is expected to lead the business, to the operation of effective governance arrangements.
The develop and deliver the strategy to enable the Company to steps the Board takes to facilitate this are set out on pages achieve its strategic long-term objectives and to develop 46 to 87.
The Board provides leadership and sets the the Senior Management Team.
With the Company Secretary, the Chairman sets the A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board is Boards agenda for the year and ensures sufficient time published on the Companys website, which includes: is available for the discussion of all items.
At, at least one meeting each year, strategic issues are considered in overall management of the Group, its strategy and depth with members of the SMT invited to attend, where long-term objectives: appropriate.
In accordance with the Code, the Chairman ensuring that necessary resources and the appropriate was independent on appointment.
risk management controls, processes and culture are in A.
4 Non-Executive Directors place to deliver its strategy and long-term objectives: Paul Walker was Senior Independent Director for the approval of all material corporate transactions: duration of the year.
The responsibilities of the Senior approval of the Groups annual and half-year results, Independent Director include meeting with shareholders as dividend policy and shareholder distributions: an alternative contact to the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer and working closely with succession to the Board and senior management team the Chairman, acting as a sounding board and providing approval of all material policies including Diversity, support.
The Senior Independent Director is expected to Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Modern Slavery, Share commit six days per year to the role and will commit Dealing and Whistle Blowing: significantly more in exceptional years.
This is in addition to corporate governance arrangements and Board the expected time commitment of a Non-Executive Director.
evaluation: and In accordance with the Code, the Non-Executive Directors are determining the remuneration policy for the Directors encouraged to challenge constructively and to help develop and the SMT.
proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and The Board held six scheduled Board meetings during the monitor the reporting of performance.
They should satisfy year and holds additional meetings, as required.
themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are All Directors are expected, wherever possible, to attend robust and defensible.
As part of the FY18 Board Evaluation all Board and relevant Committee meetings in addition Paul Walker and the Non-Executive Directors considered, to general meetings of the Company, including the AGM.
without the Chairman present, the Chairmans performance.
Details of Board and Committee attendance for the year The next performance evaluation will take place during the are set out on page 48.
The Chairman meets with All Directors are covered by the Companys Directors and the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors Officers liability insurance.
present after each physical Board meeting, and individually with each Non-Executive Director at least once a year.
The Board has a number of committees that support the effective discharge of its duties.
The various committee During the year, the Directors had no unresolved concerns reports can be found on pages 55 to 81 of this Report and about the running of the Company or any proposed action.
each committees full terms of reference are available on It is Company policy that any such unresolved concern the Companys website at: investors.
must be recorded in the Board minutes.
2 Division of responsibilities B: Effectiveness The division of responsibilities between the Chairman B.
1 Board composition and Chief Executive Officer, and the role of the Senior At the date of publication, there are seven Non-Executive Independent Director, are clearly defined and are available Directors including the Non-Executive Chairman who, for on the Companys website at: investors.
the purposes of the Code was independent on appointment on the Board and two Executive Directors.
The Board The Board supports the separation of these roles and the composition is compliant with B.
1.2 of the Code, as at least partnership between Peter Gyenes and Kris Hagerman is half of the Board, excluding the Chairman comprises constructive and based on mutual trust.
The separation of authority enhances independent oversight of the executive management by the Board and helps to ensure that no one individual has unfettered authority.
51 Corporate Governance Statement continued Finally, the Board recognises that Peter Gyenes, the Independence Chairman, is also a Director of Carbonite Inc. on whose During the year, the Board kept under review the overall board Steve Munford is chairman.
The Board consider balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge that Peter was independent upon appointment and of Board and Committee members and their diversity, continues to maintain and contribute an independent including gender, and weighed carefully its overall size and view notwithstanding this cross-directorship.
Peter ability to meet the requirements of the business.
It is the brings valued leadership to the Board and unwavering Boards view that its current members have a wide range of commitment to supporting the Company to achieve its value accretive skills and experience.
The Board believes long term strategic objectives.
that crucial to its ability to lead the Company successfully it requires a membership that combines detailed knowledge Conflicts of Interest of: the Groups operations and history: the technology industry in which the Group operates: leadership of a global The Company has established procedures whereby actual business: and, being listed on the London Stock Exchange.
and potential conflicts of interest arising from current and proposed roles to be undertaken by Directors of the Board The Board is confident that the balance of independence with other organisations are regularly reviewed in respect of weighed against the strong judgement and considerable both the nature of those roles, and their time commitment, knowledge that each Non-Executive Director brings, is right and for proper authorisation to be sought prior to the and appropriate for Sophos.
However, the Board recognises appointment of any new Director.
The Board consider these that this is an ongoing process and is committed to ensuring procedures to be working effectively.
Directors are required the Board and its Committees remain appropriately to notify Sophos when they become aware of any actual or constituted.
In the spirit of the Code, it is the Boards intention potential conflict of interest.
to continue to consider candidates as they may be identified, and the Nominations Committee has identified a number of The Board deals with each notified conflict of interest, or technical and personal capabilities which the Board would potential conflict of interest, on its individual merit and takes value in any new Non-Executive Director.
into consideration all the circumstances.
The following conflicts of interest have been authorised by the Board for In accordance with the Code, the Board undertakes an the relevant period.
annual review of the independence of its Non-Executive Directors taking into account each individuals professional Salim Nathoo was a partner of Apax Partners, LLP and characteristics, behaviour and their contribution to unbiased Roy Mackenzie is a partner at Apax Partners, LP.
The Board considers that the Partners, LP is a wholly owned subsidiary of Apax Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Partners, LLP.
Both Apax Partners, LP and Apax Partners, Director Paul Walker, have the skills, experience and LLP are advisors of the Apax Funds, which wholly own knowledge of the Group, and the markets in which we Pentagon Lock Sarl, Pentagon Lock 6-A Sarl, Pentagon operate to enable them to discharge their respective duties Lock 7-A Sarl and Pentagon Lock US Sarl, and shares a and responsibilities effectively.
Each Non-Executive Director common owner with Apax Global Alpha Limited is prepared to question and to challenge management.
It was noted, that: following the admission of the Companys shares to the The Board considers four of its Non-Executive Directors to London Stock Exchange in 2015, Apax controlled 35.2 be independent for the purposes of the Code: Steve Munford per cent of the voting rights in the Company and at 31 and Roy Mackenzie are not considered independent.
March 2018, controlled 11.09 per cent of the voting rights in the Company: and The Board recognises that Sandra Bergerons overall length of service will be more than eight years after the 2018 AGM Apax is a shareholder of Global Logic, with whom the which may lead some investors to question her Company maintains an ongoing supplier relationship, independence.
The Board considered this issue and agreed and on whose board Salim Nathoo was also a director.
that Sandra continues to maintain and contribute an independent view in all Board deliberations and brings Steve Munford is chairman, and Peter Gyenes is a director invaluable security, operations and board advisory expertise of, Carbonite, Inc. which supplies cloud and hybrid data spanning more than 20 years.
In addition, at the 2018 AGM protection solutions.
Steve is also interim chief executive Sandra will have served on the Board for two years from the of Absolute Software Corporation which supplies endpoint date of her first election, in line with the Code.
visibility and data protection solutions, and sits on the board of Alert Logic, Inc. which supplies security and Comments have been made regarding Paul Walkers past compliance solutions.
participation in a restricted share arrangement, as noted in the annual report on Directors Remuneration on page 81, Sandra Bergeron sits on the boards of F5 Networks and which may have led some investors to question his Qualys, Inc. suppliers of application delivery networking independence.
The Board are agreed that since his and cloud security and compliance management appointment as Senior Independent Director, Paul, whose solutions, respectively.
technology and senior leadership experience spans more Vin Murria is a non-executive director of Softcat plc, with than 30 years, has been independent in character and whom the Company maintains an ongoing customer judgement and remains an active and committed Board relationship.
member and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
52 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements B.
2 Appointments to the board continues to be tailored to address the identified areas for focus as well as topical corporate governance, regulatory Following the appointment of Rick Medlock as a Nonand technical matters.
Each year the Directors are invited to Executive Director with effect from 3 April 2017, there were attend the annual Partner Conferences to support their no further appointments to the Board during the year.
The familiarity with the Groups products and operations.
succession and appointment process is led by the Nominations Committee with strong oversight from the B.
Further details concerning the succession and The Directors have full access to the Chief Legal Officer and appointment process, and the Companys policy on diversity Company Secretary, who each advise the Board and the are set out in the Nominations Committee report on pages Board Committees on relevant matters, including 55 and 56. compliance with the Companys policies and procedures, All Non-Executive Directors serve on the basis of letters of relevant legislation and regulation, including the Listing appointment which are available for inspection upon Rules and the Code and other governance standards.
The letters of appointment set out the expected Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary are each time commitment of Non-Executive Directors who, on available to provide guidance to the Board and individual appointment, undertake that they will have sufficient time to Directors regarding their duties, responsibilities and powers meet what is expected of them.
Non-Executive Directors are and the Company Secretary ensures the proper appointed for an initial three-year term and the continuation administration of the proceedings and matters relating to of their appointment is conditional on satisfactory the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Company performance and subject to annual re-election at the Secretary work together to ensure that Board papers are Companys annual general meetings.
Executive Directors clear, accurate, delivered in a timely and secure manner to serve on the basis of service agreements which are also Directors, and are of sufficient quality to enable the Board to available for inspection upon request.
Further details on the discharge its duties effectively.
Directors may obtain Executive Directors service agreements are included in the independent professional advice at the Companys expense Directors Remuneration Policy, on page 70. in the furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary or advisable.
3 Commitment All Directors have access to an online portal to which Board During the year, the Board considered the external materials are published and Board resources, including commitments of its Chairman, Senior Independent and information about the Company and helpful guidance other Non-Executive Directors and is satisfied that these do documents for their reference as Directors of a UK listed not conflict with their duties and time commitments as company, are available.
Executive Directors may accept external appointments with the prior approval of the B.
6 Evaluation Chairman, provided that such appointments do not prejudice In FY18, performance evaluations of the Board, its the executives ability to fulfil their duties for the Group.
Committees and individual Directors were carried out B.
External evaluation last took place in FY17 and will take place again in FY20.
The FY18 evaluation The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, considered performance against the FY17 evaluation is responsible for the induction of new Directors, and the recommendations, the Board and Committees structure, ongoing development of all Directors.
An induction composition, and their operations, the chairmen, induction programme is provided to all Directors on joining the Board, and training, and strategy, risk management and internal designed to provide an understanding of the Groups control.
Further details of the evaluation, together with business, governance and key stakeholders.
The induction recommendations for FY19, can be found on pages 49 to 50. process continues to evolve and currently includes, the provision of an induction pack and past Board materials, As part of the internal evaluation, the Non-Executive meetings with key individuals and the Companys advisors, Directors evaluated the performance of the Chairman.
and briefings on the Companys products, as well as key Following the evaluation, the Board is satisfied that it business, legal and regulatory issues facing the Group.
remains committed, effective and purposeful in seeking to As the business environment changes, it is important to deliver value to shareholders.
In addition, the Board remains ensure the Directors skills and knowledge are refreshed confident in the committee structure in place, and level of and updated regularly.
Accordingly, the Company Secretary specialist support and assurance it affords.
ensures that updates on corporate governance, regulatory B.
7 Election and re-election and technical matters are published to Directors at Board meetings and by means of communications between In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association meetings.
the Articles and the Code, each Director is subject to election at the first AGM following their appointment, and The Boards approach to training and development re-election at each subsequent AGM.
The Directors opportunities continues to develop and the Company unanimously recommend the re-election of all other Secretary in consultation with the Chairman works closely members of the Board.
Full biographical details for all with Directors to ascertain their training and development Directors can be found on pages 44 and 45, and needs.
Through this process, the Boards approach summarised in the Notice of AGM.
53 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board believes that the Companys current C: Accountability Remuneration Policy, as approved by shareholders at C. 1 Financial and business reporting the 2016 AGM, remains appropriate and fit for purpose.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the Financial Statements, including the status of the Group as a D. 2 Procedure going concern, is set out on page 86, with an explanation of The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Groups strategy and business model, together with the Remuneration Committee, including the setting of the relevant risks and performance metrics, which are set out in Groups overall remuneration policy and strategy, as well as the Strategic Report on pages 16 to 43. the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and SMT and their direct reports.
Full details are set out in A further statement is set out on page 87, confirming that the terms of reference for the Committee published at the Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, investors.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to During FY18, no individual was present when their own assess the Companys position, performance, business remuneration was being discussed.
E: Relations with Shareholders C. 2 Risk management and internal controls E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the The Board recognises that meaningful engagement with its principle risks facing the Company, including those that shareholders is integral to the continued success of the would threaten its business model, future performance, Group.
Throughout FY18, members of the Board have solvency or liquidity.
Further details concerning how they are sought to actively engage with shareholders on a number of being managed or mitigated can be found on pages 34 to 37. occasions, through meetings, presentations and roadshows.
The Audit and Risk Committee report explains the process Non-Executive Directors are kept informed of the views of carried out for the ongoing assessment of the effectiveness the shareholders through periodic reports from the Chief of the Companys risk management and internal control Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, including systems on pages 57 to 61. inputs from the corporate brokers with whom they are in The Boards assessment of the prospects of the Company, regular contact.
The Non-Executive Directors are invited to its expectation that the Company will be able to continue in attend meetings in the investor relations programme, operation, and meet its liabilities as they fall due, the viability including the Capital Markets Day, and welcome the statement, is set out on page 86. opportunity to meet with our major shareholders.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors Annual General Meeting The Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 57 to 61 The AGM will be held on 30 August 2018 at the Companys sets out the details of the composition of the Committee, registered office.
All shareholders have the opportunity to including the expertise of its members, and outlines how attend and vote, in person or by proxy.
The Notice of AGM is the Committee has discharged its responsibilities in FY18.
sent to all shareholders who have requested to receive hard copy documentation and can also be found on our website The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the at investors.
Audit and Risk Committee, including: oversight of the Groups financial reporting processes: management of the external The Notice of AGM sets out the business of the meeting auditor: and, management of the internal risk management and explanatory notes on all proposed resolutions.
Full details are set out in the terms of reference resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive for the Committee published at investors.
The AGM is the Companys principal forum for communication with private shareholders.
KPMG LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as the Companys auditor.
Resolutions proposing their By order of the Board reappointment and to authorise the Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
Chloe Barry D: Remuneration Company Secretary D. 1 Level and components of remuneration 16 May 2018 The annual report on Directors Remuneration on pages 72 to 81 outlines the activities of the Committee during FY18.
The Companys Directors Remuneration Policy, including relevant remuneration components and how they support the achievement of the strategic long-term objectives of the Company are set out on pages 65 to 71.
The annual report on Directors Remuneration sets out the implementation of remuneration during FY18, including salary, bonus and share awards, and payments for loss of office paid to Directors.
