Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Audit and Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholder, professional and regulatory requirements.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys The Committee met five times during the year and website, at: investors.
welcomed Rick Medlock as its Chairman in September 2017 and Vin Murria as a new Committee member in January Main Activities 2018.
Edwin Gillis stepped down as Chairman after the 2017 AGM.
Rick Medlock has a deep understanding and knowledge The Committee has an annual forward agenda, developed of financial management in the technology industry and from its terms of reference, with standing items that the extensive experience with globally-oriented UK-listed Committee considers at each meeting, in addition to any companies.
Set out here are the key aspects of the specific matters arising, and topical business or financial Committees role in more detail, together with the main items on which the Committee has chosen to focus.
The activities it has undertaken and the significant issues it has Chairman and the Company Secretary have worked together considered during the year.
to review and, where appropriate, refresh the annual forward agenda to bring in to greater focus areas of importance for Committee Composition and Meeting Attendance the Committee, and the Company.
Such revisions have included the introduction of updates from the Chief Legal Officer and Head of Internal Audit at each meeting.
100% Rick Medlock Chairman 100% During the year, the work of the Committee fell in to three Sandra Bergeron main areas as follows: 100% Vin Murria 100% Accounting, tax and financial reporting Paul Walker The Committee has: Attended of those eligible reviewed and approved the quarterly trading updates, All appointments stated are as at 31 March 2018 half-year and annual financial statements, the attendant significant financial reporting judgements and disclosures, and investor presentations: The composition of the Committee is compliant with the reviewed and approved the going concern and viability Principles of the Code, which provides that all members assessment, and the annual external statement thereon: should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
In line with the requirements of the Code and the FRCs Guidance on reviewed updates on accounting matters, including Audit Committees, Rick Medlock, the Committee Chairman, consideration of relevant accounting standards and has recent and relevant financial experience through his underlying assumptions, and in particular: the review and previous employment in senior financial positions at large the use of constant currency comparators applied by the companies, including until February 2018, as CFO of Company and the impact of changing accounting Worldpay Group plc, a UK listed company, and is a qualified standards, most notably covering revenue recognition Chartered Accountant.
and leases: and, reviewed and approved the interim and full-year dividend The Board is also satisfied that all members of the proposals and adjudged them to be in line with the Committee have extensive experience of the technology Companys Dividend policy.
industry in which we operate, sufficient to enable the Committee to exercise its duties effectively.
Full Risk management and internal controls biographical details are set out on pages 44 and 45.
The Committee has: The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for the year attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee as well as longer-term objectives and reports and updates meetings may differ from time to time and, upon invitation of the work performed by the in-house internal audit team from the Committee, include the Chairman, the Chief and EY, as the outsourced internal audit providers Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, Chief appointed by the Committee in 2015: Information Officer and other members of the SMT.
The reviewed and approved the risk assessment process and, Committee will also invite representatives from the internal in particular the identification and assessment of the auditor Ernst & Young LLP EY and the external auditor Companys principal risks and the attendant disclosures: KPMG LLP KPMG, as required.
received and noted regular updates from the Risk and Role and Responsibilities Compliance Committee RCC, a management committee that has a direct reporting line to the The Committee has a fundamental role to play in reviewing, Committee, to provide an additional level of assurance monitoring and challenging the integrity and effectiveness to the Committee: and, of the Companys financial reporting and internal control processes.
The Committee also oversees the relationship received and noted regular updates from the Chief Legal between the Group and its external auditor and makes Officer concerning pending or ongoing litigation, and recommendations to the Board on their appointment.
In statutory or regulatory risks, including General Data addition, the Committee monitors and reviews the external Protection Regulation preparedness and consideration auditors independence, objectivity and the effectiveness of of the HMRC Corporate Criminal Offence.
the audit process, taking into account relevant legal, 57 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued External Auditor Significant Issues The Committee has: The issues considered by the Committee that are deemed to be significant to the Group are set out below: supported the new lead audit partner during his first year working with the Company: met with the external auditor, KPMG, to review the annual Revenue Recognition audit plan and receive their findings and reports on the The Group generates revenue from sales of products annual audit and interim review: and, through subscriptions, hardware and the rendering of reviewed and approved the external auditor evaluation enhanced support or professional services.
There is a risk paper prepared by management covering the external that revenue is inappropriately recognised if revenue is auditors independence and objectivity, and evaluation of incorrectly apportioned to a product or service or if the the effectiveness of the audit process, together with the recognition criteria of the product is not correct.
The Group has a revenue recognition policy in place that Key matters covered by the Committee are reported to the details the application of relevant standards to the subsequent meeting of the Board, which also receives products and services sold by the Group.
The policy copies of the minutes of each meeting.
includes rules for applying fair value to components of multiple element arrangements and timing of recognition Performance Evaluation dependent upon the individual nature of the goods or The Audit and Risk Committees performance was assessed services sold.
At half-year and year-end management as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
It was provide to the Committee an accounting paper on concluded that the Committee operated effectively in FY18.
revenue recognition, any changes arising from updated In response to findings of the review, Committee members standards and a commentary on the revenue recognised.
will continue to work closely with management to consider The Groups external auditors have reported to the the Groups risk profile and review and challenge the Committee that they have reviewed the revenue Companys systems for risk management and internal recognition policy and processes as well as performing control as the Company grows and evolves.
The Committee detailed testing of revenue recognition across the year also undertakes a review of its terms of reference and and found revenue to be appropriately accounted for.
Having provided appropriate challenge to management This review last took place in March 2018, and the full terms and the external auditors, the Committee has concluded of reference of the Committee are on the Companys that revenue recognition for the Group is appropriate.
Reporting Requirements and Presentation The Group makes use of certain non-GAAP measures and discloses certain items separately within the consolidated statement of profit or loss as exceptional items which, in the opinion of the Directors, enables an enhanced understanding of the performance of the Group.
The use of these measures and disclosures is judgemental in nature.
The use of non-GAAP measures and the classification of certain income statement items as exceptional by the Group have been reviewed by the Committee during the year with reference to authoritative guidance and regulations as well as through discussions with management and external advisors.
The Committee is satisfied that the use of such measures is appropriate and enhances the understanding of the Groups financial performance and its prospects.
The Committee has also reviewed the disclosures made in this Annual Report and has discussed them with the external auditors, so as to ensure that it is comfortable with the content and presentation made in the Annual Report.
58 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The preparation and issue of financial reports is managed by Internal Controls and Risk Management the Groups finance department, as delegated by the Board.
During the year, the Committee has received and reviewed The Groups financial reporting process is controlled using reports regarding progress on risk management and the the Group accounting policies and reporting systems.
The principal risks identified across the Group.
The Committee Groups finance department supports all reporting entities was satisfied with the risk management process and with with guidance on the preparation of financial information.
the relevance of the risks identified.
It was also satisfied Each legal entity has a Finance Director or Controller who with the level of assurance provided by the Groups Internal has responsibility and accountability for providing Audit and Risk Management function, which is supported information which is in accordance with agreed policies.
The Committee has concluded that sound risk The financial information for each entity is subject to a management and internal control systems have been review at reporting entity and Group level by the Chief maintained throughout the year.
Financial Officer alongside the Vice President of Finance.
The Annual Report is reviewed by the Committee in advance Whilst the Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups of presentation to the Board for approval.
Additionally, the systems of risk management and internal control, each of Finance Director or Controller of each significant reporting the individual functional leaders are recognised as key entity completes a self-certified quarterly Financial drivers of the process through which risks and uncertainties Reporting Review Questionnaire which is used to identify are identified.
The Board recognises that rigorous internal control strengths and weaknesses across all financial areas, control systems are critical to managing risks and with any weaknesses being subsequently addressed.
fundamental to the achievement of its strategic objectives.
The Board further acknowledges that these systems are The Group also maintains a consolidated Risk Register which designed to manage rather than eliminate risk in the Group.
sets out the nature and extent of the significant risks facing the Group.
Each of the risks are prioritised according to The formal process for identifying, evaluating and managing likelihood of occurrence and potential impact to the Group significant risks faced by the Group is overseen by the RCC and the register ensures that all risks are identified, in association with the work performed by the Internal Audit measured, mitigated, and managed by the appropriate owner.
The RCC has designed the risk framework in order to capture and evaluate control The Directors, through the use of appropriate procedures, weaknesses and risks facing the business.
Where the Board systems and the employment of competent personnel, have defines an identified risk as significant, procedures are ensured that measures are in place to secure compliance established to ensure that necessary action is taken to with the Companys obligation to keep adequate accounting rectify or mitigate as appropriate.
The accounting records are kept at the registered office of the Company.
These aforementioned functions provide additional assurance to the Committee who have ultimate responsibility How We Manage Risk for the oversight and review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls.
The Sophos Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring effective identification, assessment and management of The external auditors provide a supplementary, independent risk across the Group.
Central to the risk management and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal process is the Groups culture of openness, transparency control system which they assess in the course of their and accountability.
Their findings are regularly reported to both the The Internal Audit and Risk Management function manage Committee and the Board.
and drive the risk management framework and operates on Key elements of the control environment are: an independent basis providing further assurance to the Committee and the Board.
The risk management framework annual budgets and strategic plans performed for all enables a robust assessment process to identify risks in line business units and the Group as a whole with the overall achievement of the business strategy.
This monitoring of performance against budget and function also ensures that all relevant and significant risks subsequent forecast with reporting to the Board on a identified across the business are mapped to the Internal regular basis Audit plan for the year.
In addition, the Groups annual planning and quarterly forecasting cycles include monthly review of detailed key performance indicators discussions around business risks identified to ensure all contracts are reviewed at a level of detail appropriate appropriate investment by the Group.
to the size and complexity of the contract On a quarterly basis, the RCC reviews the status of risk timely reconciliations are performed for all significant exposures and risk management throughout the business balance sheet accounts as managed by the Internal Audit and Risk Management clearly defined organisational structure and function.
The RCC is a committee of senior leaders authorised authorisation lines by the Board to provide an additional level of assurance to the Committee in overseeing risk management and internal the RCC that oversees the risk management process control activities.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee the Committee, which approves audit plans and reviews and challenges the effectiveness of the risk assesses the overall appropriateness of the Groups management process.
59 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Identify Risk Analyse & Management Re-evaluate Evaluate Process Develop & Implement Risk Management Plan The Group takes a two-pronged approach to identifying risks: Whistleblowing A whistleblowing policy is in place in the Group enabling 1 A b ottom-up approach at the business function level employees to confidentially report matters of concern where these risks are managed at the operational level directly to Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee with an appropriately defined escalation process in place receives details of any matters raised.
for those risks rated as high.
Internal Audit 2 A t op-down approach at the senior leadership team level which are the principal risks which could have a serious EY continue to support the Sophos Internal Audit and Risk impact on the strategic business plan of the Group and Management function.
The Groups Chief Financial Officer may encompass several of the risks identified in the provides oversight and co-ordination of Internal Audit with bottom-up approach.
In order to ensure independence, the Internal Audit function has a direct reporting line to A series of risk identification approaches are used, such the Committee and its Chairman.
as risk identification and horizon scanning workshops, interviews, and inclusion of risk discussions in team The nature and scope of the Internal Audit plan using a meetings.
Risk registers are fully owned at the business risk-based approach, was approved by the Committee, function level and registers are maintained and reviewed with any subsequent changes to the plan requiring further on a quarterly basis.
The results of the audits were assessed alongside responses from management.
Any outcomes graded as All identified risks are assessed against a pre-defined requiring improvement were considered in detail by the scoring matrix and prioritised accordingly.
Any risks Committee along with the appropriateness of mitigation identified in the bottom-up approach deemed to be rated as plans to resolve the issues identified.
higher risk are escalated in line with pre-defined escalation procedures for further evaluation.
At each meeting, the Committee received audit reports and updates from the Internal Auditors, in order to ascertain Following the identification of risks, a risk management plan progress in completing the Internal Audit plan and to review is developed and implemented.
This is managed by the results of the audits.
The Internal Audit plan continues to assigned risk owner with regular feedback to the RCC.
be developed through a review of formal risk assessments, together with consideration of the Groups key business Regular reporting of risk management ensures each risk is processes and functions that could be subject to audit.
re-evaluated on a timely basis to ensure that all relevant The Committee monitored and reviewed the scope and risks are identified and managed appropriately and that the results of the Internal Auditors activities as well as the Board is focused on the principal risks identified.
effectiveness of Internal Audit during the financial year.
60 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Non-audit fees for the year ended 31 March 2018 were nil, Review of Effectiveness in the year-ended 31 March 2017 the non-audit fees were The Board, through the Committee, has reviewed and 33 per cent of the audit and audit-related fees.
During the considered the effectiveness of the risk management and year-ended 31 March 2017 the non-audit services provided system of internal controls in operation across the Group.
by KPMG related primarily to tax compliance activities.
Full details of auditor remuneration is shown in note 9 to the The main objectives of the Groups internal control Financial Statements.
systems are: Review of Effectiveness of External Auditor to ensure its aims and objectives are met: An important role of the Committee is to assess the to ensure adherence to management policies: effectiveness of the external audit process.
In performing to ensure compliance with statutory requirements: this assessment, the Committee: to safeguard assets: and reviewed the annual audit plan and considered the to ensure the relevance, reliability and integrity of auditors performance against that plan along with any information, so ensuring as far as possible the variations to it: completeness and accuracy of records.
met with the audit engagement partner to review the audit findings and responses received to questions raised Any system of control can only ever provide reasonable by the Committee: and not absolute assurance that control weaknesses or irregularities do not exist, or that there is no risk of material held regular meetings with the audit engagement partner, errors, losses, fraud, or breaches of laws or regulations.
including in the absence of executive management: Accordingly, the Group is continually seeking to improve considered their length of tenure: the effectiveness of its systems of internal control.
reviewed the nature and magnitude of non-audit services The Committee has concluded that the Groups risk provided: and management and system of internal controls is deemed reviewed the external auditors own independence effective.
This is informed by a number of sources: confirmation presented to the Committee.
the audit work undertaken by the Internal Audit function: Based on the assessment performed, the Committee has risk management procedures managed and overseen recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint by the RCC: and KPMG LLP be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
reports issued by the Groups external auditors.
A detailed review of the Groups management of each principle risk or uncertainty is explained on pages 34 to 37 Rick Medlock External Auditor Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 16 May 2018 The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to the appointment and reappointment of the external auditors.
In making these recommendations, consideration is given to auditor effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and any other factors that may impact the reappointment of the external auditors.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of external auditors and the Committee considers on an annual basis the need for a formal tender process in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Groups auditors, KPMG LLP, were appointed for the year-ended 31 March 2001 with the audit engagement partner rotation last occurring for the current year-end The external auditors may perform certain non-audit services for the Group, though above a certain level of materiality, any such non-audit services require preapproval by the Audit and Risk Committee and are onlypermitted to the extent allowed by relevant laws andregulations.
