AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee will continue to focus on risk management and the Groups ongoing enhancements to systems of governance and internal control.
I am pleased to present the report to shareholders on the activities The UK Corporate Governance Code invites the Committee to of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2018.
This report sets out report on the significant matters considered during the year.
I am how the Committee has assessed the integrity of the Groups satisfied that our activities have provided the Committee with financial reporting processes, the quality and effectiveness of a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Group internal audit and the Groups systems of risk management and during the year and details are contained in this report.
From my internal control, and the quality and effectiveness of the perspective, the most important matters were: external audit.
the consideration of changes in the presentation of alternative The Committee met four times during the year.
The meetings are performance measures related to the 2018 Financial Statements: aligned to the Groups financial reporting timetable, to allow the continued review of the impact of IFRS 15 on the timing of sufficient time for full discussion of key topics and enable early revenue recognition across the Group: identification and resolution of risks and issues.
The Committee has the annual impairment review: an annual calendar of activities to ensure that all significant areas the review of the financial reporting process, estimates of risk management are addressed.
The schedule is flexible to and judgements: and ensure that the Committees activities allow for the review of regulatory developments and emerging best practice.
the review of the Group Ethics and Compliance Enhancement Programme which will enhance the Groups approach to The Committee considers it important to interact with members of monitoring and mitigating of actions in respect of ethics, management beyond the Executive Committee.
The Committee anti-bribery and corruption and export controls.
held its meeting in October at Millbrook Proving Ground and spent time with the Millbrook senior leadership team to discuss the As a Committee, we continue to focus on risk management and, in particular, the Groups ongoing enhancements to systems of opportunities and risks faced by the business.
As Chairman of the Committee, I also met regularly with management, internal audit governance and internal control.
and the external auditor between Committee meetings.
I hope that this review, and the report that follows, is useful in Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Companys auditor in 2016 understanding the work of the Committee during the year.
The Committee encourages shareholder feedback and I look forward to following a competitive tender and they have now completed their second year as auditor.
The Committee carried out an assessment meeting with shareholders at our Annual General Meeting in May.
of the performance, independence and effectiveness of Deloitte Bill Seeger during the year and was satisfied that Deloitte remain effective Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee in their role.
19 February 2019 Membership and attendance The Committee is comprised solely of independent Non-executive Directors.
Bill Seeger, Martha Wyrsch, Ulf Quellmann and Karim Bitar were members of the Committee throughout 2018.
Bill Seeger is determined by the Committee to have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
All members of the Committee are considered to have competencies that the Board deems relevant to the sectors in which the Company operates.
Meetings are normally attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, the General Counsel and Company Secretary and representatives of the external auditor.
The Committee retains time around each meeting to meet separately without management present and invites the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor to attend for part of this session.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the annual forward agenda and its terms of reference and concluded that, for the coming year, three longer meetings of the Committee would be scheduled in place of four, to allow for a more focused review of audit and risk management.
The annual forward agenda and terms of reference were amended to accommodate this change.
54 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Key areas of focus in relation to the Financial Statements Issues and significance The role of the Committee Comments and conclusions Change in the presentation of Alternative Performance Measures In November 2018, the Group announced the The Committee considered the The Committee considered the change implementation of a Group-wide profit presentation of the Financial Statements in definition of adjusted measures and improvement programme.
The total costs of and the use of alternative performance reviewed the restated comparative implementation of this programme are considered measures and the presentation of adjusted figures for 2017.
With the to be significant in both nature and amount.
On adjusted items, including the change in challenge of the external auditor, the this basis, the costs of the implementation of this the Groups definition of adjusted Committee agreed that the Financial programme are excluded from adjusted operating items.
The Committee received a report Statements included clear and profit.
Adjusted operating profit including on a from management outlining the meaningful descriptions of the like-for-like basis is therefore presented before the judgements applied in relation to the alternative performance measures used, impact of Project Uplift and Group profit disclosure of adjusted items and, including appropriate re-statement of improvement programme costs, which have been challenged by the external auditor, prior year figures.
It was also concluded combined as restructuring for presentation considered whether the performance that the relationship between these purposes.
Adjusted operating profit after Project measures and use of adjusted items measures and the statutory IFRS Uplift costs has been presented for ease of proposed by management provided a measures was clearly explained and comparability between 2017 and 2018. meaningful insight into the results of supported the understanding of the the Company for shareholders.
Revenue recognition The Company has been required to comply with The Committee considered The Committee considered the IFRS 15 throughout 2018.
Under IFRS 15, an entity managements approach to the judgements made by management is required to recognise revenue when it transfers changes to revenue recognition, the regarding the impact of IFRS 15 for the goods services to the customer in an amount that assumptions and estimates, and the year ended 31 December 2018.
The reflects the consideration to which the entity impact on the Groups revenue.
They external auditor confirmed to the expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods also reviewed the approach of the Committee during the year that it had and services.
external auditor to the design of audit audited the accounting treatment procedures to support the avoidance adopted by management in respect of the misstatement of revenue.
of IFRS 15. Review of goodwill and intangible assets for impairment Management assessed the carrying value of its The Committee reviewed and For all cash-generating units, except cash-generating units, including detailed value-inchallenged assumptions made by Concept Life Sciences, management use calculations, to ensure that the carrying values management in their assessment of did not consider there to be any recognised were supported by future forecast the valuation of goodwill and reasonably possible scenarios that discounted cash flows.
Concept Life Sciences intangible assets and considered the could arise in the next 12 months that performance following acquisition has been below challenge from the external auditor on would result in an impairment charge expectations during 2018.
As part of the annual the assumptions underpinning being recognised.
Following the impairment review process, it was determined that managements estimates.
The assessment by management and the for this cash-generating unit, a reasonably possible Committee then agreed with review and challenge of the external change in assumptions could lead to an impairment management an increased level of auditor and the Committee, it was in the future.
Further detailed disclosure around disclosure to support their assessment.
confirmed that a reasonably possible the sensitivities is set out in Note 11 to the change in assumption could lead to an Financial Statements.
impairment of Concept Life Sciences in the future.
Estimation, uncertainty and judgement During the year, the Committee received reports Management confirmed to the After reviewing and challenging the and recommendations from management to Committee that they were not aware presentations and reports from consider the significant accounting issues, of any material or immaterial management and consulting, where estimates and judgements applicable to misstatements made intentionally to necessary, with the external auditor, the Groups Financial Statements and disclosures.
the Committee is satisfied that the Financial Statements appropriately The key risks of estimation disclosed in the The Committee reviewed presentations address critical judgements and key Groups 2018 Financial Statements are: the by management and questioned estimates both in respect of the assumptions applied in the calculation of Deloitte to understand whether the amounts reported and the disclosures.
retirement benefit plan liabilities: provisions for external auditor had, to the uncertain exposures and tax positions: and Committees satisfaction, fulfilled its The Committee is also satisfied that estimates used in the annual impairment review.
responsibilities with diligence the significant assumptions used for and professional scepticism and in determining the value of assets and Further details are set out in Note 1, Note 8, Note a sufficiently robust manner.
liabilities have been appropriately 11 and Note 20 to the Financial Statements.
scrutinised and challenged and are sufficiently robust.
Spectris plc 55 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued Role of the Committee The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in respect of: overseeing the Companys financial reporting processes: reviewing, challenging and approving significant accounting judgements proposed by management: reviewing and monitoring the way in which management ensures and oversees the adequacy of financial, risk management and compliance controls: the appointment, remuneration, independence and performance of the Groups external auditor: and the independence and performance of internal audit.
Details of the work carried out by the Committee in accordance with its terms of reference and in addressing significant issues are reported to the Board as a matter of course by the Chairman of the Committee and are described in this report.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be found at www.
Principal areas of responsibility Accounting Standards Principal Risks Financial Statements Risk Management Systems Viability Statements Accounting, Risk management Internal Controls Going Concern procedures and processes tax and financial and internal controls Corporate Governance Code Business Ethics, Anti-Bribery, reporting Audit Disclosure Controls and Compliance and Fraud Procedures Whistleblowing and Risk Internal Audit Reports Committee External Audit Approach & Scope Auditor Appointment & Fees External Audit Findings External auditor Non-Audit Fees Assessing the effectiveness of the external auditor Activities of the Committee during 2018 2.
Risk management and internal controls The Committee has an annual forward agenda developed from its assessing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and terms of reference with standing items considered at each meeting internal control environment and making recommendations to in addition to any specific matters arising and topical business or the Board: financial items on which the Committee has chosen to focus.
considering reports from internal audit: The work of the Committee in 2018 principally fell into three considering the level of alignment between the Companys main areas: principal risks and internal audit programme: 1.
Accounting, tax and financial reporting reviewing the adequacy of resources of the internal audit function and considering and approving the scope of the internal reviewing the integrity of the half-year and annual Financial audit programme: Statements and the associated significant financial reporting judgements, estimates and disclosures: considering the effectiveness of internal audit: reviewing the Groups ongoing litigation matters: considering the liquidity risk and the basis for preparing the half-year and annual Financial Statements on a going concern reviewing the control procedures in place to comply with the basis, and reviewing the related disclosures in the Annual Report Groups policies on business ethics, anti-bribery, compliance and and Accounts: fraud, including the steps being taken to enhance the Groups ethics and compliance programme: considering the provisions of the Code regarding going concern and viability statements and reviewing emerging practice and reviewing matters reported to the external whistleblowing investor comment as well as the Groups Viability Statement: hotline and the status of associated investigations: and reviewing updates on accounting matters including the new considering reports from the external auditor on their assessment accounting standard on leases IFRS 16 : and of the control environment.
reviewing the processes to assure the integrity of the Annual Further details of the Groups whistleblowing policy and approach Report and Accounts, as well as reviewing: to the management of ethical conduct are set out in the Sustainability Report on page 39. the management representation letter to the external auditor: the findings and opinions of the external auditor: 3.
External auditor the disclosures in relation to internal controls and the work of the Committee: considering the re-appointment of the external auditor: that the information presented in the Annual Report and considering and approving the audit approach and scope of the Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and audit undertaken by Deloitte as external auditor and the fees for understandable and contains all relevant information necessary the same: for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, agreeing reporting materiality thresholds: business model and strategy and the processes undertaken reviewing reports on audit findings: to support the disclosure of that information: considering and approving letters of representation issued to the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures Deloitte: and designed to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts considering the independence of Deloitte and their effectiveness, complies with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements: taking into account: the process designed to ensure the external auditor is aware non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor: of all relevant audit information, as required by sections 418 and 419 of the Companies Act 2006: and feedback from a survey targeted at various stakeholders: and the Directors Report.
56 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance The Committee also reviewed the progress updates against the Internal control and risk management systems 2018 activity of internal audit, received reports on issues of The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent significance to the Group and reported to the Board on its of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its particular evaluation of these findings.
During the year, the Committee objectives and is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness of the carried out an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal risk management and internal control systems that safeguard audit function.
This assessment incorporated feedback from the shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
To ensure operating company leadership teams and Group functions.
the effectiveness of these systems, at the Boards request, a robust The Committee discussed the feedback with the Head of Internal assessment of the principal risks facing the Group is undertaken by Audit and it was agreed that the Groups internal audit processes the Committee.
Before reporting its findings and recommendations to the Board, External auditor the Committee: The Committee is responsible for managing the relationship with evaluates and challenges the results and recommendations the Groups external auditor on behalf of the Board.
of audits undertaken by the internal audit team and the The Company last undertook a tender for external audit services external auditor: during 2016 which led to the appointment of Deloitte LLP at the reviews reports received on significant control issues to the May 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The lead audit partner Group and considers and challenges as necessary the adequacy is Mark Mullins who has held the role since May 2017. of managements response to any matters raised: During the year, the Committee carried out an assessment of the appraises the Groups response to information security and data external auditor which focused on their performance during the protection risks: 2017 audit and reported these findings to the Board.
To support considers the Groups ethics programme and the anti-bribery and this assessment, the Committee invited members of the Group corruption audit programme: and operating company finance teams to provide their feedback.
considers common control themes identified throughout the In addition, the Committee reviewed the Audit Quality Inspection business, and where themes are identified, ensures that public report for 2017 18 for Deloitte.
After taking these reports subsequent action has been taken to minimise the risk: into consideration, together with the auditors report on their approach to audit quality and transparency, the Committee assesses the Groups responsibilities relating to regulated concluded that the auditors demonstrated appropriate exposures of the Group: qualifications and expertise and remained independent of the reviews the annual Audit and Risk Committee agenda: and Group and that the audit process was effective.
has oversight of the governance and risk management The Committee reviewed the proposed engagement letter for the framework, including a definition of risk appetite by risk category audit of the 2018 Financial Statements and determined the and principal risk, put in place throughout the Group.
proposed remuneration of Deloitte in accordance with the authority The effectiveness of risk management and mitigation is reviewed given to it by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
The Committee regularly by the Executive Committee and twice yearly by the Audit considered the proposed auditors remuneration to be appropriate.
The Board notes that, as with all such systems, It is proposed that Deloitte be re-appointed as auditors of the the Groups risk management and internal control framework is Company at the next AGM in May 2019 and, if so re-appointed, designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve that they will hold office until the conclusion of the next general business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
Further details absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which is available at Viability Statement www.
The Committee reviewed the 2018 Viability Statement in light of The Group will continue the practice of the rotation of the audit factors affecting the duration over which the Viability Statement is engagement partner at least every five years, with all other made, including the strategic planning process, the three-year partners and senior management required to rotate at least every period over which the potential impact and velocity of material risks seven years.
The independent external auditors report to are evaluated, the duration of the Groups sources of credit and shareholders is set out on pages 84 to 91.
As detailed above, future prospects.
The Committee remains of the view that the the Company complied with the Statutory Audit Services Order statement made regarding the Companys viability period continues 2014 throughout 2018. to be an accurate assessment of the Companys viability as at the date of the report.
Non-audit fees The Committee believes that non-audit work may only be The Viability Statement is set out on page 37. undertaken by the external auditor in limited circumstances.
Independent assurance A cumulative annual cap is imposed for non-audit services provided by our external auditor save for acquisition due diligence, Internal audit above which all engagements are subject to the Committees The Committee has oversight responsibilities for the internal audit prior approval.
function, which is led by the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committees non-audit services policy is available at The purpose of the internal audit function is to provide www.
Non-audit fees for services provided by Deloitte independent, objective assurance to add value and improve the for the year amounted to 0.1 million 5% of the audit fee.
Its responsibilities include assessing the key risks Further details are included in Note 5 to the Financial Statements.
of the organisation and examining, evaluating and reporting on the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of internal control and Performance review risk management in place, and the governance processes in The Committees performance was assessed during the year operation throughout the Group.
under the stewardship of the Committee Chairman and this review During the year, the Committee considered the internal audit was fed into the wider Board evaluation process which was led by programme for the forthcoming year and reviewed the proposed the Chairman.
It was concluded that the Committee audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
