Governance BOARD ACTIVITY Board diversity policy Board evaluation In 2018, the Board reviewed its approach to the promotion In accordance with current best practice and the Code, the Board of diversity and approved the following policy: undertakes an annual formal evaluation of its performance and effectiveness and that of each Director and its Committees, with The Board is committed to further promoting diversity and an external evaluation every three years.
The most recent external inclusiveness of all kinds throughout the Group, regardless of evaluation took place in 2016 and was led by Dr Tracy Long.
The Board agrees that diversity, which 2017 and 2018 evaluations were undertaken internally and were should be construed in its broadest sense and includes gender and led by the Chairman.
The evaluations were supplemented by ethnic diversity, is an important factor in Board effectiveness and individual evaluation exercises for each Board Committee which the Group is a supportive participant of the Hampton-Alexander were managed by the relevant Committee chairman.
A summary Review which sets a target for the percentage of women on FTSE of activity undertaken by the Board during the year in support of boards and leadership teams to reach one third by 2020. the findings of the 2017 evaluation process is set out below: In support of this policy, the Company has only engaged search Strategy and stakeholder considerations: The Board worked firms during the year which have signed up to the Voluntary Code closely with the new Chief Executive to monitor and challenge of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and the progress of the Groups strategic review and the impact of best practice.
the proposed strategy on the Groups key stakeholders, During the year, the Nomination Committee has thoroughly particularly employees, customers and shareholders.
reviewed gender composition at senior management levels within Risk management: The Board began a series of deep dive the Group and also undertook a deep dive review of diverse talent discussions on each principal risk during the year.
These deep within the organisation and the approach of management to the dive discussions will continue as part of the ordinary Board development of that talent.
During 2019, the Nomination Committee will continue to review Board meetings: A comprehensive Board planner was the Groups progress against the Hampton-Alexander Review and introduced during the year to ensure that the structure and will further consider the Groups approach to talent management planning of Board meetings supported the effective focus on key and succession planning.
issues and allowed sufficient opportunities for open dialogue and debate.
Ongoing Board training and development Succession planning: The Nomination Committee focused Board meetings are held regularly at our operating company sites, heavily on executive and senior management succession planning giving the Board the opportunity to tour the sites, meet local during the year, including the review of senior talent and diversity management and employees and gain an in-depth knowledge in the talent pipeline.
The Nomination Committee and the wider of the Groups operations.
Further details of the Boards site visits Board also spent considerable time overseeing the search and during the year are set out below.
selection process for a new Chief Executive and Chief Financial In addition, during 2018 the Board received detailed overviews Officer.
of the Groups Lean programme and Supply Chain Management Board continuing development: Site visits to Servomex and programme from the Groups subject matter experts and technical Millbrook supported the Boards deepening knowledge of both updates were also provided by the General Counsel and Company businesses and gave the Board an additional opportunity to meet Secretary and the Groups remuneration consultants.
with key management below the Group Executive team.
The Non-executive Directors have access to an externally-provided The 2018 evaluation took place in December 2018 and built on the programme of training to enable them to undertake their own outcomes of the 2017 evaluation ahead of a formal, externally-led programme of continuing professional development.
evaluation process being undertaken in 2019.
During its visit to Servomex in April, the Board received a presentation from the new president, Trevor Sands, which included an overview of the business and its strategy.
Trevor also led the Board in a tour of the facility, which highlighted the operating companys approach to health and safety and also the implementation of the Lean production system.
In October, the Board visited Millbrook Proving Ground left and toured recent changes to the facility, including the recently expanded equipment and facilities for testing low emission vehicle technology and the work Millbrook is undertaking to support Transport for London on its new Bus Safety Standard.
During both visits, the Board was able to meet with the management team and key employees outside of the formal meetings.
Spectris plc 49 2018 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Activity to support the application of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code Culture The new Code requires that the Board satisfies itself that and the Companys purpose, values and strategy are aligned Values with the Companys culture.
Further, the Board should assess and monitor the Companys culture on an ongoing basis, lead by example and promote the desired culture.
Remuneration Under the new Code, the Remuneration Committee is required to review workforce compensation and related policies and the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture, and to take this review into account in the setting of the policy for Executive Director remuneration.
The new Code emphasises that the Board should Workforce understand the views of key stakeholders and ensure that and the Annual Report includes an explanation of how their Stakeholder interests have been considered in decision-making.
Engagement Stakeholder engagement mechanisms should be kept under review and, in particular, the new Code prescribes how the Board should engage with the workforce.
Workforce Engagement Director WED In December 2018, Russell King was appointed as the Board lead for workforce engagement.
The role profile for the Workforce Engagement Director was agreed by the Board and includes: Being available to the workforce if they have concerns which matters, and any follow-up actions, are proportionate and escalation through the normal company channels has failed appropriately managed.
to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Providing timely and appropriately detailed feedback to the Attending, where appropriate, sufficient meetings with Board as a whole on any workforce concerns or issues workforce representatives to obtain a balanced understanding raised, whilst observing the confidentiality of individuals who of the issues and concerns of the workforce.
have raised concerns, and supporting an appropriate focus being placed on workforce considerations during relevant Reviewing employee engagement mechanisms annually with Board deliberations.
the Board to ensure they remain effective.
In completing these duties, the Workforce Engagement Director Periodically reviewing the channels available for the workforce will be supported by the Group HR Director and the General to raise concerns in confidence and if they wish Counsel and Company Secretary.
anonymously, to consider whether such arrangements are proportionate and whether independent investigation of such 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance In late 2018, the Group Executive team began a review of the Groups culture in support of the wider Group strategic review announced in November 2018.
During 2019, the Board will oversee this review of the culture of the Group and assess progress against the Groups agreed strategy with culture being included as a specific item of discussion on the Boards annual agenda plan.
In support of this new focus, the Board approved new Matters Reserved to the Board and revised extended terms of reference for all key Board Committees in December 2018 to reflect The Board will the proposed focus on culture.
Copies of each document are available at www.
implement and iterate their approach to applying the 2018 During 2018, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the requirements of the new Code and devised an UK Corporate extended work plan for 2019, which has now also been reflected in the Committees terms of reference.
Governance Code During 2019, the Committee will review wider workforce remuneration, pension and related matters, during 2019 to including CEO average pay, and will also consider the Groups gender pay gap in conjunction with the ensure that the Nomination Committee further details are set out on page 40. approach to As part of the Boards ongoing oversight of the culture of the Group, consideration will also be given to implementation how the Group rewards appropriate behaviours and the Committee will review the best way to capture provides optimal culture and behaviour in the 2020 Remuneration Policy.
support to the The Nomination Committee will begin the recruitment process for the successor to Russell King as Groups strategic Remuneration Committee Chairman in 2019 and will ensure the successful candidate has the preaims.
A summary appointment experience that the new Code now requires of any new Remuneration Committee Chairman.
of the application of the new Code will be detailed in In December 2018, the Board appointed Russell King as Workforce Engagement Director and the 2019 Annual an agenda for workforce engagement in 2019 was agreed.
Further details are set out below.
Report and The Ethics and Compliance Enhancement Programme, together with the Spectris independent Accounts.
reporting hotline, will support further in-depth reporting in 2019 on HR issues and nonfinancial matters, for review and consideration by the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board.
The Board has built into its review and decision-making processes the consideration of stakeholder interests which is now captured in all Board papers in a proportionate and appropriate way relevant to the matter to be considered.
A proportionate shareholder engagement programme will be launched during 2019 to support the successful agreement of the Groups Remuneration Policy by shareholders, in advance of a binding shareholder vote at the 2020 AGM.
Proposed Workforce Engagement activities for 2019 The Board has endorsed the following workplan for the Workforce Engagement Director for 2019: The Workforce Engagement Director will attend informal A deep dive review of workforce remuneration will meetings with employee stakeholder groups which will include be undertaken with the support of the Group HR Director a cross-section of roles and perspectives, including graduates, and the results of this review will be shared with the apprentices and managers at key sites.
Remuneration Committee and be used as support for the Groups Remuneration Policy review.
A deep dive review of HR cases and themes arising from the Groups Speak Up process detailed on page 39 will be Detailed briefings will be provided on key employee undertaken with the support of the General Counsel engagement activity undertaken by management and the and Company Secretary.
key outcomes of this activity.
This plan will be subject to iteration and change as the year progresses to support the Board in achieving effective workforce engagement.
