NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee has continued to take a keen interest in the development of talent and capabilities below Board level.
Detailed terms of reference for the Committee can be found The Nomination Committee recognises that ongoing and at www.
effective talent management is key to achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
Membership and attendees During 2018, the Committee has continued to take a keen interest Throughout 2018, all Non-executive Directors were members of the in the development of talent and capabilities below Board level, Committee.
Meetings of the Committee are normally attended by challenging management to ensure that appropriate opportunities the Chief Executive and Group HR Director except during any are in place to develop high-performing individuals and to build discussion of their own role.
diversity in senior roles across the Group.
From this review we have Activities of the Committee during 2018 built greater clarity and a common understanding with management of the key talent within the Group and this common During the year, the Committees key activities included: understanding will strengthen the Groups overall capabilities in the the search and selection process for a new Chief Executive which near term.
The development of talent within the organisation will culminated in the recommendation of Andrew Heaths be the subject of ongoing dialogue in 2019. appointment to the Board: The Committee also spent considerable time selecting and the search and selection process for a new Chief Financial Officer recommending the appointment of a new Chief Executive.
The which culminated in the recommendation of Derek Hardings process undertaken, which led to the appointment of Andrew appointment to the Board: Heath, is set out in detail on the opposite page.
reviewing and challenging the Groups talent management and Mark Williamson succession planning at a Group Executive and operating Chairman of the Nomination Committee company management level: 19 February 2019 undertaking a detailed review of diverse candidates within the Groups talent pipeline, in support of the Board diversity policy Role of the Committee see page 49 for details : The Committee leads the process for Board appointments and considering the independence of each Non-executive Director makes recommendations to the Board in this regard.
In fulfilling and their time commitments: and this role, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, experience, providing continued oversight of a Group-wide organisational independence and knowledge on the Board.
The Board values capability review.
diversity and, when recruiting new Board members, addresses The Committees performance was assessed as part of the Boards the issue of diversity, with particular regard to the percentage annual effectiveness review.
It was concluded that the Committee of women on the Board.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are: During 2019, the Committee will continue to focus on succession reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board: planning and supporting the diverse composition of the Board, recommending membership of Board Committees: Executive and senior management in support of the Boards undertaking succession planning for the Chairman, Executive diversity policy as set out on page 49.
Directors and senior management: Focus will also be placed on non-executive succession planning, and searching for candidates for the Board, and recommending in particular succession for Russell King who will have served on the Directors for appointment: Board for nine years in October 2019.
The Board has asked Mr King to remain on the Board until the 2020 AGM to support both determining the independence of Directors: succession planning and the setting of the Groups Remuneration assessing whether Directors are able to commit enough time Policy in 2020.
In planning succession, the Committee will pay to discharge their responsibilities: and particular attention to the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Codes reviewing the induction and training needs of Directors.
criteria for Remuneration Committee Chairmen and the fact the Company has yet to reach the 2020 target set out in the HamptonAlexander Review of 33% female representation on the Board.
52 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board composition As at 31 December 2018 Gender diversity Non-executive Director tenure Board 77.8% 22.2% 6-9 years 0-3 years 2 2 Executive Committee 87.5% 12.5% Executive Committee and direct reports 81.0% 19.0% 3-6 years 2 Male Female See page 49 for details of the Companys Board diversity policy.
The Selection Committee then determined a shortlist of Appointment of the new Chief Executive internal and external candidates based on the agreed criteria In May 2018, the Group announced that, after 12 years in the and then undertook a two-stage in person interview process role, John OHiggins intended to step down from the role of with each candidate.
Chief Executive once a replacement had been appointed to The wider Nomination Committee was briefed on progress the Board.
by the Selection Committee and Egon Zehnder.
The remaining The Board commenced a rigorous process to identify and members of the Nomination Committee then met with appoint a new Chief Executive.
A Selection Committee was preferred candidates ahead of a recommendation being made formed as a sub-set of the Nomination Committee which was to the Board to appoint Andrew Heath as Chief Executive.
led by the Chairman and comprised Russell King, Bill Seeger and Following the identification of Mr Heath as the preferred Martha Wyrsch.
candidate, the Remuneration Committee sought to agree The key stages in the selection and appointment process were, a competitive remuneration package to secure his appointment.
as follows: This was achieved within the Groups existing Remuneration The Selection Committee had a number of discussions Policy and further details are set out on pages 60 to 78. to scope the key skills, experience, behaviours and style What Andrew Heath brings to the role of leadership that would be required to successfully lead Education: Bachelor of Science, Imperial College London and the Group as Chief Executive.
The specific qualities Masters of Business Administration, Loughborough University.
identified included: Experience: Two previous UK listed CEO roles and almost a strong track record of leading strategic direction and 30 years experience at Rolls-Royce plc where he held driving a growth agenda: significant and global leadership roles.
broad knowledge and demonstrable expertise of operating Expertise: strategy, industrial, financial, mergers and in the industrial manufacturing and engineering sectors: acquisitions and investor.
credible relationships with relevant external stakeholders, Industry experience: engineering, manufacturing, technology including significant investor experience: and B2B.
proven understanding and application of building Our Chief Executive search was conducted in a organisational capability: and collaborative and thoughtful manner, with keen focus leadership experience within a strong values-based culture.
from all members of our Board of Directors, led by our The Committee engaged Egon Zehnder to work with the Chairman and the Selection Committee.
The deliberate Committee to establish a long list of candidates including pace resulted in a thorough review of a number of diverse diverse and internal candidates who were then considered candidates and ensured that we selected a leader with the against the Selection Committees specifications for the role.
skills and acumen to drive Spectris forward with Egon Zehnder is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct momentum and vitality.
for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice and, aside from assisting with the recruitment and Martha Wyrsch development of senior leaders, has no other links with the Company.
Due to the public announcement made regarding John OHiggins departure, it was not considered necessary to separately publicly advertise the role.
