s n o i t i s i u q c A L e a d e r s y h g i e p t a a r n t d S p e o p l e KEY AREAS OF BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
This is achieved through the appropriate consideration of strategic, operational, financial and risk matters.
This page details the focus of the Board during 2018 in support of that responsibility.
Strategy Leadership and people Governance and ethics Held a detailed annual strategy off-site Discussed the composition of the Board Appointment and induction of the meeting for the Board and Executive.
and its Committees, including new Chief Executive.
Commenced a strategic review, to target Discussed the outcome of the 2017 asset optimisation, capital allocation and Reviewed the Groups talent pipeline and internal Board evaluation and agreed portfolio composition.
undertook a deep dive review of diverse opportunities for improvement.
Reviewed the Groups operating model, Completion of 2018 internal evaluation to reduce complexity and support Lean Reviewed the development of people of the Board, Remuneration Committee, practices.
within the senior management Nomination Committee and Audit and community, including succession Risk Committee, led, respectively, by the Acquisitions, disposals and JVs planning for senior leaders.
Chairman and the Chairmen of the Approved the acquisitions of Concept Board Committees.
Life Sciences, Revolutionary Engineering Reviewed feedback from and VI-grade.
Deep dive review of the Groups people institutional shareholders.
Reviewed and approved the terms of review of Millbrook.
Appointed Workforce Engagement reference for the Board Committees.
Undertook a high-level review of the Director as Board lead for workforce Reviewed and considered the Groups Groups approach to the mitigation engagement.
response to the 2018 Hamptonof the acquisition principal risk.
Reviewed the Groups acquisition Monitored progress against the 2018 Received updates from the General pipeline.
financial plan and considered and Counsel and Company Secretary on Oversaw the finalisation of the formation approved the 2019 financial plan.
developments in corporate governance of a joint venture with Macquarie Capital Reviewed and monitored the impact and and key legal and regulatory matters.
through the divestment of 55% of the progress of Project Uplift.
Regular review of ongoing Groups EMS Brel & Kjr business.
Approved the Annual Report, interim litigation matters.
Operations and risk results and full half-year results Reviewed the Groups workplan to Received regular operational updates presentations to analysts.
support compliance with the 2018 from the Business Group Directors.
Considered and approved the Groups UK Corporate Governance Code.
Attended site visits to Servomex and going concern and viability statements.
Conducted regular meetings of the Millbrook facilities and received business Reviewed the dividend policy Non-executive Directors without updates from the Presidents of Millbrook and recommended the final and management being present.
Undertook an annual detailed review Received presentations from members Reviewed material capital expenditure of the Groups ethics programme.
of the leadership team responsible for requests from operating companies.
Lean and Supply Chain Management.
Reviewed the Groups principal risks and systems for identification, management and mitigation.
Reviewed the Groups approach to the identification and management of political and economic risk.
