BOARD OF DIRECTORS Mark Williamson 61 Chairman appointed May 2017 Nationality: British N Mark Williamson is a qualified accountant with a strong financial background combined with considerable managerial experience.
He was chief financial officer of International Power plc until 2012 and is experienced in managing relationships with the investor and financial communities.
Prior to joining International Power plc, Mark was group financial controller and group chief accountant of Simon Group.
He is also a former senior independent non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Alent plc.
Mark is chairman of Imperial Brands plc and senior independent non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of National Grid plc.
On 11 February 2019, Imperial Brands plc announced that Mark would step down as chairman once a suitable successor had been found.
Andrew Heath 55 Chief Executive appointed September 2018 Nationality: British E D Andrew brings a wide range of executive and leadership expertise to Spectris, with proven experience in technology-enabled businesses and a track record of delivering shareholder value.
He previously served as CEO of Imagination Technologies Group plc from 2016 to 2018 and before that was CEO of Alent plc.
Prior to this, Andrew had a 30-year career with Rolls-Royce where he held a number of international and senior management roles, latterly serving as the president of energy from 2010 to 2015.
Andrew has a BSc in engineering from Imperial College London and an MBA from Loughborough University.
Clive Watson 61 Group Finance Director appointed October 2006 Nationality: British E D Clive Watson has considerable finance experience, having previously been chief financial officer and executive vice president for business support at Borealis.
Prior to this, he was group finance director at Thorn Lighting Group and group finance director Europe at Black & Decker.
Clive is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
On 15 January 2019 it was announced that Clive will retire from the Board no later than 1 April 2019 following a handover period with Derek Harding.
Clive is senior independent non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
Russell King 61 Senior Independent Director and Workforce Engagement Director appointed October 2010 Nationality: British R N Russell King has considerable international experience acquired across a number of sectors, including mining and chemicals, together with strong experience in strategy and human resources.
He was previously chief strategy officer of Anglo American PLC and a non-executive director of Anglo Platinum Ltd.
Prior to that, he spent more than 20 years in senior roles at ICI.
Russell is chairman of Hummingbird Resources plc, senior independent non-executive director of Interserve plc and an independent non-executive at BDO LLP.
Karim Bitar 54 Non-executive Director appointed July 2017 Nationality: American A R N Karim Bitar has extensive experience of leading international, technology-focused organisations.
He is currently chief executive of Genus plc.
Prior to joining Genus, Karim worked for more than 15 years for Eli Lilly and Company, where he was president of Lilly Europe, Canada and Australia.
An ex-McKinsey and Company consultant, he also held management roles at Johnson and Johnson and the Dow Chemical Company.
Karim is a member of the University of Michigan Ross School of Business Advisory Board.
Derek Harding, Chief Financial Officer Designate On 15 January 2019, the Group announced that Derek Harding would join the Board as Chief Financial Officer Designate on 1 March and would succeed Clive Watson as Chief Financial Officer no later than 1 April 2019.
Derek brings a wide range of financial leadership and industrial expertise to Spectris.
He most recently served as group finance director at Shop Direct.
Prior to that, Derek was group finance director at Senior plc from 2013 to 2017 and before that, he was at Wolseley plc for 11 years, most recently as finance director of Wolseley UK.
He previously held a number of group roles including group financial controller, director of group strategy and investor relations, and head of mergers and acquisitions.
Derek qualified as a chartered accountant with PwC.
46 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Ulf Quellmann 53 Non-executive Director appointed January 2015 Nationality: German A R N Ulf Quellmann has broad general management experience and considerable knowledge of the metals, minerals and mining industry, having worked in the sector for more than16 years.
He is currently the chief executive officer of Turquoise Hill Resources Limited a company listed on the Toronto and New York Stock Exchanges.
Prior to that he was vice president, strategic projects of the copper and diamonds product group at Rio Tinto plc and, before that, chief financial officer of the copper and diamonds product group.
He was also group treasurer from 2008 to 2016.
He has held senior positions at Alcan Inc. including vice president, investor relations and media relations, and chief pension investment officer and assistant treasurer, and senior management positions at General Motors, in both the USA and the UK.
Bill Seeger 67 Non-executive Director appointed January 2015 Nationality: American A N Bill Seeger has significant corporate finance and accounting experience, having formerly been group finance director of GKN plc and, prior to that, president and CEO of the propulsion systems and special products division and CFO in the aerospace division of GKN.
He spent most of his career at TRW, latterly in senior finance roles, including as vice-president, financial planning and analysis, and vice-president, finance, of TRW Automotive.
Bill is senior independent non-executive director and chair of the remuneration committee of Smiths Group plc and visiting professor at UCLA Anderson School of Management.
Kjersti Wiklund 56 Non-executive Director appointed January 2017 Nationality: Norwegian R N Kjersti Wiklund brings significant knowledge of the international telecommunications sector.
Kjersti has held a series of senior global roles, including: director, group technology operations at Vodafone: chief operating officer of VimpelCom Russia: deputy chief executive officer and chief technology officer of Kyivstar in Ukraine: executive vice-president and chief technology officer of Digi Telecommunications in Malaysia: and executive vice-president and chief information officer at Telenor in Norway.
Kjersti was previously a non-executive director of Laird plc in the UK, Cxense ASA and Fast Search & Transfer ASA in Norway and Telescience Inc in the USA.
Kjersti is a non-executive director of Babcock International Group PLC.
Martha Wyrsch 61 Non-executive Director appointed June 2012 Nationality: American A N Martha Wyrsch has held a number of senior executive positions in the energy industry and has significant experience in North American markets.
She currently holds the position of executive vice-president and general counsel of Sempra Energy, a company quoted on the New York Stock Exchange.
Previously, she was president of Vestas Americas, a subsidiary of Vestas Wind Systems A S, and prior to that she was president and CEO of Spectra Energy Transmission.
She was previously a non-executive director of SPX Corporation.
Martha is a director of the Cristo Rey Network a US non-profit educational foundation, IEnova, S. A.
B. a Mexican subsidiary of Sempra Energy with publicly-traded shares and a non-executive director of First American Financial Corporation.
Martha will retire from Sempra and will step down from all associated subsidiary boards on 1 March 2019.
Mark Serfz General Counsel and Company Secretary appointed October 2017 E D Mark joined Spectris from Rolls-Royce where he served as director of risk for four years and before that he spent 18 years at BAE Systems plc where he held a number of senior legal positions including, latterly, the role of group chief counsel compliance and regulation.
Mark qualified as a solicitor in 1990 and is a member of the University College London Centre for Ethics and Law Advisory Board.
Committee membership key A Audit and Risk D Disclosure N Nomination E Executive Remuneration R Chairman of Committee Membership as at 31 December 2018 Spectris plc 47
