CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK remuneration, accountability and relations The Board acknowledges the revised UK with shareholders.
The Code is published Corporate Governance Code published by CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE As a premium listed company on the by the UK Financial Reporting Council the FRC in July 2018 the 2018 Code, and, FRC and a copy of the Code is available in line with reporting requirements, will London Stock Exchange, the Company is reporting in accordance with the UK from the FRC website at www.
report to shareholders on the Companys compliance with the 2018 Code in its 2019 Corporate Governance Code the 2016 The Board confirms that the Company Code published in April 2016 which sets Annual Report.
has complied in full with the 2016 Code out standards of good practice in relation throughout the period under review.
to board leadership and effectiveness, Index to 2016 Code disclosures Page Leadership Every company should be headed by an effective board which is Board of directors 56-57 collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company.
The Board 59 There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Chairman and CEO 59 company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for running of the companys business.
The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its Chairman and CEO 59 effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors Non-executive Directors 59 should constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Board composition 62 Effectiveness The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of Board of directors 56-57 skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable Nomination Committee Report 66-67 them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Election and Re-election of 60 appointment of new directors to the board.
directors 62 Appointments to the Board 66-67 Nomination Committee Report All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to Commitment 62 discharge their responsibilities effectively.
All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should Board development 63 regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a Information flow 63 form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of Board performance evaluation 62 its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, Election and Re-election of 60 subject to continued satisfactory performance.
directors Re-election of directors 67 Accountability The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable Strategic Report 2-53 assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Directors Report 96-100 The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the Risk Management 24-25 principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Internal control and risk 71 board should maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
management Audit Committee Report 68-73 The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for Audit Committee Report 68-73 considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
Remuneration Executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote the Directors report on remuneration74-95 long-term success of the company.
Performance-related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on Directors report on remuneration74-95 executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Relations These should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual Relations with shareholders 64-65 with understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
shareholders The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors Stakeholder engagement 65 and to encourage their participation.
58 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION LEADERSHIP approved and adopted at the March 2018 Company Secretary & General Counsel, with The Board Board meeting.
the VP Global Operations and Global Head The Board of Directors is collectively of Human Resources joining the Executive responsible to the Companys shareholders Certain specific responsibilities are Committee in December 2018. delegated to the committees of the for the direction and oversight of the Company to ensure its long-term success.
Board, notably the Audit, Nomination Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committees, which The role of Senior Independent Director is The Board met regularly throughout the operate within clearly defined terms of to act as a sounding board for the Chairman year to approve the Groups strategic reference and report regularly to the Board.
and to serve as an intermediary for other objectives, to lead the Group within a For further details, please see the reports of directors as necessary.
He is also available framework of effective controls which each Committee that follow this statement.
to shareholders to convey concerns to the enable risk to be assessed and managed Board which they have been unable to and to ensure that sufficient resources are Chairman and CEO convey through the Chairman or through The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are available to meet the objectives set.
During the year, separately held and the division of their led by the Senior Independent Director, the There are a number of matters which responsibilities is clearly established, set out Non-executive Directors have met without are specifically reserved for the Boards in writing, and agreed by the Board to ensure the presence of the Chairman including to approval.
These are set out in a clearly that no one person has unfettered powers appraise the Chairmans performance.
defined schedule which includes: matters of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for relating to the Groups strategic plan: the operation and leadership of the Board, Non-executive Directors ensuring its effectiveness and setting its approving the annual business strategy In addition to their responsibilities for and objectives: the nature and extent of agenda.
The CEO is responsible for leading strategy and business results, the Nonand managing the Groups business within principal risks to be taken to achieve the executive Directors play a key role in strategic objectives: changes relating to a set of authorities delegated by the Board providing a solid foundation for good and the implementation of Board strategy structure and capital: approval of trading corporate governance and ensure that no statements, half year results, final results and policy.
individual or group dominates the Boards and annual report and accounts: declaring decision making.
They each occupy, or Authority for the operational management interim dividends and recommending final have occupied, senior positions in industry, of the Groups business has been delegated dividends: the Groups policies and systems bringing valuable external perspective to to the CEO for execution or further of internal control and risk management, the Boards deliberations through their delegation by him for the effective day-toapproving capital projects, acquisitions experience and insight from other sectors day running and management of the Group.
and disposals valued at over $2 million: and enabling them to contribute significantly The Group Executive Committee, led by the provision of adequate succession planning.
The formal CEO, consists of the CFO, the EVP Global letters of appointment of the Non-executive The schedule of matters reserved for the Sales, the EVP Strategic Marketing and the Directors are available for inspection at the Board was reviewed during the year and Companys registered office.
BOARD Non-executive Chairman, two Executive Directors, four Independent Non-executive Directors AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Four Independent Four Independent Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors Four Independent Provides oversight and governance Agrees remuneration policy Non-executive Directors over the Groups financial reporting, and sets individual compensation Primary responsibility for succession planning, internal controls, risk management and levels for executive directors directorselection and Board composition relationshipwith external auditor and senior management Committee report pages 66 and 67 Committee report pages 68 to 73 Committee report pages 74 to 95 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CEO, CFO GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CEO, CFO, EVP Global Sales, EVP Strategic Marketing, Company Secretary & General Counsel, VP Global Operations, Global Head of Human Resources Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board Committees The written terms of reference for the Company Secretary The Board has established three Audit, Nomination and Remuneration In his role of Company Secretary and principal Board committees, to Committees, all of which were reviewed, General Counsel, Angus Iveson is which it has delegated certain of its updated where necessary and approved responsible for advising and supporting responsibilities.
These are the Audit during the year, are available on the the Chairman and the Board on corporate Committee, the Nomination Committee Companys website at governance matters as well as ensuring and the Remuneration Committee.
com that there is a smooth flow of information The membership, responsibilities to enable effective decision making.
Election and re-election of Directors and activities of these committees All Directors have access to the advice are described later in this Corporate In accordance with the 2016 Codes and services of the Company Secretary recommendations, all Directors who wish to Governance statement and, in the case of and can take independent professional the Remuneration Committee, in the Report continue in their roles will be proposed for advice in respect of their duties, at the election or re-election at the 2019 Annual on directors remuneration beginning on Companys expense.
Membership of these committees General Meeting to be held in May.
Board meetings is reviewed annually and minutes of The Board confirms that each of the committee meetings are made available to The Board held eight meetings during Directors standing for re-election has been the year, including a two-day strategy all directors on a timely basis.
subject to a formal performance evaluation meeting held at the Companys site in The chairmen of the Audit, Nomination in relation to their duty to act in the longCalabasas, California.
term interests of the Company, while also and Remuneration Committees intend to be present at the Annual General Meeting having regard to other stakeholders.
to answer questions on the work of their respective committees.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Bill Thomas 8 8 3 3 Paula Bell 8 8 Eric Hutchinson 8 8 Gary Bullard 8 8 4 4 3 3 8 8 1 Wendy Koh 7 7 4 4 2 2 8 8 2 Edgar Masri 7 7 4 4 2 2 8 8 Jonathan Silver 8 8 4 4 3 3 8 8 Notes 1.
Wendy Koh was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2018.
Edgar Masri was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2018.
60 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Senior executives below Board level are Directors indemnity provisions Board activities during 2018 invited, when appropriate, to attend Board In accordance with its Articles of At each Board meeting, the CEO presents meetings and to make presentations Association, the Company has granted an update on the performance, strategy relating to the results and strategies of a qualifying third party indemnity, to the and business issues across the Group and their business units and Group-wide extent permitted by law, to each Director.
the CFO presents a detailed analysis of the responsibilities.
Papers for Board and The Company also maintains directors and financial performance of the business units.
Committee meetings are provided to officers liability insurance.
Senior executives below Board level attend Directors in advance of the meeting.
relevant parts of Board meetings in order These provisions are qualifying third The attendance of the Directors at Board to make presentations on their areas of and Committee meetings during the year party indemnity provisions as defined in responsibility: this gives the Board access Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. under review is shown in the table above.
to a broader group of executives and helps If a Director is unable to participate in a Neither the Companys indemnity nor the the Directors make ongoing assessments insurance provides cover in the event that a meeting either in person or remotely, the of the Groups succession plans.
The Board Chairman will solicit their views on key director is proven to have acted dishonestly has a rolling programme of visits to or fraudulently.
terms of business in advance of the relevant business unit locations to deepen its meeting, so that these can be shared with appreciation of the different opportunities the meeting.
and challenges that each unit faces.
Key issues considered by the Board during 2018 Governance Compliance Finance Business Strategy January NED succession update 2017 Full Year results review Group performance review March Stakeholder engagement 2017 Full Year compliance and Viability Statement review Sector industry review Annual Report review Dividend policy review Business initiatives update Legal review Capital policy review and review Receive Audit Committee report on internal controls and risk management May AGM voting review 2018 Q1 results review Group performance review Stakeholder engagement update Tax strategy update Strategic benchmarking June Group performance review Strategy presentations August 2018 Half-year compliance review 2018 Half-year results review Group performance review Board evaluation kick-off CFO update Channel strategy review Regulatory and legal review Insurance review Succession planning and leadership programme review October Stakeholder engagement update Group performance review Governance Code update Sales organisation review Strategic Marketing review November Board evaluation results review 2018 Q3 results review Group performance review Governance compliance review Treasury policy review Sales organisation review Legal review Pension update M&A landscape review CEO succession planning December Governance compliance review Budget 2019 Group performance review Workforce engagement review Sales organisation review CEO succession update Future investments review Cyber security review Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS Appointments to the Board Commitment Board composition There is a formal, rigorous and transparent The letters of appointment for the At the date of this Report, the Board procedure for the appointment of new Chairman and non-executive directors comprises the Non-executive Chairman, directors to the Board.
Details are available set out the expected time commitment four Independent Non-executive Directors in the Nomination Committee report on required of them and are available for and two Executive Directors.
pages 66 and 67 which also provides details inspection at the Companys registered of the Committees role and activities.
office and at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors contribute entrepreneurial BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 2018 actions leadership and external expertise and An evaluation to assess the performance Further explore the articulation of experience in areas of importance to the of the Board as a whole, its committees Spirents strategic vision: Company, such as strategic investments, and that of the individual directors is Continue to review the effectiveness of corporate finance, general finance conducted annually.
research and development spend: and corporate governance.
They also Deepen visibility of product contribute independent challenge and In accordance with the 2016 Code development investment decisions rigour to the Boards deliberations and requirement that the evaluation should and understanding of progress of assist in the development of the Companys be conducted by an external facilitator such investments: strategy, scrutiny of the performance of at least every three years, in 2018 Increase exposure to senior management in meeting agreed goals and Independent Audit Limited IAL was management for the purposes of targets, and satisfying themselves of the engaged to undertake a review of developing internal talent pipeline: integrity of the Companys internal controls the Board and its Committees.
IAL is Monitor effectiveness of revised and risk management systems.
The Board independent, with no other connection internal control procedures: and believes that all of the directors devote with the Company.
Review Go To Market approach.
sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
Process All respondents to the 2018 evaluation Following a scoping exercise with the agreed that the conduct of Board The Chairman holds regular discussions Chairman, Company Secretary and IAL meetings allows for an open and with the Non-executive Directors without to agree the priority areas and issues to constructive communication style and the Executive Directors present to ensure be addressed in the review, the Directors that the appointment of new Nona free and frank exchange of views on the and Company Secretary completed an executive Directors would continue to effectiveness of the Executive Directors online questionnaire, centring on themes expand the breadth of market and sector and senior management.
including the strengths and values of the experience to the benefit of the Company.
Board, the quality of succession planning, Independence The Board members agreed that the the interaction of the Board members with The independence of each Non-executive the Groups various business units, the Board and its principal committees Director is reviewed on appointment and continued to perform effectively.
process of managing strategic planning at least annually.
The Board determined and the management of risk.
A report that the current Non-executive Directors The Board concluded that the actions setting out details of the responses are each independent in character and arising from the 2018 review would received was provided to the Board by IAL judgement, save for the Chairman who was continue to be developed through 2019, for discussion and to support the targetdeemed independent by the Board at the with the addition of the following areas setting process for 2019 objectives.
None have been of focus: employed by the Company previously During the period, the Chairman held in any capacity or have any current 2019 Objectives one-to-one sessions with each of the material business relationship with any Directors following which feedback was Further develop the Boards Group company.
understanding of the impact of shared on performance and contribution.
Alongside the wider evaluation process, emerging technology trends on Non-executive Directors at Spirent receive Spirents existing business model and the Senior Independent Director led a no remuneration from the Company other session with the other Directors without on its longer-term strategic vision: than their fees detailed in the Report on Monitor the effectiveness of the the Chairman present to discuss and directors remuneration on page 80 and reflect on the Chairmans performance.
Groups new approach to internal each Non-executive Director has confirmed talent development: Feedback from this session was discussed that they do not represent any significant with the Chairman.
Review key leading indicators of shareholder in the Company.
No individual performance within Group: or group of individuals dominates the The implementation of a number of Undertake a deep review of the Groups Boards decision making and the 2016 recommended action points arising IT strategy to ensure it meets the Code requirement stating that at least from the 2017 evaluation was overseen evolving needs of the business: and half of the Board excluding the Chairman by the Chairman and included the Evolve Spirents culture and values to should comprise independent nonfollowing actions: ensure that they meet the current and executive directors is satisfied.
future needs of the business.
62 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Internal control and risk management Other significant commitments of the As part of this process, the Board: Chairman and Non-executive Directors The Board acknowledges its responsibilities considers each potential conflict situation for the Groups system of internal control are disclosed on appointment and require approval thereafter.
separately on its particular facts: to facilitate the identification, assessment considers the potential conflict situation and management of risk, the protection of Board development in conjunction with the rest of the shareholders investments and the Groups On appointment, directors are offered an directors duties under the Companies assets.
The Directors recognise that they induction programme on the operations Act 2006: are responsible for providing a return to and activities of the Group, the role of keeps records and Board minutes as to shareholders which is consistent with the the Board and the matters reserved authorisations granted by directors and responsible assessment and mitigation to its decision, the Groups corporate the scope of any approvals given: and of risks.
governance practices and procedures and regularly reviews conflict authorisation.
their duties, responsibilities and obligations Effective controls ensure that the Groups exposure to avoidable risk is minimised, as directors of a listed public limited ACCOUNTABILITY company.
This may be supplemented by Financial and business reporting that adequate accounting records are visits to key locations and meetings with, maintained, that the financial information The Board recognises its responsibility and presentations by, senior executives.
to present a fair, balanced and used within the business is reliable and that the consolidated accounts preparation understandable assessment of Spirent Further training for Directors is available as in all of its reporting obligations.
and financial reporting processes comply required and can be provided by means of with all relevant regulatory reporting This responsibility covers the Annual external courses, internal computer-based Report and extends to the half year report requirements.
The dynamics of the Group training, briefings from specific consultants and the environment within which it and other regulatory announcements.
In addition, The Directors consider this Annual Report, operates are continually evolving, together directors knowledge and understanding with its exposure to risk.
Internal controls taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and of the legal and regulatory environment understandable, providing the information can only provide reasonable and not is updated through the provision of absolute assurance against material necessary for shareholders to assess the information by the Groups advisers and Companys performance, business model misstatement or loss.
by means of regular updates from the and strategy.
In arriving at this position, Company Secretary.
The Directors confirm that there is an the Board asked the Audit Committee to ongoing, robust process for identifying, review and confirm a process is in place New Directors are encouraged to take evaluating and managing the principal risks to support this assessment.
The Audit advantage of opportunities to meet faced by the Group and the operational Committee confirmed that a robust with major shareholders and attend effectiveness of the related controls, which approach is in place to support the fair, presentations to analysts where possible.
has been in place for the year under review balanced and understandable assessment, and up to the date of approval of the annual details of which can be found in the Audit Information flow report and accounts.
They also confirm that Committees report on pages 68 to 73.
The Company Secretary manages the they have regularly reviewed the system provision of information to the Board at Business model of risk management and internal controls appropriate times in consultation with A description of the Companys business utilising the review process set out below.
In addition to model for sustainable growth is set out in formal meetings, the Chairman and CEO Our business model on pages 18 and 19.
The Directors confirm that a robust maintain regular contact with all Directors.
assessment of the principal risks facing the This section provides an explanation of the The Chairman also holds informal meetings basis on which the Group generates value Company has been carried out, including with Non-executive Directors, without any those risks that would threaten its business and preserves it over the long-term and its of the executives being present, to discuss strategy for delivering its objectives.
model, future performance, solvency or any issues affecting the Group, if this is liquidity.
More details are set out in the thought necessary.
Regular management Going concern Principal risks and uncertainties section on updates are sent to Directors to keep the After making enquiries, the Directors have pages 26 to 29 of this Annual Report.
Non-executive Directors informed of events a reasonable expectation that the Company Management and control of throughout the Group between Board and the Group have adequate resources meetings and to ensure that they are kept US subsidiary to continue in operational existence for Spirent Federal Systems Inc Spirent fully advised of the latest issues affecting the foreseeable future.
Federal, which contributed approximately consistent with the guidance contained $46.9 million 2017 $40.8 million to the in the document titled Guidance on Conflicts of interest procedures Groups revenue in 2018, operates under Risk Management, Internal Control and The Company has procedures in place, a Proxy agreement, as detailed below, Related Financial and Business Reporting which were reviewed and updated during with the remainder of the US business published by the FRC, they continue to the year, to deal with the situation where a operating outside the Proxy regime and adopt the going concern basis in preparing director has a conflict of interest.
therefore allowing the same reporting lines the annual financial statements.
and processes as the Groups other, nonregulated businesses.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Spirent Federal and the Proxy Board.
Members of Spirents senior All Group businesses are required to Proxy arrangement management team attend meetings of the comply with the Groups financial control Spirent Federal Systems Inc is a whollyProxy Board periodically.
framework that sets out minimum control owned subsidiary of Spirent in the United standards.
A key function of the Groups Standards States.
It has been placed under a Proxy internal audit resource is to undertake arrangements as it is required by the US Guidelines on the minimum Group-wide audits to ensure compliance with the requirements for health and safety and National Industrial Security Program to financial control framework and make maintain facility security clearances and environmental standards are set out recommendations for improvement in in policy documents and procedures.
to be insulated from foreign ownership, controls where appropriate.
control or influence for the business it There are also guidelines on the minimum level of internal control that each of the Senior members of the Group finance undertakes.
Under the Proxy agreement, Spirent Federal and the US Department business units should exercise over team meet with the Chairman of the Audit specified processes.
Each business has Committee as appropriate but at least of Defense DoD are parties to a Proxy agreement that relates the management developed and documented policies and annually, without the presence of executive procedures to comply with the minimum management, and have direct access to and operation of Spirent Federal.
control standards established, including the Chairman.
In addition to their powers as directors, the procedures for monitoring compliance and REMUNERATION Proxy holders have power under the Proxy taking corrective action.
arrangements to exercise all prerogatives The Directors report on remuneration is High level controls set out on pages 74 to 95 and provides of share ownership of Spirent Federal.
The Proxy holders have a fiduciary duty, All businesses prepare annual details of our remuneration policy and how operating plans and budgets which it has been implemented, together with the and agree, to perform their interests in the best interests of Spirent as a shareholder are supplemented by regular forecasts activities of the Remuneration Committee.
Performance against including the legitimate economic interest, and in a manner consistent budget is monitored at operational ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION level and centrally, with variances being with the national security interests of the AND SHARE CAPITAL United States.
Spirent may not remove the reported promptly.
The cash position at Information in relation to share capital, Group and operational level is monitored Proxy holders other than for acts of gross the appointment and powers of directors negligence or wilful misconduct or for constantly and variances from expected and the issue and buy back of shares and levels are investigated thoroughly.
breach of the Proxy agreement and always significant interests in share capital is set only with the consent of the US Defense out in the Directors report on pages 96 Clearly defined guidelines have been Security Service.
to 100. established for capital expenditure and investment decisions.
These include In terms of the power to govern, the Proxy RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the preparation of budgets, appraisal agreement vests certain powers solely The Board is committed to maintaining and review procedures, and delegated with the Proxy holders and certain powers good communications with shareholders.
For example, the Proxy The Chairman, CEO and CFO have holders cannot carry out any of the below regular face to face contact with individual Financial reporting without Spirents express approval: institutional shareholders in order to Detailed management accounts are develop an understanding of their views prepared every month, consolidated in sell or dispose of, in any manner, capital which are then discussed with the Board.
assets or the business of Spirent Federal: a single system and reviewed by senior Key themes for discussion in 2018 have management and the Board.
They include pledge, mortgage or encumber assets of included the appointment processes for Spirent Federal for purposes other than a comprehensive set of financial reports the new Non-executive Directors and the and key performance indicators covering obtaining working capital or funds for Remuneration Committees review of the capital improvements: commercial and operational issues.
Performance against budgets and forecasts merge, consolidate, reorganise or dissolve Spirent Federal: is discussed regularly at Board meetings All directors are offered the opportunity and at meetings between operational and file or make any petition under the to develop a dialogue with major federal bankruptcy laws or similar Group management.
The adequacy and shareholders to listen to their views and suitability of key performance indicators is law or statute of any state or any Executive Directors receive regular reports foreign country.
prepared by an independent capital markets advisory firm which provides Internal audit Spirent can require the above to be carried comprehensive information relating to the out and these are, therefore, considered to All of the internal audit activities are coCompanys major shareholders.
ordinated by the Head of Risk & Internal be significant participative features.
Audit, who has direct access to the Board Spirent maintains its involvement in Spirent Chairman and to the Audit Committee Federals activities through normal business Chairman and is accountable to the interaction and liaison with the Chair of the Audit Committee.
64 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Presentations are made to analysts, Any concerns raised by shareholders or The Board views the AGM as a valuable investors and prospective investors their representatives, whether expressed opportunity to communicate with private covering the full year and half year results directly or through voting patterns at the shareholders in particular, for whom it and the Company seeks to maintain a Companys AGM, are discussed by the provides the opportunity to hear about dialogue with the various bodies which directors and an appropriate response the general development of the business monitor the Companys governance given either specifically to the concerned and to ask questions of the Chairman policies and procedures.
party or, if it is felt to be of wider benefit, and, through him, the chairmen of the key made available to all shareholders via the Committees and other directors.
The Company is always keen to hear the Companys website.
views of its private shareholders and we The Board looks forward to welcoming encourage them to access our website all our shareholders to our 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING at https: corporate.
com for our The Companys 2019 Annual General AGM and to updating them on our Company reports and business information business developments.
Meeting 2019 AGM will be held at and to use our shareholder mailbox 12.30pm on Wednesday 1 May 2019 at the at investor.
com for offices of FTI Consulting, 200 Aldersgate, detailed enquiries.
Stakeholder Why is it important to engage?
Ways Spirent engages Shareholders key interests Customers Understanding our customers needs and behaviours Social media engagement Value for money allows us to deliver relevant products and services, Product website Customer service retain customers and also attract new ones.
It also Customer relevant events Reliability identifies opportunities for growth.
Industry forums and customer groups Colleagues Interactions with our colleagues are the main ways Training and Career opportunities that customers experience the brand of the Company.
development programme Pay and conditions Our colleagues are fundamental to the achievement Recognition and reward Training and development of our customer experience ambitions and are the Apprenticeship and Innovation cornerstone of our service and services proposition.
intern programmes Colleague engagement Suppliers Engaging with our supply chain means that we can Logistics efficiencies and Quality management ensure security of supply and speed to market.
environmental management Cost efficiency Our brand relies heavily on the high standards of our Supplier audits Ethical business model carefully selected suppliers, in order for us to deliver market-leading products and services.
Investors As a publicly listed company we need to provide fair, Annual reports Future-oriented information balanced and understandable information to instil Regulatory news releases Risk information trust and confidence and allow informed investment Annual General Meetings Operating and decisions to be made.
Investor presentations financial performance Corporate website Dividend One-on-one meetings Access to management Communities Ensures continued viability of the business into the Community Impact of Group activities on long-term.
We aim to contribute positively to the investment initiatives the wider community communities and environment in which we operate.
Media and Ensures transparency of information on the business Press releases Reliable product information industry and Spirents brand position in the various markets Media and analyst events Transparency of reliable and analysts we serve.
Participation in timely Group information industry reports Government Policies and regulatory changes may provide Participation in government CO reduction strategies 2 opportunities and pose risk to our operations.
funded sponsored smart Ethical business model technology initiatives Socially responsible strategy Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 65
