CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER largely outside the UK, it does not consider On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am it to be one of the Groups principal risks.
pleased to present its report for the period ending 31 December 2018.
The Committee has continued to develop the internal audit function with The Committee has focused on the its outsource partner in accordance with integrity of the Groups financial reporting an agreed strategic internal audit plan.
and ensuring the appropriate challenge This plan contributes to the assessment and governance around risk management.
of the level and effectiveness of controls We have continued to follow a detailed across the Group.
In addition, the programme of work and to respond to the Committee reviews the results of a biannual increasing depth of review and reporting internal assessment of internal controls that is now required of audit committees carried out by management across and are mindful of the 2018 UK Corporate all businesses.
Governance Codes requirement for In 2018, the Committee continued boards to perform a robust assessment of ENSURING THE emerging risks in addition to the principal to monitor and review the Groups preparations for the introduction of the risks.
The Committee has adapted its INTEGRITY OF scope accordingly.
General Data Protection Regulation which became effective in May 2018.
FINANCIAL During 2018 the Committee continued to Further details on the Committees monitor the implementation of IFRS 15 on activities during the year under review are REPORTING AND revenue recognition.
It also assessed the set out in the report to follow.
APPROPRIATE RISK Groups readiness to comply with IFRS 16 Looking ahead, the Committee is aware on Leases which becomes effective for the MANAGEMENT.
that under the EU Audit Regulation it will 2019 financial period and has considered be necessary to change the Companys the impact it will have on disclosure in external auditor in time for the new the Groups Income Statement and the auditors term to begin in 2021. increase in both assets and liabilities in its Balance Sheet.
The Committee remains fully committed In 2018, the Group had to contend with to championing good financial and risk reporting and to ensuring we have in place a fire which surrounded its Calabasas site which was closed as a result and its the appropriate internal controls.
I look forward to meeting any shareholders who business continuity plan was invoked.
The site reopened with minimal disruption, attend our AGM this year to answer any questions shareholders may have on this providing the Committee with further assurance as to the effectiveness of its risk report or on the Committees activities.
Jonathan Silver During the year, the Committee has also Chairman, Audit Committee considered the implications of Brexit, but 7 March 2019 given the Groups global footprint, which is FAIR, BALANCED, UNDERSTANDABLE In making its recommendation to management teams on the health of the additional scrutiny by senior the Board that the Annual Report, financial control environment: management including focused review taken as a whole, is fair, balanced a verification process applied to factual of risk registers: and understandable, the Committee content with the aim of providing the additional Committee reviews of the applied robust governance information necessary to assess the draft Annual Report in advance of final arrangements, including: Companys performance, business sign-off: and model and strategy: external audit review.
clear guidance and instruction of the reviews of the Annual Report disclosure requirement provided Final approval of the Annual Report undertaken at different levels of the to contributors: Group and by the senior management is provided by the Board, on the comprehensive Group and subsidiary recommendation of the Committee.
team that aim to ensure consistency and accounts processes, with written overall balance: confirmations provided by business unit 68 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MEMBERS KEY DUTIES purposes of disclosures required in the During the year and at the date of this In accordance with its terms of reference, Annual Report and Accounts: report, Committee members were: the Audit Committees key duties include: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls, Jonathan Silver Committee Chairman monitoring the integrity of the including the policies and overall process Gary Bullard Groups financial statements and for assessing established systems of Wendy Koh appointed 11 January 2018 any formal announcements relating internal financial control and timeliness Edgar Masri appointed 11 January 2018 to the Companys performance, and the effectiveness of corrective action reviewing significant financial reporting taken by management: It is intended that the Audit Committee judgements contained in them reviewing the most appropriate fulfilment is comprised of at least three members, before their submission to the Board of the internal audit function, agreeing all of whom are independent nonfor approval: and assessing the annual internal executive directors of the Company who on matters of financial reporting, audit plan and its effectiveness in the have the necessary range of financial reviewing and challenging where context of the Companys overall risk and commercial expertise to challenge necessary the consistency of and any management system: management.
Two members constitute changes to accounting and treasury overseeing the Groups policies, a quorum.
policies: for example whether the Group procedures and controls for preventing has followed appropriate accounting bribery, identifying money laundering, The 2016 Code requires the inclusion policies and made appropriate estimates and the Groups arrangements for of one financially qualified member and judgements, the clarity and whistleblowing: and as recognised by the Consultative completeness of disclosure, significant overseeing the relationship with the Committee of Accountancy Bodies with adjustments resulting from the audit, Groups external auditors, reporting recent and relevant financial experience.
and the going concern assumption and to the Board each year whether it Currently, the Committee Chairman fulfils compliance with auditing standards: considers the audit contract should be this requirement.
at the request of the Board, reviewing put out to tender taking into account the content of the Annual Report and any legal requirements for tendering or Accounts and advising the Board on rotation of the audit contract, reviewing whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, and monitoring their objectivity and balanced and understandable and independence including seeking provides the information necessary for information from the external auditor shareholders to assess the Companys on an annual basis about its policies position and performance, business and procedures for maintaining model and strategy: independence, agreeing the scope of as requested by the Board, assisting in their work and fees paid to them for relation to the Boards assessment of the audit, assessing the effectiveness of the principal risks facing the Company and audit process, and agreeing the policy the prospects of the Company for the in relation to the provision of nonaudit services.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED HOW THE COMMITTEE OPERATES MEETINGS SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL All Committee members are expected The Audit Committee met four times during ISSUESCONSIDERED to be financially literate and to have an the year, with the Committee agenda linked The Audit Committee has reviewed each understanding of the following areas: to events in the Groups financial calendar.
of the following key significant financial risks by: the principles of, and developments in, ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 financial reporting including applicable reviewing papers and The Audit Committees activities accounting standards and statements of principally related to financial reporting, management updates: recommended practice: holding discussions with management internal control and risk management, key aspects of the Companys operations the preparation for publishing a and key finance staff to challenge including corporate policies and the assumptions made: viability statement and the external Groups internal control environment: audit.
In addition, the Audit Committee debating alternative treatments: matters which may influence the receiving periodic reports on key areas considered other specific matters such as presentation of accounts and key figures: the Groups approach to IT controls and of judgement: the principles of, and developments in, discussing with the external auditor: and cyber security.
company law, sector-specific laws and considering presentations to analysts other relevant corporate legislation: to assess for inconsistencies or areas FINANCIAL REPORTING AND the role of internal and external auditing of bias.
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES and risk management: and During the year, the Audit Committee: Revenue recognition the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses.
reviewed the full year and half year The Committee is aware that pressure on management to meet certain targets, and financial statements, trading updates, The Committee invites the CEO, CFO key accounting policies and significant to respond to specific customer requests and senior representatives of the external may drive additional deal complexity which financial reporting judgements contained auditor to attend its meetings in full, therein with particular reference to the in turn could lead to complex accounting.
although it reserves the right to request any This may result in inappropriate recognition critical accounting assumptions and of these individuals to withdraw.
judgements as set out in note 2 of the of revenue and associated balances.
The Committee has monitored the finance consolidated financial statements and During the year, the Committee held two recommended the financial statements organisations implementation of the meetings with the external auditor without new revenue recognition standard IFRS to the Board for approval: any executive members of the Board reviewed whether the Annual Report 15, which has applied to the Companys being present.
financial statements for the period taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and formed an opinion beginning 1 January 2018.
The Committee has unrestricted access to thereon prior to recommending it to Company documents and information, as As part of their audit procedures agreed the Board: well as to employees of the Company and with the Committee, Ernst & Young LLP reviewed and monitored risk the external auditor.
EY has examined the allocation of management processes and their revenue, reviewing specific large and potential to impact on the viability of The Committees effectiveness is complex transactions and contracts the Group: reviewed on an annual basis as part of the containing non-standard acceptance reviewed and considered assumptions Boards performance evaluation process clauses to ensure that revenue has been in relation to the going concern basis for and the Committee was found to be recognised appropriately.
EY has also preparation of financial statements: and operating effectively.
tested the allocation of revenue to the reviewed the external auditors report service element of multi-element contracts on the interim review and year end audit The terms of reference of the Audit to ensure that deferred revenue and other and managements responses to the Committee were reviewed and updated associated balances have been recognised issues raised.
during the year and can be viewed in accordance with Group accounting on the Companys website at The Committee Chairman reports policies and IFRS.
com any significant findings or identified weaknesses to the Board.
70 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Deferred tax assets INTERNAL CONTROL AND The Head of Risk & Internal Audit has direct The Committee recognises there is a risk access to the Board Chairman and to the RISKMANAGEMENT that inappropriate use of brought forward During the year, the Audit Committee: Committee Chairman, is accountable to the tax losses and volatility in forecast sales Committee and meets regularly with both may result in incorrect recognition of monitored and reviewed internal control the Committee and its Chairman, without deferred tax assets.
In addition, following and risk management systems: the presence of management, to consider the significant reduction in US Federal reviewed and approved the internal audit the work of Internal Audit.
tax rates in 2017, due consideration has programme for 2018: Raising concerns at work continued to be given to the change in the monitored and reviewed the Groups The Committee aims to ensure that measurement and resulting disclosures of preparations for the introduction of the employees are able to raise any concern these assets.
Anticipated restrictions on the General Data Protection Regulation in confidence about any possible utilisation of carry forward losses in the UK GDPR in May 2018: and improprieties in business practices, or may also increase the risk and uncertainty.
reviewed regular reports on taxation, other matters.
In 2018, a revised Groupwide treasury operations, health and safety The Committee noted that EY has Whistleblowing Policy was launched, and and cyber security.
an external third party was appointed to performed a detailed review of the recognition of deferred tax assets in the The Board has overall responsibility for receive any concerns raised by employees.
Disclosures under this arrangement are Group accounts as part of their audit the Groups system of internal control review, with a good level of challenge of and risk management and for reviewing investigated promptly by the Company Secretary, with the support of the Head of managements underlying assumptions.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed Risk & Internal Audit, and escalated to the Goodwill impairment the effectiveness of this system and has Executive Directors and the Committee as Management undertook its annual review enhanced the approach to Internal Control appropriate, with follow-up action being of impairment at the end of 2018 and the and Raising Concerns at Work as described taken as soon as practicable thereafter.
Committee challenged the assumptions below during 2018.
The Committee is satisfied that the means made and concluded that managements for employees to raise concerns at work Internal audit assessment of goodwill is appropriate.
are appropriate to the size and scale of During 2018 the Head of Risk & Internal the Group.
As part of its audit process, EY undertook Audit has worked with an outsourced a review of the procedures followed and provider for financial control activities, with The primary aim of the Groups internal judgements made by management and an Internal Audit Charter being approved controls is to operate a system which is agreed that managements conclusions.
appropriate to the business and which can support the Group in delivering its strategic Exceptional items The Committee approved the objectives, safeguard the Groups assets The Committee has reviewed and agreed programme of work for the Internal and, over time, enhance shareholder value.
the quantum and disclosure of the Audit function, which was focused on The system is designed to identify, evaluate provisions for pension equalisation and the addressing both financial and overall risk and manage the significant risks faced by French Customs dispute.
management objectives across the Group.
the Group rather than to eliminate the risk The Committee oversees and monitors of failure to achieve business objectives MISSTATEMENTS the work of the Internal Audit function, and can only provide reasonable and Management reported to the Committee which reviews key controls and processes not absolute assurance against material that they were not aware of any material throughout the Group on a rolling misstatement or loss.
This is in accordance or immaterial misstatements made basis, including resources, scope and with the Guidance on Risk Management, intentionally to achieve a particular effectiveness of the function.
Internal Control and Related Financial and outcome.
The auditor reported to the Business Reporting issued by the FRC in Committee misstatements they had found September 2014. in the course of their work.
After due consideration, the Committee concurred with management that no adjustments were required.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The CFO is responsible for internal Committee oversight Acquisitions and divestments financial control and for ensuring that the Day-to-day responsibility for effective A disciplined due diligence process and finance department employs a level of internal control and risk management and post-acquisition integration programme.
management and specialists appropriate monitoring rests with senior management Fraud for maintaining financial records and at business unit level.
During the year, The Groups Business Ethics Policy has been processes that provide financial information the CFO attended all Audit Committee communicated to all employees and states that is relevant, reliable, complies with meetings to report on internal control that all employees have a responsibility applicable laws and regulations, and is and risk management and notified the for fraud prevention and detection.
distributed both internally and externally Committee of any control weaknesses, Any suspicion of fraud will be reported in a timely manner.
A review of the control failings and risks, their impact and immediately and investigated vigorously.
consolidation and financial statements the actions taken to deal with the issues.
is undertaken by senior management to Detailed updates on specific areas, such as EXTERNAL AUDIT ensure that the financial position and results cyber security or business continuity, are The Committee is responsible for of the Group are appropriately reflected.
provided at the Committees request.
overseeing the Companys relations with All financial information published by the the external auditor.
Group is subject to the approval of the The Board and Audit Committee consider that having the following key elements in Audit Committee prior to it being approved The Committee places great importance by the Board.
place is critical to underpinning the overall on ensuring that high standards of quality internal control environment: and effectiveness are maintained within Risk management Operating structure and controls the external audit process.
It considers a Members of the Group Executive An organisational structure with clear number of areas in relation to the external Committee meet to challenge and debate operating procedures, defined lines of auditor: their performance in discharging the assessment of risk including emerging responsibility and delegated levels of the audit and interim review of financial risks, for the Group as a whole and within authority which were subject to a thorough statements, their independence and each business unit, which have submitted review during 2018. objectivity, and their re-appointment local risk registers for analysis and ranking and remuneration.
together with Company-wide risks to Financial control structure form a robust corporate risk register.
A comprehensive strategic planning, Auditor appointment This corporate risk register is presented financial control and budgeting system Each year the Committee assesses to the Audit Committee at least twice which is properly documented and and reports to the Board on the each year.
Actions arising from the Audit regularly reviewed.
qualification, expertise and resources, and Committees review of the corporate risk independence of the external auditor and register are fed back to the business units Business Ethics Policy the effectiveness of the audit process, with for their management.
A policy that sets standards of a recommendation on whether to propose professionalism and integrity for all to the shareholders that the external In 2018, the Calabasas site was closed employees and operations was relaunched auditor be re-appointed.
after being surrounded by a forest fire.
The Business Ethics Policy The business continuity plan was invoked includes sections relating to bribery and The Committee notes and confirms and the site was quickly reopened with corruption to ensure that all of Spirents compliance with the Competition and minimal interruption.
A lessons learnt systems, controls and training comply with Markets Authority Order 2014 CMA exercise was undertaken and the business the anti-bribery and corruption legislation Order in respect of statutory audit continuity plan updated accordingly.
in the countries in which we operate and services for large companies.
that a culture of prevention and detection of all forms of bribery and corruption is in place.
Anti-bribery training is required to be taken by certain employees periodically and will be rolled out again during 2019.
72 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Following the recommendation of the The Committee holds regular private Policy on non-audit services Board, EY was appointed as predecessor meetings with the external auditor to The Committee is responsible for firm Lindsay, Jamieson & Haldane by the assist with their assessment, including approving non-audit services, with the Company at its Annual General Meeting discussion of: objective of ensuring that the provision on 9 May 1950 to audit the financial of such services by the external auditor statements of the Company for the period how the auditor has identified and does not impair its independence or addressed potential risks to audit quality: ending 31 December 1949 and subsequent objectivity.
Taking into account relevant financial periods.
EYs total uninterrupted the controls in place within the audit firm ethical guidance, the Committees policy to identify risks to audit quality, including precludes a number of non-audit services, period of engagement, covering the period from appointment to the period currently the results of internal and external including those relating to the accounting inspections of the audit team and firm: records and financial statements, internal under review, is 69 years.
whether the auditor has met the agreed audit, IT consulting, legal and investment The Committee is aware that the audit plan, in particular how it has services and other services deemed by transitional provisions of the CMA Order responded to any changes that have regulators to be precluded.
The Committee and the EU Audit Regulations which been required during the process: accepts that certain work of a non-audit became effective on 17 June 2016 will feedback from the key people involved in nature may be best undertaken by the require the Company to change its external the audit: and external auditor.
The policy is reviewed auditor no later than 2021.
The Committee the content of the auditors annually and financial limits for the further affirms that its current intention management letter.
provision of non-audit services, including is to change the external auditor no later audit-related fees and other fees, are set The Committee reviewed and appropriately than the expiry of the five-year term of the on the same annual basis 2018 $0.3 million challenged the basis for these before external audit partner ie by 2021 and that 2017 $0.3 million and were less than oneagreeing the proposed approach and the on that basis, a competitive tender process third of the Groups audit fee of $0.9 million scope of the external audit was identified.
will commence for the new auditors term to 2017 $0.9 million.
In accordance with the begin in 2021.
Revised Ethical Standard issued by the FRC The Committee also monitored the audit in June 2016, the lead audit engagement partners involvement in his teams work to The Committee will continue to monitor partner is required to notify the Audit ensure sufficient oversight and direction of legislative developments and will continue Committee Chairman in advance for work was evident, in particular with regard to review its conclusions on an annual pre-approval of any proposed non-audit to the audit of significant components basis, however it believes it is appropriate services.
The Committee can confirm that involving judgements.
to recommend the re-appointment of no such non-audit services were provided the incumbent external auditor at the by EY during the period under review Auditor independence 2019 AGM.
The Committee assesses the independence and objectivity of the external auditor There are no contractual obligations in In response to the introduction of further existence that restrict the Companys annually, taking into consideration relevant measures under the EU Audit Reform UK law, regulation, the FRC Revised choice of auditor.
Directive, the Committee reviewed its Ethical Standard and other professional policy regarding the provision of nonAuditor effectiveness requirements.
EY has provided a letter audit services in 2017 and since that time, The Committee assesses the effectiveness confirming its belief that it remained tax-related services previously provided by of the audit process on an ongoing independent throughout 2018 and has the external auditor are now provided by basis, with particular attention to the discussed with the Committee the threats Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
mindset and culture, skills, character and to its independence and the safeguards knowledge, quality control and judgement applied to mitigate those threats.
of the external auditor in their handling As part of this review, the Committee of key judgements, responsiveness to the Committee and in their commentary examined in particular: where appropriate on the systems of a report from the external auditor internal control.
describing its arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 73
