CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROVIDING THE RIGHT MIX OF KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS BILL THOMAS ERIC HUTCHINSON PAULA BELL Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer JONATHAN SILVER GARY BULLARD WENDY KOH Senior Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director EDGAR MASRI Independent Non-executive Director 56 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION development for international growth BILL THOMAS WENDY KOH underpinned by extensive M&A activity.
Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Appointed: Chairman in May 2017: Appointed: Non-executive Director, Paula is a Fellow of the Chartered Non-executive Director in December 2016 January 2018 Institute of Management Accountants and a Chartered Committees: Nomination Chair Committees: Audit, Nomination, GlobalManagement Accountant.
Remuneration Skills and experience Other roles Bill brings strong commercial and Skills and experience Since September 2018, non-executive management experience to the Board.
Wendy brings strong technology sector director and, since January 2019, Chair His extensive international technology experience from various strategic and ofAudit Committee at Keller Group plc: experience, together with his track sales roles she has undertaken in the untilJune 2018 non-executive director record in leading major change in large APAC region with Juniper Networks, andChair of Audit Committee of Laird plc.
most recently as Senior Vice President Bill is a former Senior Vice President at Global GTM Strategy and Business JONATHAN SILVER Hewlett Packard and was on the executive Development, a global role focused on Senior Independent committee of EDS plc as Executive leading transformational strategy and Non-executive Director Vice President.
establishing partnerships to increase value Appointed: Senior Independent proposition for customers.
Wendy also Non-executive Director, November 2016: Other roles previously worked for Cisco Systems from Chair of Audit Committee, August 2015: Member of the Council and President 1998 to 2003.
Non-executive Director, June 2015. of the Alumni Association at Cranfield University School of Management: Chair Wendy holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Committees: Audit Chair, of Clarkson PLC: Chair of Node4, a private Electrical and Electronics from Nanyang Nomination, Remuneration equity-owned IT services firm: Chair of Technological University and a Graduate the Royal Navy and Royal Marines Charity: Diploma in Marketing Management from Skills and experience non-executive director of The Co-operative the Singapore Institute of Management.
Jonathan brings experience in finance, Bank: member of Advisory Board of risk, control, governance and international Other roles FireEye, Inc. business expertise.
He was Chief Financial Vice President, Pathways, Alliance & Officer at Laird plc until 2015, having Strategy APAC at NetApp Singapore.
ERIC HUTCHINSON held a variety of roles in his 30 years with Chief Executive Officer the company.
EDGAR MASRI Appointed: CEO in September 2013: Independent Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer in January 2000 Jonathan is a Member of the Chartered Appointed: Non-executive Director, Accountants of Scotland.
Skills and experience January 2018 Eric has extensive experience in the Other roles technology industry worldwide.
He joined Committees: Audit, Nomination, Non-executive director and Chair of Audit Remuneration the Company in 1983 and was appointed to Committee of Invesco Income Growth the Board as Chief Financial Officer in 2000, Trust: non-executive director, Chair of Audit Skills and experience stepping up to the role of Chief Executive Committee of East and North Hertfordshire Edgar brings to the Board wide-ranging Officer in September 2013.
NHS Trust, and non-executive director of experience of managing companies across Henderson High Income Trust PLC.
the technology sector with a focus on driving Eric is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
Edgar was GARY BULLARD President and Chief Executive Officer of Independent Non-executive Director Other roles Qualtre, Inc. a US-based startup acquired Appointed: Chair of Remuneration Member of the Financial Reporting by Panasonic Corporation in December Committee, May 2017: Non-executive Review Panel.
2016 at the same time as acting as a member Director, December 2016 of the board of Calient Technologies until its acquisition by Chunxing Precision PAULA BELL Committees: Remuneration Chair, Mechanical Co. Ltd.
Prior to this, Edgar was Chief Financial Officer Audit, Nomination President and CEO of 3Com Corporation, a Appointed: Chief Financial Officer in leading global data networking company, September 2016 Skills and experience bringing the company to record revenue Gary brings extensive experience in senior and gross margins before it was taken into Skills and experience management positions, including sales private ownership.
Paula joined Spirent in 2016, bringing and marketing roles, at IBM and BT Group extensive board experience of working plc and was a non-executive director of Edgar holds a Diplome dIngenieur from with global technology and engineering Chloride Group plc.
Until 2012 he was Ecole Centrale fide Paris, a Master of Science businesses.
Paula has demonstrable President at Logica UK and a member of degree in Electrical Engineering from experience of effective financial and theExecutive Committee of Logica plc.
the University of California at Berkeley, commercial management, driving costand a Master of Business Administration efficient organisations and improved cash Other roles with distinction Arjay Miller Scholar from management whilst driving a strategic Non-executive chairman of Gooch & Stanford University.
Paula was previously CFO at Housego PLC: non-executive director John Menzies Plc from 2013 and CFO at and Chair of Remuneration Committee of Other roles Ricardo Plc from 2006 to 2013.
Director of Kollective Technology, Inc: held senior management roles at BAA plc, Board adviser and senior consultant to AWG plc and Rolls-Royce, leading business Accton Technology Corporation.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 57
