CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT MEMBERS When dealing with the appointment of the During the year and at the date of Chairman, the Committee is chaired by the this Report: Senior Independent Director.
Bill Thomas Chairman The terms of reference of the Nomination Jonathan Silver Committee, which were updated as Gary Bullard necessary and approved during the year, Wendy Koh appointed 11 January 2018 are available on the Companys website at Edgar Masri appointed 11 January 2018 https: corporate.
com KEY DUTIES MEETINGS In accordance with its terms of reference, The Nomination Committee met three the Nomination Committees key times during the year under review.
duties include: COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 leading the search process and making Policy on diversity and inclusion at AS PART OF recommendations to the Board for the Board level appointment of new directors: Although the Board does not currently ITS ONGOING regularly reviewing the Board structure, set specific aspirations in respect of size and composition including the skills, diversity at Board level, it has a policy of ASSESSMENT OF knowledge, independence, experience supporting fully the 2016 Codes principles and diversity, recommending any in respect of this key issue.
Spirent as a SENIORLEADERSHIP necessary changes and considering whole recognises the benefits of diversity DEPTH, THE plans for orderly succession: and beyond that of gender, taking account of making recommendations to the diversity of social and ethnic backgrounds COMMITTEE AND THE Board about suitable candidates and cognitive and personal strengths for the role of Senior Independent when considering appointments at all BOARD CONTINUE Director, and membership of the Audit levels whilst ensuring appointments are TO WORK TOWARDS and Remuneration Committees in made on merit and ability to enhance the consultation with the chairmen of the performance of the business.
An analysis of data on the gender balance DIVERSE INTERNAL HOW THE COMMITTEE OPERATES at different levels within the Company can Members of the Nomination Committee be found in the Sustainability section on PIPELINE FORFUTURE are appointed by the Board from the page 51 of this Annual Report.
SUCCESSION TO THE directors of the Company.
The Committee comprises a minimum of three independent Board appointments process BOARD AND SENIOR The Chairman leads the process for new non-executive directors.
A quorum consists of two members, being either two appointments with external, independent MANAGEMENT.
consultants engaged to conduct a search independent non-executive directors or one independent non-executive director for potential candidates.
These are considered on the basis of their skills, and the Chairman.
experience and fit with the existing Only members of the Committee have members of the Board.
Procedures for the right to attend Committee meetings.
appointing a non-executive or an executive Other individuals, such as the CEO and director are set out in the Committees external advisers, may be invited to attend terms of reference.
66 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Recruitment of new CEO Following a rigorous process of Following Eric Hutchinsons decision to interviews and assessments and, on the inform the Board of his wish to retire from recommendation of the Nomination the Company, the Chairman has initiated Committee, the Board approved the a search process for a new Chief Executive appointments of Wendy Koh and Edgar Officer.
Mr Hutchinson has agreed to Masri with effect from 11 January 2018. continue in the role until a replacement has been appointed and for a transitional Board succession As part of its ongoing assessment of period thereafter.
senior leadership depth, the Committee The services of external executive and the Board continue to work towards consulting firm Korn Ferry has been developing a diverse internal pipeline retained to identify candidates.
Korn Ferry for future succession to the Board and is independent, with no other connection senior management.
to the Company, and is a signatory to Performance review the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on diversity and The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the annual Board best practice.
performance evaluation and the Committee The Company will report on progress in was found to be operating effectively.
Re-election of Directors Appointment of new Independent The Committee reviews the results of the annual Board performance evaluation that Non-executive Directors During the year, the Chairman completed specifically relate to the composition of the Board and whether the time commitment the process for the appointment of two new Independent Non-executive Directors of those who fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and nonas part of the progressive refreshing of the Board.
The services of external executive The Committee was satisfied that all nonconsulting firm Russell Reynolds executive members of the Board devote Associates were retained to identify sufficient time to their duties and remain candidates.
Russell Reynolds Associates independent in nature and recommends is independent, with no other connection all continuing Directors for re-election by to the Company, and is a signatory to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on diversity and best practice.
Bill Thomas Chairman 7 March 2019 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 67
