Audit, risk and internal control Committee role and responsibilities The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: Audit Committee monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Clive Watson Company and any formal announcements relating to the Chair of Audit Committee Companys financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: providing advice where requested by the Board on whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: in conjunction with the Risk Management Committee and the Board, reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function and making recommendations to the Board: conducting the tender process and making recommendations to the Board about the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor, and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity: reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and Members regulatory requirements: Our Audit Committee comprises: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the No.
of meetings attended Attendance external auditor to supply non-audit services, ensuring there is total no.
meetings held % prior approval of non-audit services, considering the impact this Clive Watson Chair 3 3 100% may have on independence, taking into account the relevant regulations and ethical guidance in this regard, and reporting to Peter France 3 3 100% the Board on any improvement or action required: and Jane Kingston 3 3 100% reporting to the Board on how it has discharged 1 Jamie Pike 1 1 100% its responsibilities.
Trudy Schoolenberg 3 3 100% Meetings 1 Resigned from the Committee on 15th May 2018 on appointment as Chair of the Board.
The Committee met three times during 2018.
Relevant members How the Committee spent its time of the Groups senior management, including the Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial 5% 30% Finance and tax reviews Controller, were also in attendance at these meetings.
In line with recommended practice, the Group Chief Executive attended one Corporate governance 10% meeting of the Committee March.
External audit Internal audit During 2018, the Committee received reports from external 10% Risk management and internal auditors on the major findings of their work and the and controls progress of management follow-up by way of management 15% Results review reports.
As a safeguard, the Committee holds separate meetings 15% Whistle-blowing with the external and internal auditors without management present to discuss their respective areas and any issues arising 15% from their audits.
82 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 and the Committee continued to monitor their integration and Key Committee activities in 2018 performance to ensure they were proceeding in accordance with managements plans and that the financial judgements made by the Group in applying accounting policies in relation to these March acquisitions remained accurate.
Reviewed the Annual Report including: Viability Statement The following matters were of particular note: Going Concern basis that it is fair, balanced and understandable Finance team appointments Agreed the Internal Audit Strategy and Charter for 2018 Following the Groups appointments of its first Head of Internal Monitored the Group preparedness for the implementation Audit and also Tax Manager in 2017, the Committee noted that in of GDPR 2018 the Group had further strengthened its Finance team and the Reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls control environment by the appointment of an additional Internal Audit Manager and another Tax Manager.
The Group confirmed its intention to appoint a third internal auditor in 2019, with the aim based on the current size of the Group being to ultimately have August four internal auditors to cover all of the internal audit activity of Reviewed the half-year results the Group.
Reviewed the auditor interim report Reviewed and approved the auditor engagement policy Cybersecurity and GDPR preparedness On-going review of risk areas such as cybersecurity, GDPR and With GDPR becoming effective in May 2018, the Committee whistle-blowing increased its focus on the Groups policies and processes Consideration of Audit Committee performance covering the related issues of cybersecurity and data governance.
In particular, the Committee reviewed updates from management on the work being undertaken by the GDPR project team and external advisers to ensure compliance with October GDPR within the relevant milestones.
All critical elements of the External audit planning including review and approval of compliance plan identified following a gap analysis undertaken audit scope Tax update reviewed Tax Policy and Tax Strategy by Ernst&Young LLP during 2018 were completed by the Reviewed internal audit process relevant Group companies ahead of the May 2018 deadline and Reviewed and approved new Crisis Management Plan all employees have been provided with GDPR awareness training.
The Committee will continue to monitor compliance.
Committee competence The Committee was pleased to note that the Group had carried The Terms of Reference for the Committee, which can be found on taking steps to mitigate the risk posed to businesses by online on the Groups website, www.
Digital security had been greatly increased across the under Governance, set out the membership and experience Group generally and, in addition to new encryption and anti-virus requirements of the Committee.
Collectively, the Committee software being utilised by the Group, cybersecurity training had is considered by the Board to possess an appropriate level of been rolled out to the vast majority of employees.
independence it is comprised solely of Non-Executive Directors and experience: the Chair has recent and relevant financial Taxation experience and the required competence in accounting and its The Group Taxation Strategy, which can be found on the Groups members have a depth of financial and commercial experience website, www.
com, under Governance, in various industries, as well as the industrial engineering sector was published in 2018.
The Taxation Strategy sets out the Groups in which the Group operates.
A more detailed summary of the approach to tax risk management and governance, tax planning qualifications, skills and experience of each Committee member and relationship with the relevant tax authorities.
The Committee noted that due to the increased size of the Group, it is now subject to HMRC Senior Accounting Officer review Chairs review of 2018 and in June 2018, a clean certificate was issued by the Senior 2018 saw some changes in the Committees membership, with Accounting Officer for the year ended 31st December 2017.
PeterFrance joining the Committee on his appointment to the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director in March 2018, Review of effectiveness of internal controls and JamiePike stepping down as a member of the Committee In its review of the Groups internal controls, the Committee following his appointment as Chair of the Board in May 2018. considers the effectiveness of all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk In addition to its on-going core responsibilities of monitoring management systems.
The Committee continues to consider the the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and the Group to have a strong and effective control environment in place.
effectiveness of its controls, in 2018 the Committee was focused Further detail on monitoring effectiveness of internal controls can on ensuring the Group was prepared for the implementation of be found on pages 87 to 88. the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, through reviews of the Groups cybersecurity regime and data governance policies and processes.
The first anniversary of the Gestra and Chromalox acquisitions arrived in May and July respectively Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 83 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Governance Report 4.
Audit, risk and internal control continued How this was addressed Audit Committee continued Regular cycles of internal and external audits by independent Crisis management parties including the Committee have been put in place to A new Crisis Management Plan was established by the Group in review financial information.
These audits are objective reviews 2018.
The Plan was reviewed and approved by the Committee on compliance with the Groups accounting policies.
The Group and supplements the Groups existing Serious Incident continues to provide additional resource to its internal audit Management Policy and local incident management procedures.
function with the recent appointment of a further Internal Audit The Plan sets out the responsibilities and actions of the Board and Manager see page 83.
The new internal audit plan and budget, senior management in the event of an incident that is sufficiently which sets the objectives of visiting every business in the Group serious in nature that it is highly likely to attract detrimental over a five-year period and to audit acquisitions within six months publicity, affect the reputation of the Group or affect its share price.
of completion, was approved by the Committee in 2018.
Whistle-blowing Significant areas of judgement in the The Committee was pleased to note that the Whistle-blowing Financial Statements Policy implemented in 2014 had been successfully rolled out to the After reviewing the presentations and reports from management newest members of the Group Gestra and Chromalox.
This roll and consulting with the auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the out included the Groups Safecall facility being the confidential Financial Statements appropriately address the critical judgements employee whistle-blowing hotline.
The Committee received and key estimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and updates on the use of Safecall at each meeting and noted that, the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant on the whole, this hotline continued to be used for its intended assumptions used for determining the value of assets and purpose by employees.
The Committee assessed managements liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are responses to the reported cases of which there were five in 2018 sufficiently robust.
and considered them to be appropriate and satisfactory.
How these were addressed Significant issues The Committee reviewed the 2018 Going Concern and Viability During 2018, the Committee considered and addressed the Statements and were satisfied that these represented accurate following significant issues in relation to the Groups Financial assessments of the Companys position as at the date of Statements and disclosures: the Statements.
i Revenue recognition External audit process In view of the profile of revenue and profit recognition in the final This is the fifth financial year in which the Annual Report and quarter of the year, the need to focus on any new contracts Financial Statements have been audited by Deloitte LLP, and revenue cut-off for certain businesses was highlighted to following their appointment as the Companys external auditor ensure the appropriate recognition of revenue for the year ended as of 20th May 2014.
This appointment is subject to on-going 31stDecember 2018. monitoring and will run for a maximum of 10 years before being tendered.
One of the primary responsibilities of the Committee is How this was addressed to assess the robustness of the external audit process and make The Committee received regular updates on the assessment of recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, the impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers re-appointment or removal of the external auditor.
The Committee during 2018. took a number of factors into account when evaluating the ii Pensions effectiveness of the external audit including:the quality and There are judgements and estimates made in selecting scope of the planning of the audit in October 2018, Deloitte appropriate assumptions in valuing the Groups defined benefit LLP presented their plan for the 2018 audit to the Committee : pension obligations, including discount ratios, mortality, inflation andfeedback from all audited operating units, the Group Finance and salary increases.
team, senior management and Directors on the audit process and the quality and experience of the audit partners engaged in How this was addressed the audit.
The Committee considered reports by the Group, including those from independent external advisers, and is comfortable that the As this was their fifth year as auditor, in accordance with the key assumptions are reasonable.
requirements to rotate the audit partner at least every five years, the Committee were informed by Deloitte LLP that Mark Mullins iii Management override of controls would be stepping down after the close of the 2018 audit and Internal controls are the safeguards put in place by the Group to Andrew Bond will take over responsibility for the audits from protect its financial resources from fraud and abuse by employees.
Management is responsible for ensuring the internal controls are The Group has complied with the provisions of the Competition followed by employees.
As such, intervention by management and Market Authority CMA Order, issued by the CMA in in the handling of financial information and making decisions September 2014, for The Statutory Audit Services for Large contrary to the internal control policy is a significant, if unlikely, risk.
Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities.
84 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Audit fees Ensuring a fair, balanced and During 2018, the Committee reviewed and approved the understandable Annual Report proposed audit fees and terms of engagement for the 2018 audit and recommended to the Board that it proposes to shareholders Audit Committee oversight of the that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as the Groups external auditor for 2019 at the AGM to be held on 15th May 2019.
Annual Report Assessed the consistency of the risks and judgements: Safeguarding independence and objectivity reviewed the Board minutes to ensure issues of significance The Committee recognises that the independence of the external were given prominence: and auditor is an essential part of the audit framework and has arrived at a position where initially the Committee and then adopted a policy which sets out a framework for determining the Board were satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and whether it is appropriate to engage the Groups auditor for clarity of the Annual Report.
This policy states that any expenditure with Specific actions taken to achieve this included: the Groups auditor on non-audit fees should not exceed 70% of the average audit fees charged in the last three-year period.
comprehensive guidance for contributors at operational level: During the year, the Group spent 0.1 million on non-audit services verification process dealing with the factual content of provided by Deloitte LLP being 7% of the average of Group audit the reports: fees charged over the past three years.
Further details can be consideration of the appropriateness of alternative found in Note 7 on page 150.
No significant non-audit services performance measures: were provided by Deloitte LLP.
comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the Group that aim to ensure consistency and overall balance: and comprehensive review by the senior management team.
Auditor payments 2018 m 0.1 Through these processes and its monitoring of the effectiveness Non-audit fees of controls, internal audit and risk management, the Committee is Audit fees 1.7 able to maintain a good understanding of business performance, key areas of judgement and decision-making processes within the Group.
Internal audit The Committee reviewed the schedule of planned internal audits Fair, balanced and understandable undertaken in 2018 and assessed the robustness of the control One of the key governance requirements of the Committee is framework that is in place to track and monitor progress in for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and understandable.
This review ensures that The co-ordination and review of the Group-wide input into the Committee is able to give assurances that the Group has an the Annual Report is a significant exercise performed within effective and integrated risk management framework, in addition an exacting time frame, which runs alongside the formal audit to the oversight provided by the Risk Management Committee.
process undertaken by the external auditor.
The Directors During 2018, there were a total of 26 internal audits performed.
acknowledge their responsibility for preparing the 2018 Annual On the whole, the companies audited had an effective control Report and confirm that they consider this document, taken as environment.
Where issues were found, remediation actions were a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides agreed that are tracked to completion and validated before being the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups closed.
Status is reported to the Committee.
The internal audit position, performance, business model and strategy.
An overview process is explained in more detail on page 88. of the processes involved to achieve this are set out in the table above.
Review of Financial Statements During 2018, the Committee considered many components Committee focus for 2019 of business performance in order to ensure it has a full Assessment of Financial Statements understanding of the operations of the Group.
Key matters Review of Internal Audits considered by the Committee include: On-going monitoring of risks The Groups preparedness for Brexit determining the position adopted in judgement and estimate Climate change impact on the Group and the Groups impact areas for pensions: on climate.
risk areas set out in the Risk Management Committee Report: receipt of regular strategy reports from the Group Chief Executive and operational reports from the Divisional Directors: Clive Watson requesting members of management to attend Committee Chair of Audit Committee meetings to provide updates on operational and strategic matters: Further reading reviews of the budget and operational plan: and Our Going Concern Statement.
consideration of judgements and estimates.
See page 122 See page 89 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 85 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Governance Report 4.
Audit, risk and internal control continued Committee role and responsibilities The Committee oversees the management and control of Risk Management Committee significant risks affecting the Group.
The Committee ensures Nicholas Anderson that the Group has risk management policies and procedures, Chair of Risk Management Committee including those covering project governance, sanctions and embargoes, crisis management, human rights, business continuity and business management.
The Committees responsibilities include: using top-down and bottom-up reviews, understanding the risks facing the Group: determining our appetite for risk: accepting and managing within the businesses those risks which our employees have the skills and expertise to understand and leverage: and identifying appropriate risk mitigation techniques and countermeasures.
Meetings The Committee met three times in 2018.
A summary of the Committees activities throughout the year is below.
Members Key Risk Management Committee Our Risk Management Committee comprises: activities 2018 No.
of meetings attended Attendance total no.
meetings held % April Nicholas Anderson Chair 3 3 100% Reviewed proposed Crisis Management Plan Agreed to key actions related to crisis management Kevin Boyd 3 3 100% Neil Daws 3 3 100% Jay Whalen 3 3 100% August Jim Devine 3 3 100% Reviewed the top-down risk summary Mike Sutter 3 3 100% Confirmed risk countermeasures in place at Group Andy Robson 3 3 100% operating companies 1 Dan Harvey 1 1 100% 1 Joined the Committee on 1st December 2018 How the Committee spent its time December Updated and approved the risk register, based on the 20% Internal controls top-down review 10% Review of principal risks Updated the principal risks Approved recommendations for Brexit preparedness Risk management framework including Approved the appointment of the Head of Internal Audit as 20% 15% top-down review a Committee member Anti-bribery Crisis Management Plan Internal audit and 15% tax compliance 20% 86 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Chairs review of 2018 Identifying emerging and principal risks We have a robust risk management process in place through Summary of key focus areas 2018 which we identify, evaluate and manage the principal risks and In keeping with the goals set for the year, in 2018 the Committee emerging risks that could impact the Groups performance.
formalised its Crisis Management Plan.
In conjunction with that process, the Committee undertook the additional tasks of During 2018, we reviewed the Groups exposure to risk using designating incident officers for each of the businesses, agreeing a top-down approach.
Following this process, the Committee to organise media training for senior management and arranging reviewed and confirmed the robustness of the countermeasures to place a public relations firm on retainer.
that Group companies have in place to mitigate the principal risks in the Group risk register.
Our principal risks and the results of the The Committee completed its biennial top-down review of risks, 2018 review are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 30 to 33. and updated the Group risk register accordingly.
The Committee also continued to monitor the on-going Brexit negotiations, and Monitoring effectiveness: approved specific preparedness actions for a potential no deal i Risk management systems Brexit.
The Committee is responsible for reporting to the Board the risks facing the Group and the countermeasures related to those risks.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC To fulfil that responsibility, the Committee oversees the Groups The Group has continued to reinforce the message of zero risk management processes and procedures, with reliance on tolerance for bribery and corruption within its businesses.
the Audit Committee for oversight of the Group companies.
In 2018, that message was strengthened by the improvement Further, the Committee is charged with the on-going monitoring and expansion of our online ABC training.
This new ABC training of sufficient and effective mitigation plans for relevant risks at each is hosted by the Spirax Sarco Academy as part of the Group Group operating company and business group.
Essentials training module, which also provides training to employees on a range of fundamental topics, such as Group Each operating company is required to undertake a formal Values, H&S and cybersecurity.
The reach of this training has also review, at least once a year, of the risks which impact, or have the been expanded so that each employee with an email address is potential to impact, its business.
The reviews are consolidated into required to complete the course.
Group-wide risk reports which are maintained and reviewed by the Committee on a regular basis.
Additionally, the risk management By the end of 2018, the new training was available in eight key processes are monitored on an on-going basis via internal and languages, with an additional eight languages to follow in early external audits of Group companies.
In 2018, 1,346 employees completed the new ABC course, accountability of the risk management within their businesses.
with an additional 487 employees completing the ABC training under the existing course.
The governance structure provides three lines of defence in the Groups risk management, as illustrated on page 88.
The Group also uses an independent, third-party whistle-blowing hotline to enable employees to anonymously report any unethical, ii Internal control systems illegal or otherwise concerning conduct.
Additionally, in line with Since 2013 the Group has employed a specific on-going review our Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality Policy, we maintain an process for identifying and managing risks faced by the Group.
online gift register, where employees record gifts so as to ensure The process includes assessment of the effectiveness of all our conduct is in keeping with our highest ethical expectations material controls, including financial, operational and compliance and within the law.
controls, as well as risk management systems.
The review confirms that proper accounting records have been maintained, Further updates on whistle-blowing and ABC can be found in our that financial information used within the business is reliable and Sustainability Report on page 60. that the preparation of the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements and the financial reporting process comply with all Modern Slavery Statement relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
The Group has updated its Modern Slavery Statement to reflect the Groups Values and the interplay between those Values and our commitment to the mission behind the UK Modern Slavery Act.
The updated Statement also tracks our progress in incorporating our new acquisitions into our Global Excellence in Supply Chain Initiative.
The 2018 Statement can be found on the Groups website, www.
com, under Sustainability Supply Chain.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 87 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Governance Report 4.
Audit, risk and internal control continued Risk Management Three lines of defence Committee continued Every year, via a self-certification questionnaire, General Managers First line of defence and Finance Managers of every Group company are required The business is responsible for the identification, control to self-certify compliance with the policies, procedures and and management of its own risks minimum requirements for an effective system of internal controls.
The Committee uses this information, as well as information from the top-down and bottom-up risk review processes, to have Second line of defence meaningful and on-going oversight of risks across the business.
The Risk Management Committee, with the Audit Whilst internal controls are not an absolute assurance against Committee, ensures that the risk and compliance material misstatement or loss, the Board believes the regular cycle framework is effective so as to facilitate the monitoring of review paired with internal monitoring provides a commercially of risk management with on-going challenge and review sound approach to protect the Group from the risks that are a of the risk profile in the business necessary part of its operations.
As required by the UK Listing Authority, throughout the year and up to the date of the publication of the Annual Report, the Group has complied with the Code Third line of defence provisions on internal controls.
Internal audits provide independent testing and verification of compliance with policies and procedures and monitoring of iii Internal audit follow-up actions where required.
The Groups standard policy regarding internal auditing is that each operating company is audited once every five years most We aim toconfirm that the level of risk is commensurate with more frequently.
Operating companies located in higher risk the strategic and economic benefits the risk might bring: we territories are audited more frequently, and businesses acquired evaluate our ability to control the risk or mitigate its effects, should by the Group are subject to internal audit within six months that risk materialise: and we always assess the potential ethical of completion.
considerations arising from knowingly accepting some level of risk.
The internal audit system is a crucial part of the risk management process.
These internal audits are conducted by experienced, An informed and well-considered process is crucial to any qualified accounting staff from principal operating companies decision to accept risk.
The Committee has undertaken a anda professional auditing firm, BDO International.
Additionally, thorough evaluation process to determine an appropriate risk in2018 the Head of Internal Audit recruited a full-time team appetite rating for each principal risk.
These are set out on in detail member to support the function.
Audit reports are made to the Audit Committee and the Board In summary, the Group has a very low appetite for risks that could asa whole.
The Committee has ensured compliance with centrally lead to violations of health, safety and environmental legislation, documented control procedures on such matters ascapital orto breaches of legal and regulatory requirements.
expenditure, information and technology security andlegal and In contrast, the Group has a high risk appetite in relation to regulatory compliance.
economic and political instability: with decades of experience insuccessfully managing operations in volatile markets, we have Risk Appetite Statement the control procedures in place to handle the challenges that Risk is an inherent part of business and, in order to achieve come with those risks and we appreciate that without taking risks our business aims, we must accept certain risks.
We seek in new, albeit sometimes unstable, territories we would miss out to implement a balanced approach to risk, ensuring that on valuable opportunities for growth.
ourresources are protected while still pursuing opportunities toaccelerate and deliver growth.
As an organisation we are risk aware, but not risk averse.
We continually monitor and assess the risks facing the Group The decision to take opportunity-based risks should, to the and evaluate our ability to control them and mitigate their effects.
greatest extent possible, be deliberate and calculated.
Focusing on our strategic objectives, we evaluate our risk appetite and decisions to accept risk in a way that will ensure the on-going financial health of the Group.
88 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Whilst no Board can ever fully foresee all possible risks facing the Viability Statement business in the future, the Directors are of the view that a robust The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a assessment was undertaken of the severe but plausible scenarios three-year period, taking into account the Groups current financial that may feasibly impact upon the business over the next three position, business strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the years.
We have also assumed that our various finance facilities potential impacts of the principal risks, outlined on pages 30 to 33 will continue to be available.
Furthermore, the Board remains of the Strategic Report, and the Risk Appetite Statement on page confident in the Groups risk management process and the risk 88.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they mitigation actions taken to address identified risks.
have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over A number of scenarios were developed from the Groups the three-year period to 31st December 2021. principal risks, and the impact on future viability of the two most severe butplausible scenarios happening simultaneously, was The Board believes that a three-year viability assessment period assessed.
The scenarios being major economic political instability isappropriate as the timeframe is covered by the Groups rolling and a significant breach of legal and regulatory requirements.
financial forecasts: takes into account the nature of the Groups This analysis demonstrated that even in these extreme principal risks, anumber of which are external and have the circumstances, the Group maintains its viability.
In addition potential to impact over short time periods.
While the Board has to this impact assessment, the Directors alsoconsidered the no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over a longer probability of occurrence of the principal risks, the Companys period, given the inherent uncertainty involved, the Board believes ability to control them and the effectiveness of mitigating actions.
that a three-year period presents readers of the Annual Report No viability issues resulted.
with a reasonable degree of confidence while still providing a longer-term perspective.
Brexit is a focus of the Committee and an update on activity and actions taken to mitigate the impacts of Brexit on the Group are In making their assessment, the Directors completed a robust detailed in the Strategic Report on page 29.
Further disclosure assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, as set out on actions taken relating to Brexit are included in the Governance pages 30 to 33 of the Strategic Report, including those that could Report on page 69.
The risks arising from a no deal Brexit were threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or considered as part of the viability assessment, but the impact on liquidity, and undertook sensitivity and stress testing todetermine future viability was not considered as significant.
the potential impacts of the occurrence of one or more of the principal risks on sales, profit, margin and cash.
Whilst the viability of the Group has been assessed over a threeyear period, the Directors have also assessed the prospects of the In addition to completing an impact assessment of the principal Group over the longer term.
Disclosures relating to the longer term risks, the Directors considered the probability of occurrence of are set out on the inside cover of the Annual Report: Engineering the principal risks, the Companys ability to control them and sustainable growth, and in Our business model on pages 12 to 15. theeffectiveness of mitigating actions.
Committee focus for 2019 The Groups resilient business model has proven strong and defensive in the long term and has enabled the business to Continue to monitor and update preparedness plan for Brexit prosper, even in challenging market conditions.
The diversity of Full assessment of the impact of climate change our end user markets and customers, broad product range, wide Bottom-up risk review geographic spread, high replacement revenue streams andlarge base of installed equipment worldwide, together with our effective direct sales business model, enhances the viability of the Group Nicholas Anderson in the face of adverse economic conditions and or political Chair of Risk Management Committee uncertainty, as does our ability to self-generate business through identifying solutions to our customers difficult process challenges and our ability to adjust our cost base.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 89 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report
