THE BOARD DR KEITH HELLAWELL QPM Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Appointed: 24 November 2009 Committees: Nomination and Remuneration Committees Previous roles: Prior to joining the team at Sports Direct International plc, Dr Hellawell spent over 40 years in public sector management being a former Chief Constable of two British police forces.
While working directly for the Prime Minister between 1998 and 2002 he wrote and coordinated the United Kingdom national and international anti-drugs policy.
Dr Hellawell has been involved in the private sector since 1998 when he joined Evans of Leeds, a fully listed property company.
Since then he has served on the Boards of both Dalkia plc and Sterience Limited, subsidiaries of the French company Veolia Env.
He was Non-Executive Chairman of Goldshield Group plc, a marketing-led pharmaceutical and consumer health company, from May 2006 to its sale in December 2009.
He has held a number of other NonExecutive Board positions in private companies in sectors such as vehicle manufacturing and IT.
Present roles: Dr Hellawell is currently a Non-Executive Director of Mortice plc, a Singapore-based facilities management company, a Director of the Super League team Huddersfield Giants and Non-Executive Chairman of Smart Witness Limited, a leading designer, manufacturer, and supplier of in-vehicle cameras, recorders, and software.
He also runs his own management and training consultancy company.
There have been no changes to Dr Hellawell's significant commitments outside the Company during FY18.
Key skills and experiences: Dr Hellawell has worked in both the public and private sector for over 50 years.
Throughout this time he has built up a wealth of experience which he brings to the Group to ensure the successful and effective operation of the Board.
MIKE ASHLEY Chief Executive Appointed: 1982 founder Previous roles: Mike established the business of the Group on leaving school in 1982 and was the sole owner until the Groups listing in March 2007.
He was Executive Deputy Chairman prior to being appointed Chief Executive in September 2016.
Key skills and experiences: Mike was the founder of the Group and has the necessary skills for formulating the vision and commercial strategy of the Group.
With over 30 years in the sports retail business with Sports Direct he is invaluable to the Group.
JON KEMPSTER Chief Financial Officer Appointed: 11 September 2017 Previous roles: Jon has been a listed plc Finance Director for most of his career.
He was previously Finance Director of Wincanton plc, Delta plc, Low & Bonar plc, Linden plc, fii plc and of AIM listed Utilitywise plc.
Present roles: Jon is a director of JVM Ltd, a private group who have exclusive dealerships to sell construction equipment in Russia.
Jon is also a Non-Executive Director of Redcentric plc, an AIM listed IT managed services provider and a Trustee of the Delta Pension Plan.
Key skills and experiences: Jon is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive experience working in listed company environments.
