Directors Report Corporate Governance CHAIRMANS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Dear Shareholder, This was achieved through a dedicated project In addition to the activities which allow us team and considered reporting to the Board, to personally observe and gauge the visible It has been another year in which the as well as appropriate challenge and support aspects of SSEs culture, the work of the Board prevailing market and policy trends in the UK from the Board.
Further insight into some of Committees is central to ensuring that there and Ireland energy sector have formed the these matters can be found in the dedicated is appropriate alignment between our culture, backdrop to many of the Boards discussions, Case Study on pages 100 to 101. core values, purpose and strategy.
During and in which the matters considered by the the year, the work of the Audit Committee Board have been wide-ranging, interesting, Whilst the planned SSE Energy Services has continued to provide assurance and challenging at times.
As highlighted transaction was a key decision during the surrounding: the integrity of our financial within the Strategic Report, it has been period, focus on our primary role to ensure reporting: the relationships with the External a period of renewal for SSE, and a time in the successful leadership of the Group and its Auditor and Internal Audit function: and which the Board has maintained focus on current businesses has remained central to the risk management and internal control the long-term priorities for the Group.
A particularly positive report strategic considerations have centred on SSEs assessing business performance, opportunities in 2017 18 was the continued and increased core strengths and delivering against our firm and challenges, within each of Wholesale, use of SSEs dedicated whistleblowing line, commitment to create value for shareholders Networks, Retail and Enterprise, and SafeCall.
Further details of SSEs approach to, and society through the sustainable decisions considering progress in respect of SSEs creating a culture in which employees feel able we take.
In line with our responsibilities established long-term capital investment to speak up, responding to wrongdoing and as a Board, we also recognise the need to programme, we have sought to ensure that supporting those who do the right thing is set listen and adapt to the changing needs of each business is well positioned to prepare SSE out on page 85.
In line with the processes that stakeholders that SSE interacts and relies for the future.
Discussions have been cognisant preserve the independence of the external upon, and who are affected by its operations.
of the need for balanced and sustainable audit relationship, we have also received In recognition of the importance of this area, operations, which will allow SSE to continue updates in respect of the forward-looking we have endeavoured to further enhance to serve in the public interest and remunerate work relating to the planned tender of this our reporting surrounding the breadth of the investment made by our shareholders.
contract, which will be led by the Audit stakeholder engagement which currently This commitment has been demonstrated Committee in 2018 19. takes place, and this, along with details of in the year through efficient and disciplined the issues which are recognised by the Board capital investment of around 1.5bn, a large The remit of the Safety, Health and Advisory as material to each of SSEs key stakeholder proportion of which was invested in regulated Committee was reviewed during the year, groups, are covered on page 116. electricity networks infrastructure and and following agreement of the Board, renewable generation, and delivery of adjusted will now provide sharper focus to SSEs In November 2017, we announced a earnings per share ahead of expectations at commitment to being a responsible company, proposed demerger of SSEs household the start of the year.
More detail of specific that makes good decisions for the long term, energy and services business in Great Britain Board activity and focus areas for 2017 18 and a positive contribution to the communities now named SSE Energy Services, and are set out on pages 95 to 96. and societies of which it is part.
Details of this immediate combination of that business with change can be found on pages 118 to 119. innogy SEs subsidiary npower to form a new Taking the right decisions and ensuring that independent UK-based group.
Following this SSE does the right thing by its shareholders, transaction, the SSE Group of businesses will employees, customers and wider society have a renewed focus on creating value are well recognised facets of SSEs culture, through the development, ownership and and attitudes which are supported through operation of energy and related infrastructure a firm commitment to high standards of and services.
The Board recognises that these corporate governance.
During the year, we decisions will result in a period of change for have continued to engage on cultural issues SSE, however believes they remain consistent at all levels throughout the Group, in order with the need to respond to the changing to deepen our understanding of how the sector in order to best support all of our values, standards and processes agreed and stakeholders.
They also align with, and are a demonstrated at a senior level are embedded natural build on, SSEs core competencies and perceived by the greater workforce, and areas which were considered through the in turn drive employee behaviour.
As always, strategic agenda in respect of a platform for direct engagement with employees from future growth.
To ensure that all deliberations across all areas of the business and within a in respect of the above proposal were vast range of roles, is considered invaluable balanced and reflective of our purpose and and one of the many highlights of the Board values to maintain sustainable operations, calendar.
Insights gained from a number of appropriate time was spent understanding the these engagements can be found on pages potential impact, now and in the longer term, 97, 98 and 104 of the report that follows.
for those stakeholders who are likely to be affected by the decision.
88 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Through the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Each year, through this Directors Report, of large organisations today.
Many of the Governance Code the Code underpins we describe how we have applied the Main initiatives which have been considered by the overarching Corporate Governance Principles of the Code and in line with its the FRC including those in relation to: Framework for premium listed companies comply or explain model we detail any corporate culture: diversity: strengthening within the UK.
The Code is published by departures from its specific provisions.
the stakeholder voice: and adopting the Financial Reporting Council FRC For 2017 18 we are reporting against the appropriate remuneration structures and is available to view on their website.
2016 version of the Code and confirm are areas in which the Board is already full compliance with its provisions.
committed to providing focus and It contains principles and provisions upholding high standards of corporate which set out standards of good practice in During the year, the Board engaged with governance.
We hope that this is evidenced relation to Board leadership, effectiveness, the FRCs public consultation surrounding through both the Directors and Strategic accountability, relations with shareholders the proposed revisions to the Code and is Reports, and welcome the integration of and remuneration, and this Directors Report supportive of the approach to refresh the relevant guiding standards into the Codes is structured accordingly.
existing framework given the wide societal highly regarded framework.
impact and greater corporate responsibility The Remuneration Committee agenda including the recommendations of the and wish them well in all future endeavours.
continued to apply focus to the key matters Hampton-Alexander and Parker Reviews and As a result of the above, changes to of Company and individual Executive Director the proposed revisions to the Code.
Notable Committee membership have also performance, and the consideration of outputs from this work included a revised been agreed by the Board as follows.
Sue appropriate targets for 2018 and beyond.
Board Diversity Policy and ambitions for Bruce became Chair of the Remuneration Whilst specific engagement between the female representation in senior roles, both of Committee on 1 May 2018, following her Committee Chair and a group of employee which are discussed within the Nomination joining as a member on 1 December 2017, representatives, including trade unions, also Committee Report on pages 105 to 108. and Helen Mahy will become Chair of the took place in the period.
Discussions covered Safety, Health and Environment Advisory a wide range of topics including the executive Relevant findings have also been used to Committee when Jeremy ceases in the pay landscape, and will form a regular part of inform plans for future Board refreshment role.
All of the above changes were ongoing engagement with the wider workforce and to assess areas in which we may wish to made upon the recommendation going forward.
In recognition of the potential enhance our capabilities.
The potential benefits of the Nomination Committee.
impact of the planned SSE Energy Services which increased sector experience would transaction on our current employee share bring to our considerations was identified I hope you find the information which plans, work was also initiated in respect of their in the Board evaluation, and I am extremely follows in this Directors Report informative review.
Details of the above are set out in the pleased to confirm that we welcomed two and interesting.
Committees respective report on pages 120 new appointments to the Board in the year.
Martin Pibworth joined us as an Executive Director on 1 September 2017 and Tony Board culture is monitored on an ongoing Cocker joined as a non-Executive Director on basis, with high quality and transparent 1 May 2018.
Both Martin and Tony possess a Board procedures being recognised as depth of operational knowledge and Im sure key to supporting effective performance.
they will bring excellent sector oversight and Richard Gillingwater CBE Formal assessment of which is conducted valuable perspectives to the Board.
Full details Chairman through our well-established annual of the process which was used for each of the 24 May 2018 evaluation process, which in 2017 18, was above appointments can be found on page again internally-led.
This will be followed 106 within the Nomination Committee Report, by an external evaluation in 2018 19.
As with and information surrounding the relevant previous years, we report against progress induction programmes is set out on page 104.
Documents available made in the period and provide details of on sse.
com actions agreed for the coming year, which In addition to these appointments, further SSEs Articles of Association can be found on pages 102 to 103. changes to membership have taken place, with Katie Bickerstaffe having stepped down Schedule of Matters Reserved for In recognition of the many attributes of an from the Board on 30 April 2018 following the Board effective Board, significant focus has also her appointment as Chief Executive Designate Non-Executive Letters of Appointment been given to our own composition and of the new combined independent retail the diversity this represents.
As announced on 24 May 2018, Terms of Reference for the annual evaluation process, the work of Jeremy Beeton will also be stepping down as a Board Committees the Nomination Committee, and investor non-Executive Director, and this will follow the Board Diversity Policy feedback, we have reviewed and challenged conclusion of the AGM on 19 July 2018.
Katie where appropriate: our succession plans: and Jeremy each have almost seven years of Non-Audit Services Policy the skills and knowledge required by the service, and on behalf of the Board, I would like Board: and relevant external developments, to thank them both for their contribution to SSE SSE plc Annual Report 2018 89
