CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Report, which confirms that for the year ended 29 April 2018, the Group has complied with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is diligent in its responsibilities in this area and will continue to develop and refine its approach to deliver best practices.
Our Board and senior management team lead by example to provide a strong corporate governance framework which is distilled throughout our business and processes.
The Company has established an executive corporate governance group.
Members of senior management including the Company Secretary, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer meet to discuss issues including people, finance, risk, regulatory and legal matters and stakeholder engagement.
Board members are provided with copies of the minutes of these meetings.
Sports Direct will continue to invest and make decisions in the long term interest of our customers, people and shareholders.
Our ambition is to continue to create shareholder value in a volatile trading environment underpinned by a robust approach to governance.
Keith Hellawell Chairman 18 July 2018 COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Group complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which is the version of the Code that applies to FY18.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
The sections below detail how the Group has complied with the Code.
Disclosures in relation to DTR 7.2.
8 diversity are set out on pages 96 to 99.
A LEADERSHIP A1 THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is responsible for overseeing the long term success of the Group and for setting and overseeing the execution of the business strategy in accordance with our stated aims of delivering value for customers, people and shareholders.
The Board has a formal schedule of regular meetings where it approves major decisions, and utilises its expertise to advise and influence the business.
The Board will meet on other occasions as and when the business demands.
During FY18 the Board met eight times.
The Board is also available to advise on other issues which arise day to day.
A detailed agenda is established for each scheduled meeting, and appropriate documentation is provided to Directors in advance of the meeting.
Regular Board meetings provide an agenda that will include reports from the Chief Executive, reports on the performance of the business and current trading, and specific proposals where the approval of the Board is sought.
The Board will monitor and question performance and review anticipated results.
Areas discussed include strategic investments, the elevation strategy, capital expenditure, Brexit and treasury.
The Board has also received updates throughout the year on topical matters such as GDPR and the gender pay gap.
The Board receives reports from the Workers Representative who is in attendance at all scheduled Board meetings.
Presentations are also given on business or strategic issues where appropriate, and the Board will consider at least annually the strategy for the Group.
Minutes of the meetings from Committees of the Board are circulated to all members of the Board, unless a conflict of interest arises, to enable all Directors to have oversight of those matters delegated to Committees.
Copies of analysts reports and brokers notes are also provided to Directors.
102 There are three Board committees, namely, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The committees are governed by terms of reference which provide details of matters delegated to each committee.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Matters Reserved for the Board There is a formal schedule of matters that require Board approval, they are matters that could have significant strategic, financial or reputational effects on the Group as a whole.
These were reviewed in FY18 and include: Setting of budgets Setting of the companys values and standards Approval of strategic aims and objectives Approval of acquisitions and disposals Appointments and removal of Board members Succession planning Overall responsibility for internal control and risk management as described on pages 87 to 93 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year and the total number of meetings that they could have attended are set out in the table below.
All Directors attended all meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board of which they were members unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The meetings which took place throughout the year were a mixture of both scheduled meetings, general matters, and unscheduled meetings, for more urgent matters.
Remuneration Nomination Board Meetings: Board Meetings: Audit Committee Committee Committee Scheduled Unscheduled Meetings Meetings Meetings Keith Hellawell 6 6 2 2 - 3 3 2 2 1 Mike Ashley 5 6 2 2 - - - 2 Simon Bentley 4 6 2 2 2 3 2 3 2 2 David Brayshaw 6 6 2 2 3 3 3 3 2 2 3 David Daly 3 3 1 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 4 Claire Jenkins - - - - - 5 Jon Kempster 3 3 2 2 - - - 6 Dave Singleton 3 3 - 1 1 1 1 - 1 Mike Ashley did not attend one scheduled Board meeting, with the prior permission of the Board due to competing demands for his time in other areas of the business.
2 Simon Bentley was unable to attend two scheduled Board meetings due to medical reasons.
3 Meetings attended by David Daly following his appointment on 2 October 2017 4 Claire Jenkins resigned from the Board prior to any Board or committee meetings being held during FY18.
5 Meetings attended by Jon Kempster following his appointment on 11 September 2017 6 Meetings attended by Dave Singleton until his resignation on 6 September 2017 Note: A number of Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee meetings were attended by Board members who were not members of the Committees.
The Board members concerned attended these meetings at the invitation of the Committee members.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance Appropriate insurance cover is maintained by the Company in respect of its Directors and Officers.
A2 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBLITIES The division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive is in writing and was reviewed and agreed by the Board in FY18.
However, they work closely together to ensure effective decision making and the successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 103 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with Chief Executive Mike Ashley, whose wholly-owned companies, MASH Holdings Limited and MASH Beta Limited, currently hold approximately 4.9% and 56.11% respectively of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 18 July 2018.
This agreement is described in the Directors Report on page 97.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the Groups business for the delivery of the strategy for the Group, leading the management team and implementing specific decisions made by the Board to help meet shareholder expectations.
He also takes the lead in strategic development, by formulating the vision and strategy for the Group.
The Chief Executive reports to each Board meeting on all material matters affecting the Groups performance.
No one individual has unfettered power of decision.
Given the structure of the Board, the fact that the Chairman and Chief Executive roles are fulfilled by two separate individuals and the terms of the Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the Board believes that no individual or small group of individuals can disproportionately influence the Boards decision making.
A3 THE CHAIRMAN The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring constructive communications between Board members and that all Directors are able to play a full part in the activities of the Company.
He is responsible for setting Board agendas and ensuring that Board meetings are effective and that all directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chairman officiates effective communication with shareholders and ensures that the Board understands the views of major investors, and is available to provide advice and support to members of the Executive team.
Upon his appointment the Chairman met the independence criteria set out in section B.
A4 THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS There are currently three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to understand the Group in its entirety and constructively challenge strategy and management performance, set Executive remuneration levels and ensure an appropriate succession planning strategy is in place.
They must also ensure they are satisfied with the accuracy of financial information and that thorough risk management processes are in place.
The Non-Executive Directors have excellent experience from a wide range of sectors.
The Non-Executive Directors assist the Board with issues such as governance, internal control, remuneration and risk management.
Simon Bentley is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He supports the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and is available to shareholders if they have concerns.
There were a number of meetings throughout the year which were solely for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Meetings also took place which were attended by Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman was appraised during one of these meetings and led by the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director, Simon Bentley.
B EFFECTIVENESS B1 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD The Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, Keith Hellawell, the Chief Executive, Mike Ashley, the Chief Financial Officer, Jon Kempster, and three further independent Non-Executive Directors.
The names, skills and short profiles of each member of the Board, together with details of membership of Board committees are set out on pages 94 to 95.
Each year the Board considers the independence of each Non-Executive Director in accordance with the Code.
The most recent review did not highlight any Directors who lacked independence.
104 The Board continues to support our longest serving Non-Executive Director, Simon Bentley, who has been a Board member since 2007.
The Board greatly values Simons experience and his strong contribution to debate.
In supporting Simon, the Board has taken full account of the Codes requirements to consider carefully a Non-Executive Directors independence where that Director has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
The Board is of the view that Simon continues to be independent, that there are no issues likely to affect his independent judgement and that he is not financially dependent upon the fee he receives from the Company.
B2 APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD The Company has a Nomination Committee comprised of all the Non-Executive Directors and Chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge experience and diversity of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
It is also responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies.
The work of the Nomination Committee is described on pages 113 to 114.
Non-Executive Directors with the exception of the Chairman whose agreement continues until terminated in accordance with its terms are appointed for an initial term of three years.
All directors are subject to annual reelection.
B3 COMMITMENT Non-Executive Directors are required to disclose prior appointments and other significant commitments to the Board and are required to inform the Board of any changes to or additional commitments.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors external appointments can be found on pages 94 to 95.
Before accepting new appointments, Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain approval from the Chairman, and the Chairman requires the approval of the whole Board.
It is essential that no appointment causes a conflict of interest or impacts on the Non-Executive Directors commitment and time spent with the Group in their existing appointment.
The time specified in Non-Executive Directors letters of appointments, to be committed to the role was reviewed by the Nomination Committee in FY18 and deemed to be appropriate.
Details of Executive Directors service contracts, and of the Chairmans and the Non-Executive Directors appointment letters, are given on pages 122 to 123.
Copies of service contracts and of appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
Neither of the Executive Directors hold a directorship of another FTSE 100 company.
B4 DEVELOPMENT All newly appointed Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to their existing skills and experience and includes warehouse and store visits, legal update on directors duties and one on ones with members of the senior management team.
The Board is informed of any material changes to governance, laws and regulations affecting the Groups business.
Directors are provided with details of relevant training courses and training needs are reviewed by the Chairman during the annual Board evaluation process.
B5 INFORMATION AND SUPPORT All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and each Director and each Board Committee may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, subject to prior notification to the other Non-Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 105 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued The Company Secretary has responsibility for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and during FY18 reports have been provided to the Board on the FRCs reform of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the new governance code for Large Private Companies.
Training was also provided on directors duties, relevant Listing Rules obligations and the Market Abuse Regulations.
B6 EVALUATION The practices and processes of the Board and its committees are evaluated on a yearly basis.
Following evaluations the feedback obtained is considered and the Board act on the issues which have been raised.
The most recent Board evaluation in FY18 was conducted internally using a questionnaire.
The Directors believe that the Board and its committees are working effectively.
The last external evaluation of the Board was undertaken in FY17 by NJMD Corporate Services Limited NJMD.
NJMD are an independent consultancy specialising in board performance evaluation and have no connection to the Company other than undertaking the external board evaluation in 2014.
The Non-Executive Directors led by Simon Bentley, as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, have reviewed the performance of the Chairman taking into account the views of Executive Directors.
All directors performance is reviewed by the Chairman to ensure their performance remains effective and that they are committed to the role.
B7 EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - RE-ELECTION The Board has determined that all Directors seeking re-appointment, and recommended by the Nomination Committee, must put themselves forward for re-election at the 2018 AGM to comply with the Code.
All Directors appointed by the Board during the year after consideration of the recommendations of the Nomination Committee must stand for election at the AGM following their appointment.
C ACCOUNTABILITY C1 FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING It is the responsibility of the Directors to ensure that the accounts are prepared and submitted.
Having assessed the current Annual Report, along with the accounts, the Directors confirm that, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Directors also confirm that these documents provide the necessary information in order for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Details of the business model and strategy are contained in the Strategic Report on pages 52 to 87.
The going concern statement provided by the Directors is on page 101 of the Directors Report.
The independent auditors report is set out on pages 131 to 141.
C2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
Details of these risks are set out on pages 87 to 93.
The Board has reviewed the Companys risk management and internal control systems during FY18 and consider them to be effective.
C3 AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS The Company has an Audit Committee comprised of all the independent Non-Executive Directors and Chaired by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Audit Committee report on pages 107 to 112 details how the Group has complied with Section C3 of the Code relating to Audit Committees.
D REMUNERATION The Company has a Remuneration Committee comprised of all the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
David Brayshaw is the Chair.
The Remuneration report on pages 115 to 128 details how the Company has complied with Section D of the Code relating to the Remuneration Committee.
106 E RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS E1 DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS Upon his appointment, the Chief Financial Officer met with a number of major shareholders and analysts together with the then newly appointed Head of Strategic Investments.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer have also met with shareholders throughout the year to discuss the Groups strategy and performance and on occasions specifically the Group Audit.
The Company has undertaken collective face-to-face briefings for analysts and investors on announcement of the half year and annual results.
E2 CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE AGM Directors are available at and following general meetings when shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions on the business of the meeting.
The Company Secretary, the Companys auditors and the Registrars are in attendance at general meetings to assist with any queries shareholders may have.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders a minimum of 20 working days before the meeting.
For other general meetings the Notice and accompanying paperwork is sent out a minimum of fourteen working days in advance.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 2018 Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018.
The Committee has an important role to play in effective reporting to our stakeholders and ensuring high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit process.
It is also responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal control and risk management policies and systems.
This report provides an overview of: The membership of the Committee and how often it has met during the year: The main responsibilities of the Committee: What the Committee has done during the year: How the Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the external auditors, including ensuring their independence: The Committees opinion on the Annual Report when viewed as a whole: and The Boards view of the Committees own effectiveness and what is planned for 2019.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are part way through the process of undertaking an audit tender process.
In order to achieve an efficient and orderly handover, our current intention is to ask our shareholders to approve re-appointment of Grant Thornton for one further year at the AGM.
We intend to announce our proposed new auditors later this year on conclusion of the tender process, who will therefore be in place for the year ended April 2020.
MEMBERSHIP I am Chairman of the Committee and the other members are David Daly and David Brayshaw.
Biographical details of each Committee member are set out in the Directors profiles on pages 94 to 95 of this Annual Report.
As Chairman of the Committee and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director I am satisfied that the Committees membership includes directors with recent and relevant financial experience and competence in accounting and that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the retail sector in which the Group operates.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 107 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued MEETINGS The Committee met three times during the year.
Non-Committee members of the Board and the management team, including Mike Ashley and Jon Kempster, have attended Committee meetings during the year at my invitation so that they can keep the Committee informed of important developments in the business and the risk and control environment.
The attendance of members of the Executive management team at these meetings also helps to reinforce a strong culture of risk management within the business.
Our external auditors, Grant Thornton UK LLP, attended all Committee meetings during the year.
After the Committee meetings the Committee members met with Grant Thornton without any of the Non-Committee members of the Board or Executive management team present.
In my capacity as Chairman of the Committee, I also met with Philip Westerman, the lead audit partner at Grant Thornton, on three additional occasions during the year as part of the Committees assessment of Grant Thorntons effectiveness as our external auditors.
Further details of this assessment are set out below.
THE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INCLUDE: Assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal and external audits and controls: Considering and making recommendations to the Board on the reappointment of the external auditors: Agreeing the nature and scope of the external audit and monitoring the same: Monitoring the external audit, including reviewing the results of the external audit and its independence, objectivity, effectiveness, and reviewing and agreeing the external auditors fee: Agreeing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work that may be undertaken by the external auditors: Monitoring and making judgements and recommendations on the Groups financial reporting processes and the integrity and clarity of the Groups financial statements as well as any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them: Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control systems and internal control and risk management systems, including a review of the activities of the internal audit function: Reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about any improprieties in matters of financial reporting: Informing the Board of the outcome of the audit and explaining how the audit contributed to the integrity of the financial report and what the role of the committee was in that process: and Reporting to the Board on how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the year.
WHAT HAS THE COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR?
During the year, and as further described below, the Committee has: Monitored the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, particularly in light of the current macroeconomic climate and its likely impact on the Group: Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and considered the reappointment of Grant Thornton as external auditors for 2019: Reviewed Group accounting policies, presentations and the financial statements: Advised the Board on its interactions with the Financial Reporting Councils Corporate Reporting Review Team, as further described below: and Together with the Board, considered the Committees own effectiveness.
INTERNAL CONTROLS As one of the fastest growing retailers, with rapidly expanding overseas and online operations, the Group has many complex operational risks to manage.
Information on the Groups approach to internal control and risk management is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 87 to 93 of this Annual Report.
108 Central to the Groups system of internal controls has been the work undertaken by its Retail Support Unit.
The Retail Support Unit conducts internal audits across the Groups retail operations each year, providing internal assurance in relation to the efficacy of the Groups controls over the operational procedures and systems which generate and report trading data for the purposes of compiling the Groups financial statements.
In the prior year there were various changes to the Executive management team and the decision was made to suspend certain activities including the continuation of BDO as internal auditor.
Following the appointment of Jon Kempster as the new Group Chief Financial Officer and Chris Wootton as his Deputy we have re-commenced some internal audit activity to run alongside the Retail Support Unit.
This was recommenced towards the back end of the financial year and was performed by PKF Cooper Parry.
We intend to continue to build on this programme in the current year and will look to complement third party work with the recruitment of a dedicated internal resource.
The Committee focused on a number of significant areas of internal control during the year, including: Stock valuation and the calculation of associated provisions: Management of foreign currency exposures: Property investment in elevated stores formats: Property and the systems in place to ensure onerous lease provisions are recognised on a timely basis: External banking arrangements: The preparation and review of management accounts: Monitoring and reporting procedures in relation to budget variance: In addition to the above the Group has seen the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR recently with substantial work undertaken by an internal project team, assisted by an external consultancy.
In my role as Chairman of the Committee I saw that this was an important project and also very interesting and challenging as it touched on all areas of the business.
It has helped me understand the data use within the business and the actions undertaken to ensure compliance is a positive addition to the overall control environment.
The Committee remains of the view that the Groups internal controls continue to be effective.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS Our current external auditors, Grant Thornton, have been in place since the listing in February 2007.
To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external auditors are required to rotate audit partners for the Group audit every five years.
The current lead audit partner at Grant Thornton, Philip Westerman, has been in place for five years.
On an annual basis, the Committee considers the appointment or reappointment as applicable of the external auditors and their remuneration and makes recommendations to the Board.
The auditors are then proposed for appointment or reappointment as applicable each year at the AGM.
In making its recommendations to the Board, the Committee considers a number of factors relating to the level of service provided by the external auditors and their independence.
These include: The quality and scope of the planning of the external audit in assessing risks and how the external auditors have planned to evolve the audit plan to respond to changes in the business: The quality and timeliness of reports provided to the Committee and the Board by the external auditors during the year: The level of understanding that the external auditors have demonstrated in relation to the Groups businesses and the retail sector: The objectivity of the external auditors views on the internal controls around the Group and the robustness of challenge and findings on areas which require management judgement: The contents of any external reports or regulatory statements published in respect of the external auditor: and SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 109 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued The nature and scope of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and the level of fees charged for these services.
The FRCs Revised Ethical Standard for audit engagements came into effect on 17 June 2016.
It is applicable for accounting periods commencing on or after this date.
For Sports Direct, this is therefore applicable for the first time for this financial period commencing 1 May 2017.
A number of services historically provided to the Group by Grant Thornton are now prohibited under the Revised Ethical Standard, including any tax-related work.
The Committee carefully reviewed the Revised Ethical Standard in conjunction with Grant Thornton and the provision of all services that are now prohibited ceased with effect from 1 May 2017.
The Committee has agreed that, in the future, any proposed non-audit services by the external auditors will continue to require express pre-approval by the Committee to ensure that the requirements of the Revised Ethical Standard are complied with.
Overall, following its detailed assessment and discussions with Grant Thornton, the Committee believes that Grant Thorntons independence, the objectivity of the external audit and the effectiveness of the audit process is safeguarded and remains strong and that high standards for external audit have been maintained.
This is evident to the Committee in Grant Thorntons robust internal processes, their continuing challenge, their focused reporting and their discussions with both management and the Committee.
The Committee has therefore concluded that Grant Thornton remain effective as external auditors and has recommended to the Board that its current intention is for Grant Thornton be reappointed as the Groups external auditors for the 2019 financial year.
Non-audit fees charged by Grant Thornton for its UK services during the year were nil.
This compares to UK audit fees of 0.8m and other assurance fees of 0.1m.
In addition, member firms of Grant Thorntons international network provided audit and non-audit services to the Group with fees for non-audit services totalling 0.1m.
These non-audit services related primarily to tax compliance and advisory services.
The tax services were not prohibited under FRC 5.167R as they were in respect of non-EU entities.
Fees for international audit services were 0.4m.
More detail on fees charged by Grant Thornton is included in note 8 to the financial statements contained on page 166 of this Annual Report.
The Committee concluded that, due to the nature of the work and the safeguards in place, the provision of non-audit work did not compromise the independence or objectivity of Grant Thornton as the Groups external auditors.
The Committee was also satisfied that it was in the interests of the Group to be provided with these non-audit services from the external auditors because of Grant Thorntons deep understanding of the business and expertise in the relevant areas.
Phil Westerman had reached the end of his five year term, and we have requested his term be extended by one year to cover the FY19 audit.
We have made the FRC aware of our intentions and have consulted with our major shareholders over the extension of his term, who have been supportive of this, subject to the necessary procedures to ensure this remains compliant with the Ethical Standard requirements.
REVIEWED ACCOUNTING POLICIES, PRESENTATIONS AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board has asked the Committee to advise it on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
110 The Committee has reviewed the process for preparing this Annual Report, in order to assess whether other information contained in this Annual Report is consistent with the Groups financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018.
This process has included the following key elements: Review of new regulations and reporting requirements with external advisers to identify additional information and disclosures that may be appropriate for example, in relation to the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard, referred to above : Preparation of a detailed timetable and allocation of drafting responsibility to relevant internal teams with review by an appropriate senior manager: Provision of an explanation of the requirement for the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, to those with drafting responsibility: Monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements and other information provided to shareholders to ensure they represented a clear and accurate assessment of the Groups financial position and performance: Review of significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the financial statements: Review of all sections of the Annual Report by relevant external advisers: Review by the senior manager working group responsible for the Annual Report process: Interim progress review of process and Annual Report content with the Committee: and Overall review of the contents of the Annual Report and substantiation of why it provides a fair, balanced and understandable view of the year under review.
The Audit Committee also considered a number of areas arising during the audit including consideration of the accounting treatment for the Debenhams strategic investment.
The Committee has reviewed this Annual Report and Accounts and has advised the Board that it considers them, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
FINANCIAL REPORTING The Committees review of this years interim and full year financial statements focused on the following areas of significance: Revenue recognition accounting policies: Adequacy of inventory provisioning and assumptions inherent in the provision calculation: Acquisitions in the year, accounting, control and recoverability of any year end receivables to controlled entities and investments: Foreign currency impact on trading and eligibility for hedge accounting of forward currency contracts, financial instruments and hedging strategy: Control considerations and whether the Group has significant influence over investments and associates Completeness and disclosure of related party and other commercial relationships: and Quality of systems and management override of controls.
REVIEW OF THE COMMITTEES EFFECTIVENESS As advised in my report last year, we stated the need to focus on succession planning, both in relation to its own membership and also those members of the Board and management team with responsibility for the quality and effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting and external audit process, as well as its internal controls and risk management.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 111 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued In the year under review Jon Kempster has joined the Group as Chief Finanical Officer, Chris Wootton has been promoted to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer role, having joined the Group in the previous financial year.
The Group finance function has been invested in more widely with the addition of other very capable accountants.
Alistair Stewart joins us from RSM formerly Baker Tilly as Chris' replacement as Chief Accountant.
I am also pleased to announce that Katie Smith has been promoted internally to UK Group Financial Controller.
As such I see the finance function is better placed today to cope with the ever-increasing demands placed upon it to support the group in its growth aspirations.
The constitution of the Committee has changed with the addition of David Daly.
Simon Bentley Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors profiles on pages 94 to 95.
The Remuneration Committee consists of Non-Executive Directors who are considered independent and the Chairman.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board to ensure that Executive and Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate levels of pay and benefits.
A key priority is to ensure that remuneration policy is aligned with strategy to achieve the long-term success of the Group.
The Committee ensures that it complies with the requirements of regulatory and governance bodies including the UK Corporate Governance Code while meeting stakeholder, shareholder and staff expectations.
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE INCLUDE: Determining the Companys Policy on Executive remuneration, including the design of bonus schemes and targets, share schemes when appropriate, together with payments under them: Determining the level of remuneration of the Chairman and each of the Executive Directors: Monitoring the remuneration of senior management and making recommendations in that respect: Agreeing any compensation for loss of office of any Executive Director: and Ensuring that the Companys Remuneration Policy remains fit for purpose and takes note of the continuing enhancements proposed by regulatory bodies.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a year and met on three occasions during FY18.
Worked on the Share Scheme, including announcements: Reviewed and approved the Companys Remuneration policy: Considered the introduction of a new employee share scheme: Reviewed the Companys Gender Pay Gap Report: and Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report contained on pages 115 to 128.
Full details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 115 to 128.
David Brayshaw Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 July 2018 112 NOMINATION COMMITTEE In my role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I ensure that the Board remains competent, balanced and effective in order to meet the needs of the Group.
These goals are achieved in a number of ways, including monitoring the succession of the Board, reviewing its performance and identifying and nominating suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies.
Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors profiles on pages 94 to 95.
The Nomination Committee will usually meet twice a year and will also meet when appropriate.
The Committee met formally on two occasions during FY18.
A number of informal discussions also took place.
All of the Nomination Committee members are Non-Executive Directors and with the exception of the Chairman, are considered to be independent.
See page 105 regarding Simon Bentleys independence.
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE INCLUDE: Reviewing the leadership needs of the Group, looking at both Executives and Non-Executives: Reviewing the composition, structure and size of the Board, and making recommendations to the Board of adjustments that are deemed necessary having regard to diversity, skills, knowledge and experience: Reviewing the time required to be spent by Non-Executive Directors: Identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: Giving consideration to succession planning for Directors, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and expertise therefore needed on the Board: Formally documenting the appointment of Directors: and Identifying potential candidates for senior posts, and making recommendations to the Board as and when necessary.
The Nomination Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and the Chief Executive who are not present at meetings when the matter is discussed.
Succession plans are reviewed by the Nomination Committee at least once a year.
Board nominations The Committee follows a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Committee has considered and recommended the re-appointment of all directors, following consideration of their effectiveness and commitment.
The Committee led the process for recruiting and recommending the appointment of Jon Kempster as Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee used Taurus London to identify Jon as a suitable candidate for the role.
Taurus London is a division of Liberum Capital Limited, who are also the Companys brokers.
The Committee also recommended the appointment of David Daly.
David was known to the Group through his former role as Sales Director with Nike, one of the Companys key suppliers.
However, he had had no direct relationship with the Group since 2011 and retired from Nike in 2015.
He was interviewed by the Chairman and Claire Jenkins, Non-Executive Director, neither of whom had any prior relationship with David.
The Committee therefore considered that he was independent and that his experience of brands and retail would be an asset to the Board.
Composition of the Board The Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and has concluded that it would benefit from the addition of a non-executive with international exposure, and experience of luxury brands to assist its objective of elevation.
The Company is actively seeking applications from female candidates to fulfil this role and is currently interviewing a number of candidates.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 113 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued Diversity and inclusion The Groups policy on diversity was considered by the Committee in FY18 and is currently being revised in line with best practice.
Following the resignation of Claire Jenkins, during FY18 the Company has no female directors on the Board.
The committee has taken steps to address this and during the period a number of female candidates have been interviewed for the Non-Executive Director roles.
Our senior leadership team is currently comprised of approx.
Three of our senior executive positions, Head of Global Operations, Head of HR and UK Group Financial Controller are held by females, and approx 50% of our overall workforce is female.
Further details on diversity and inclusion are set out in in the Corporate Social Responsibility Section on page 78. Review of Terms of Reference The committee has reviewed its terms of reference in FY18 and concluded that no further amendments need to be made.
Dr Keith Hellawell QPM Chairman of the Nomination Committee 18 July 2018 114
