Directors Report Corporate Governance Leadership BOARD OF DIRECTORS Richard Gillingwater CBE Alistair Phillips-Davies Chairman Chief Executive Richard has extensive and diverse leadership experience, having held the position Alistair has been with SSE since 1997, and possesses a detailed knowledge of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and non-Executive Director across of the operations of each business area having held a number of senior roles a number of private and public sector organisations, including Janus Henderson, throughout the Company.
Prior to joining the Board in 2002 as Energy Supply the Shareholder Executive and CDC Group plc.
Through these roles he brings Director, Alistair was Director of Corporate Finance and Business Development.
expert knowledge of governance, including a sound understanding of the role In 2010, he became Generation and Supply Director, before Deputy Chief of the Board.
Through a career in the City which spanned more than 20 years, Executive in 2012, then Chief Executive in 2013.
Alistairs career progression involving senior roles in investment banking and corporate finance, he also has supported the development of sound leadership skills and a detailed has a depth of knowledge surrounding financial matters, and of the trends and understanding of the energy markets in Great Britain and Ireland, including factors which impact upon the external environment in which SSE operates.
the implications of EU membership and the increasingly global context in which This experience provides valuable insight in respect of strategic development they operate.
Through his role, Alistair has initiated significant focus on people and the long-term direction of the Company.
Richard is committed to engaging development and efficient operations in order to develop SSEs capabilities for with the business to observe how agreed strategy is delivered and to understand future growth.
Alistair is a Chartered Accountant and prior to 1997 worked for employee views, the feedback from which is instrumental in Board decisionHSBC and National Westminster Bank.
Richard has a law degree and an MBA.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Executive Director since January 2002 and Chief Executive from July 2013.
Key current appointments Appointed Deputy Chairman in January 2015 and has been Chairman since Vice President of Eurelectric.
Member of Scottish Energy Advisory Board.
Key current appointments Member of the Accenture Global Energy Board.
Chairman of Henderson Group plc.
Senior Independent Director of Helical Bar plc stepping down on 12 July 2018.
Senior Independent Director of Whitbread plc with effect from 27 June 2018.
Crawford Gillies Dame Sue Bruce DBE Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Crawford has substantial international and cross-sector business experience Sues extensive career in the public sector enhances the diversity of the Board: which has been gained through a career of over 30 years.
Through roles in both she held a variety of roles in local government in a career which spanned almost the private and public sector, including the areas of management consultancy, 40 years, including the position of Chief Executive at East Dumbartonshire Council, finance, risk, and trade and industry, he brings strong commercial and governance Aberdeen City Council, and latterly the City of Edinburgh Council.
Her strategic knowledge to the Board.
This experience provides the Board and SSEs businesses and operational experience of leading organisations, with large numbers of with the benefit of extensive external insight and a breadth of outlook.
Having employees, significant assets, construction projects and an important place in served on the Board and Board Committees in a number of organisations, the community they serve, make her an excellent source of knowledge on these including in the position of Chair, Crawford has the oversight and understanding matters for the Board.
Sue has also held a number of Board and Board Committee required of the Senior Independent Director and supports the Board and engages positions in organisations across the arts, education and charitable sectors.
with SSEs stakeholders as required.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since September 2013.
Key current appointments Key current appointments Convenor of Court of the University of Strathclyde.
Senior Independent Director of Barclays plc.
Trustee of the Princes Foundation.
Chairman of The Edrington Group Ltd.
Chair of the Royal Scottish National Orchestra.
Court Member of The Merchant Company of Edinburgh.
Electoral Commissioner, The Electoral Commission.
Governor of Erskine Stewart Melville School Committee membership as at 31 March 2018 Chair of Nominations Committee for National Trust Scotland.
Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Committee Chair Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee 90 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Gregor Alexander Martin Pibworth Finance Director Wholesale Director Gregor is a Chartered Accountant.
He joined SSE in 1990 and since this time has Martin joined SSE in 1998 as an energy trader and undertook a series of worked in various finance roles within the Company, including Treasury and Tax, commercial roles in the Company, becoming Managing Director, Energy Portfolio prior to joining the Board as Finance Director in 2002.
During his career Gregor Management, and a member of SSEs then Management Board, in 2012.
In 2014, has been instrumental in a number of the major transactions and investments he was appointed Managing Director, Wholesale, and a member of SSEs Group which define the Group.
His extensive and long-standing knowledge of financial Executive Committee, taking on responsibility for SSEs electricity generation markets and experience of shareholder views, has supported the development of portfolio and associated capital investment programme.
During this time, Martin SSEs financial strategy and purpose to create value for shareholders and society, has overseen the development of SSEs diverse and flexible generation portfolio including through debt financing with the issuance of SSEs Green Bond, and the including its growing renewable fleet.
In 2017, he was appointed to the Board as commitment to Fair Tax and the Living Wage.
The Board also benefit from Gregors Wholesale Director, where he also has responsibility for the supply of energy and regulatory insight through his role as Chair of the Scottish and Southern Energy related services to industrial and commercial customers and SSEs businesses in Power Distribution Board and of Scotia Gas Networks: and his experience of Ireland.
Martin brings significant knowledge of energy markets and experience of operating within an evolving energy sector, including an understanding of the commercial, technical and operational matters to the Board, and his innovative risks and opportunities which this can present, is highly valued.
Prior to 1990 approach to strategy, in seeking opportunities to create future value, is also Gregor worked for Arthur Andersen.
Prior to 1998 Martin worked for Eastern Power and Energy Trading, and Total Gas Marketing.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Finance Director since October 2002.
Key current appointments Key current appointments Chairman of Scotia Gas Networks Ltd. N A Non-Executive Director of Stagecoach Group plc.
Peter Lynas Helen Mahy CBE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Peter has over 30 years business experience spanning all areas of finance.
As a Helens depth of knowledge in relation to the energy sector brings a valuable Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants and through his external perspective to the Board.
Through her previous role of Company current role as Finance Director BAE Systems plc he brings recent and relevant Secretary and General Counsel at National Grid plc, she has a comprehensive financial experience to the Board.
Peter was appointed BAEs Group Financial understanding of the legal, compliance, governance and risk considerations Director in 2011, prior to which he served as Director, Financial Control, Reporting relevant to SSE, and of the regulatory environment in which its businesses operate.
and Treasury for a number of years.
His early career involved roles within GEC She has significant public company board experience in a number of sectors in Marconi, where in 1998 he was appointed Finance Director of Marconi Electronic the UK and abroad, and brings a detailed knowledge of, and interest in, the areas Systems prior to the completion of the British Aerospace Marconi merger.
He also of inclusion and diversity.
Helen qualified as a Barrister and was an Associate of the has been Chairman of the trustee Board of a major pension scheme.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since July 2014.
Key current appointments Key current appointments Group Finance Director of BAE Systems plc.
Chairman of The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited.
Member of the BAE Systems Inc Board in the US.
Non-Executive Director of Bonheur ASA.
Chairman of MedicX Fund Limited.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 91 Directors Report Corporate Governance Leadership BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Jeremy Beeton CB Katie Bickerstaffe Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jeremy is a fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers, and with over 40 years Katie has substantive and diverse retail and brand experience gained through a experience of international project management, engineering and construction, variety of roles in different customer-facing retailers and fast changing markets.
brings extensive knowledge to the Board surrounding the planning and execution Her strong customer focus and understanding of customers needs is a highly of large scale capital projects.
This extends to considerations in respect of project valuable attribute to the Board.
Through her role as Chief Executive, UK and Ireland governance, including safety, cost management, risk and control.
He has worked Dixons Carphone plc, and as an Executive Director on their Group Board, Katie with a wide range of organisations globally, including governments, and both has a strong understanding of commercial leadership and significant strategic private and public companies, and having served on various Boards has sound experience, which combined with her knowledge of HR, marketing and business, directorate experience.
provides the Board with relevant perspective.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Jeremy joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in July 2011 and will step Katie joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in July 2011 and stepped down down from the role following conclusion of the AGM on 19 July 2018. from the role on 30 April 2018.
Key current appointments Key current appointments Chairman of WYG plc.
Chief Executive, UK and Ireland Dixons Carphone plc.
Non-Executive Director of John Laing Group plc.
Non-Executive Director of OPG Power Ventures plc.
Member of Advisory Board of PwC.
Member of Court of the University of Strathclyde.
Board meeting attendance 2017 18 Member Attended Members Position since scheduled Richard Gillingwater Chairman 2007 7 7 Gregor Alexander Finance Director 2002 7 7 1 Jeremy Beeton Non-Executive Director 2011 6 7 2 Katie Bickerstaffe Non-Executive Director 2011 7 7 Sue Bruce Non-Executive Director 2013 7 7 Tony Cocker Non-Executive Director Crawford Gillies Senior Independent Director 2015 7 7 Tony possesses extensive knowledge of the sector gained through a 20 year career 3 Peter Lynas Non-Executive Director 2014 6 7 with E. ON.
He brings wide-ranging experience to the Board, including insight into technical and operational matters, and a comprehensive understanding of Helen Mahy Non-Executive Director 2016 7 7 commodity markets, energy trading and risk.
Latterly, as CEO and Chairman of E. ON UK plc, which comprised E. ONs main businesses in the UK, Tony oversaw Alistair Phillips-Davies Chief Executive 2002 7 7 the supply of energy to household customers, businesses and communities.
4 This long-standing industry experience in combination with his current external Martin Pibworth Wholesale Director 2017 4 4 appointments, enhances the Boards knowledge of trends relevant to SSEs operations and of utilities regulation.
Tony has experience in strategic planning 1 Jeremy Beeton was unable to attend the Board meeting in March 2018 due to illness.
and development through early consultancy roles and has an MBA from IMD, 2 Katie Bickerstaffe stepped down from the Board on 30 April 2018.
3 Peter Lynas was unable to attend the Board meeting in November 2017 due to a prior commitment.
Date of appointment 4 Martin Pibworth joined the Board in September 2017.
Key current appointments Chairman of Affinity Water Ltd. Chairman of Infinis Energy Management Ltd. Deputy Chairman and Governor of Warwick Independent Schools Foundation.
Committee membership as at 31 March 2018 Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Committee Chair Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee 92 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 BOARD COMPOSITION AND ROLES As at 31 March 2018, SSEs Board comprised for a fixed term of three years subject to Further information on the work of the the Chairman, six non-Executive Directors annual re-election by shareholders.
This Nomination Committee can be found and three ExecutiveDirectors.
term can be renewed by mutual agreement within its report on pages 105 to 108. and the current letters of appointment are Individual details of career background, available for inspection on sse.
To ensure that the Board operates efficiently relevant skills, Committee membership, and effectively, each Director has certain current tenure, and external appointments The composition of the Board is subject to responsibilities in line with their role.
These can be found in the respective Director continual review and appointments result are explained further below, with specific biographies on pages 90 to 92. from a combination of comprehensive examples of how they are discharged in practice succession planning, and formal and rigorous provided throughout the Directors Report.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director searches, which are responsibilities delegated and non-Executive Directors are appointed to the Nomination Committee.
chairman leadership, effective operation and governance of the Board: application of independent and objective judgement: setting agendas that support efficient and sound decision-making, and which allow for constructive discussion, challenge anddebate: ensuring effective relationships exist between the non-Executive and Executive Directors: ensuring that the views of all stakeholders are understood and considered appropriately in Board discussions: overseeing the annual performance evaluation and identifying any action required: and leading initiatives to assess the culture of the Company and ensure that the Board leads by example.
1 Senior Independent Director providing a sounding board for the Chairman: leading the Chairmans performance evaluation: serving as an intermediary to other Directors when necessary: and being available to shareholders and other stakeholders if they have any concerns which are unable to be resolved through normal channels, or if contact through these channels is deemed inappropriate.
Non-Executive Directors scrutinising, measuring and reviewing the performance of management: constructively challenging and assisting in the development of strategy: providing independent insight and support based on relevant experience: reviewing Group financial information, ensuring systems of internal control and risk management are appropriate and effective: reviewing the succession plans for the Board and key members of senior management: engaging with internal and external stakeholders and feeding back insights as to their views, including in relation to employees and the culture of the Company: and serving on various Committees of the Board.
Chief Executive proposing and delivering strategy as agreed by the Board: facilitating an effective link between the business and the Board in support of effective communication: leading the Group Executive Committee, which oversees operational and financial performance and any issues facing the Group: leading and supporting each of SSEs businesses and the functions of: HR: Strategy and Development: and Corporate Affairs and Sustainability: and representing SSE externally to stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, government and regulators, energy customers, NGOs and civil society, and suppliers and contractors.
Finance Director deputising for the Chief Executive: leading the finance management teams: overseeing and reporting on SSEs regulated business activities, and leading on agreed M&A transactions: leading and supporting the functions of: Procurement and Logistics: Risk and Assurance: Investor Relations and Company Secretarial: Corporate Business Services: and IT: overseeing SSEs relationships with the investment community: and representing SSE externally to stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, government and regulators, energy customers, NGOs and civil society, and suppliers and contractors.
Wholesale Director supporting the work of the Chief Executive and Finance Director: leading the Wholesale businesses comprising energy portfolio management, electricity generation, gas production, gas storage and energy supply and related services for industrial and commercial customers: responsibility for SSEs businesses in Ireland: and representing SSE externally to stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, government and regulators, energy customers, NGOs and civil society, and suppliers and contractors.
Company Secretary compliance with Board procedures and providing support to the Chairman: ensuring the Board has high quality information, adequate time and appropriate resources in order to function effectively and efficiently: advising and keeping the Board updated on corporate governance developments: considering Board effectiveness in conjunction with the Chairman: facilitating the Directors induction programmes and assisting with professional development: and providing advice, services and support to all Directors as and when required.
1 The Board appoints one of the non-Executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director, who in addition to the responsibilities of non-Executive Director has specific roles as outlinedabove.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 93 Directors Report Corporate Governance Leadership LEADERSHIP OF THE COMPANY Board of Directors Nomination Audit Safety, Health and Remuneration Committee Committee Environment Advisory Committee Committee Pages 105 to 108 Pages 109 to 115 Pages 118 to 119 Pages 120 to 137 Group Executive Committee Wholesale Networks Retail Enterprise Wholesale Retail Group Capital Group Large Group Safety, Health Group Governance Ireland Management Management Management Management Risk Risk Allocation Capital Projects and Environment Culture and Controls Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 The Networks Management Committee has dual reporting lines, reporting to the Group Executive Committee and Scottish and Southern Energy Power Distribution Board, which has oversight of the Networks business.
to develop a deeper understanding of the The four sub-Committees of the Board The Board Companys operations or to request information provide detailed focus to different areas The Boards role is to ensure the long term about specific areas.
The development of these of the Boards work, with their specific success of SSE and this is achieved through relationships with management strengthen responsibilities and authority set out in their responsible and effective governance, and by both the role of the non-Executive Directors Terms of Reference.
The nature of the support taking decisions that create value for both and their ability to constructively challenge, they provide is broad ranging, and may shareholders and society.
At Board level, offer guidance and provide counsel on strategic involve a recommendation being made to this includes agreeing a sustainable strategy decision making.
the Board, or if within their level of delegated which is set within the context of the external authority, a final decision being taken on operating environment, and creating and The integrity of the Board is well recognised behalf of the Board.
overseeing a framework to support its delivery.
and respected, and to ensure that this is The leadership of the Company in this way is maintained, and that the effectiveness of Committee membership is determined by supported by SSEs Articles of Association, the the Board continues to develop, separate the Board, based on the recommendation of Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, meetings between the Chairman and the the Nomination Committee, in consultation SSEs Corporate Governance Framework and non-Executive Directors, individually and with the relevant Committee Chairman.
the statutory duties of a Director.
Both SSEs collectively, without the Executive Directors Prior to making a recommendation, the Articles of Association and the Schedule of present take place throughout the year.
These Nomination Committee will consider the Matters Reserved for the Board can be found meetings provide an additional opportunity subject matter of the Committees work on SSEs website, sse.
to discuss matters relevant to the operation so that any refreshment of membership of the Board and the Company.
Decisions The operations of the Board are underpinned will often assess technical skills, knowledge by the collective experience of the Directors SSEs Corporate and experience whilst appreciating the and the diverse skills which they possess.
These Governance Framework benefits associated with diversity.
ensure that leadership and decision-making is The Board is supported in its role by SSEs focused and balanced, and is approached with Corporate Governance Framework, which The Board regularly reviews the remit, independent thought and judgement.
With the is set out above and comprises the Board, authority, composition and Terms of relationship between the Directors being one the Group Executive Committee and their Reference of each Committee, which are of trust and mutual respect, open and frank respective sub-Committees.
The Corporate available on the SSE website, sse.
The conversations ensure that even the most Governance Framework is carefully designed to Corporate Governance Framework is also challenging decisions are taken for the benefit ensure that through the delegation of authority, subject to periodic review to ensure that all of the Company with due consideration for strategy can be implemented effectively and is matters relevant to the Groups operations those that it may alsoaffect.
supported by transparent, well informed and continue to be identified and receive balanced decision-making.
This is achieved by adequate consideration.
As outlined on page 93, at the head of the ensuring that the correct competencies are Board and executive management, the present at each level within the Corporate Group Executive Committee Chairman and Chief Executive have separate Governance Framework and that there are The Group Executive Committee comprises roles and clearly defined responsibilities.
To appropriate mechanisms to allow knowledge the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, allow these responsibilities to be discharged and experience to be shared.
The close working the Wholesale Director and the Managing effectively, regular contact is maintained out relationship between the Board and senior Director, Networks all of whom are persons with the boardroom, which ensures that there management is central to achieving this.
The is an effective flow of information, and that oversight is further retained through an ongoing Company Secretary is Secretary to the Group any external or internal developments are dialogue, and upwards flow of information Executive Committee and the Managing communicated in a timelymanner.
within the Corporate Governance Framework, Director, Corporate Affairs is also invited to which includes regular reporting from key attend meetings.
Delivery of the agreed strategy The non-Executive Directors have direct individuals and the provision of minutes through the operational management of SSEs access at all times to the senior management from all Board Committees and Group businesses is the collective responsibility of the teams within SSE.
Contact with the business Executive Committee meetings.
is encouraged and provides the opportunity 94 94 SSE pl SSE plc c Annual R Annual Report 2018 eport 2018 BOARD MEETINGS AND ACTIVITY IN 2017 18 In line with the agreed meeting schedule, In support of effective Board practice, external developments: the location of the the Board held seven meetings in 2017 18 scheduled meetings follow an agreed format meeting: and relevant stakeholder feedback.
and details of individual Director attendance with agendas being developed from the This process ensures an element of flexibility, can be found on page 92.
Boards annual plan of business.
In the weeks which in turn enhances the effectiveness prior to any Board meeting, the Chairman, of the Board, as any new or impending In the months where no full Board meeting Chief Executive and Company Secretary matters can be dealt with as they arise.
was due to be held, an update call was discuss and carefully design the final meeting Details of some of the areas considered arranged: these calls covered key business agenda, to ensure that all matters receive by the Board in 2017 18 are set out below.
developments and provided the chance to adequate focus, and are being brought to discuss emerging issues and opportunities.
the Board at the appropriate time.
In doing Arrangements were also in place should so, consideration is given to: the reporting a Board decision or approval have been and financial calendar: the agreed strategic required outwith the above times.
priorities of the Group: the status of relevant Activities discussion Board considerations and focus areas Capital Investment, Business Performance and Strategic Developments Decision to demerge SSE Energy Services and combine with npower.
See Case Study on pages 100 to 101.
Reports on asset performance from each business area.
Safety performance, the impact of weather, generation plant output and availability, and the impact of market conditions on all asset classes.
Consideration of electricity network reliability for customers, and performance during storm events.
Culture and morale through Board visits to operational sites.
Investment proposals including: the Keadby 2 CCGT power station: Technology advances, energy markets, supply chain, security and the Fort Augustus to Fort William re-conductoring project.
of supply, SSEs energy mix, financial returns, the regulatory framework, and any internal or external communications.
Updates on the delivery of large capital projects and developments, Safety performance, delivery against plan, the impact of weather, including: the Caithness Moray transmission link: and the Beatrice sub-contractor performance and issues arising in the supply chain.
and Doggerbank offshore windfarm joint ventures.
Updates on a wide range of opportunities in the businesses that make The relative scale of the opportunities and implications of being up the Enterprise division.
successful in contract bids, including resourcing and potential required skill sets of employees and contractors.
Assessment of performance against agreed targets for Smart Metering Customer engagement and communication strategy.
and the associated risks in respect of delivery.
Customer focus and cost efficiency.
Implications of the next generation of technology for meters and challenges relating to infrastructure and customer demand.
Updates on IT strategy and infrastructure, and data management.
The potential benefits from data analytics.
Implications of and the plan to comply with new legislation the General Data Protection Regulation: GDPR.
Governance, Compliance and Risk Board oversight through feedback from sub-Committees including in respect of delegated matters, and those requiring Boardconsideration.
Audit Committee included see pages 109 to 115 : the review The findings of the reviews of Internal and External Audit of effectiveness of Internal Audit and the External Auditors: on resourcing and audit plans.
an update in respect of whistleblowing: and recommended Whistleblowing trends and what they might indicate about SSEs changes to the Audit Committee Terms of Reference and corporate culture.
Legislative developments impacting the Audit Committee Terms of Reference and Non-Audit Services Policy.
Nomination Committee included see pages 105 to 108 : The Nomination Committee horizon scanning work.
recommended appointments to the Board: conflicts of interest: Director independence: and recommended changes to subCommittee membership.
SHEAC included see pages 118 to 119 : recommended changes to The evolution of oversight and reporting in this area.
the Terms of Reference in respect of an enhanced remit surrounding health and climate change.
Review and approval of the Board Charter which comprises the External developments in best practice and legislation, for example 24 Group Policies: the Terms of Reference for each of the Boards GDPR and the SSE Data Protection Policy.
sub-Committees and other key documents including the Board Diversity Policy.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 95 Directors Report Corporate Governance Leadership BOARD MEETINGS AND ACTIVITY IN 2017 18 CONTINUED Activities discussion Board considerations and focus areas Governance, Compliance and Risk continued Approval of the Modern Slavery Statement for 2017 18.
Work carried out in the year to analyse and judge the areas of risk, together with steps taken to remove the risk of modern slavery within SSEs business activities.
Consideration of the outcomes of the annual Board evaluation See Annual Evaluation on pages 102 to 103. including progress against objectives for 2017 18 and agreement of actions for 2018 19.
Updates on recommendations from an internal audit review of the cyber security programme.
Approval of the Group Principal Risks.
The risk assessment undertaken through the Group Executive Committee and its sub-Committees.
See Risk Report on pages 28 to 32.
Finance Approval of the Group budget and monitoring of the financial Key assumptions, inputs and risks to the budget.
performance of the Company and of each of SSEs businesses.
Performance against the approved budget and explanations for variances including the impact of market conditions, plant performance and weather.
Consideration of SSEs funding position and credit rating.
Likely financing requirements, updates on discussions with the Credit Rating agencies, and approval for debt issuance in the year including SSEs first Green Bond.
Approval of the 2016 17 full year financial statements and the Annual Audit Committee feedback was considered and the Board judged: Report and the interim financial statements for the six months to that the Annual Report and Accounts provided a fair, balanced 30 September 2017. and understandable view agreeing Significant Financial Judgements and Exceptional Items: that it was appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting: and the appropriate time period for which the viability statement should be considered.
Financial performance and related communications were also assessed against market expectations.
Recommendation of the final dividend for 2016 17 and approval SSEs dividend policy, financial position and forecast financial of the interim dividend for 2017 18. performance.
People and Culture Assessment of SHE performance and culture, and approval The performance and trend in SSEs Total Recordable Injury Rate.
Details of serious occurrences or near misses and any action taken to reduce the risk of repeat incidents.
Feedback from Board member site visits.
Leadership and composition of the Board, including the approval The Nomination Committee horizon scanning work see page 106. ofrecommendations made by the Nomination Committee.
Shareholder views on Board composition.
Consideration of the results from the Great Place to Work survey which See Culture on pages 98 to 99. was carried out in summer 2017, and of the culture generally within SSE.
Stakeholders and Society Consideration of what is most likely to promote the success of the See Stakeholder and Shareholder Engagement on pages116 to 117.
Company for the benefit of its members as a whole, with regard to other stakeholders.
External and Sector Context Regulatory updates.
Regulatory performance in Networks and Ofgem published data, preparation for RIIO-T2, and the extension of the PPM price cap mechanism in the GB Energy Supply market.
SSE responses to Ofgem consultations.
General Election 2017, Brexit, political intervention and SVT price cap impact on customers and the role of SVT, the risk to the network ownership model, findings of the independent review into the cost of energy the Helm Review.
Commodity markets and carbon price.
Trends and developments in wholesale energy markets and the potential implications for SSEs short, medium and long term strategy.
96 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 relation to the Graduate Programme and upon current strategic priorities.
Breakout Board agenda in action training framework.
sessions facilitated by future leaders, provided Scheduled meetings of the Board adopt a further insight into areas of current focus number of signature practices and follow an Non-Executive Director meeting for the Networks business, which included agreed format.
These are exemplified below Prior to the Board dinner, the non-Executive transformation and customer service change for the January 2018 meeting.
Directors met without the Chairman and programmes.
The time spent focusing on Executive Directors present to consider one area of the business allows the Board Board agenda the performance of the Chairman.
This was to consider more strategically the needs and In order to facilitate broader employee conducted in consideration of feedback views of different stakeholders, particularly engagement at both senior management and which had been received previously from the customers, employees and the Regulator operational level, and to allow the Board to gain Executive Directors and formed part of the in a fast changing energy sector.
deeper insight into the operations and culture of annual Board evaluation process.
In addition SSEs different business areas, Board meetings to this meeting, the non-Executive Directors Board meeting take place at different SSE locations throughout and the Chairman met twice without the As with each full Board meeting, the the year.
In January 2018, this included the site Executive Directors present in the reporting agenda opened by reflecting upon safety in Perth, and details of the specific agenda for period.
As outlined in the findings of the performance, followed by Director feedback this meeting are set out below.
Board evaluation in 2016 17, the Directors on any site visits that had been conducted in recognise the benefits of informal time in the period see page 104.
Standing updates Employee engagement strengthening board relations and therefore included reports from the Chief Executive: In the day prior to the full Board meeting, this continues to be built into the annual plan Finance Director: Managing Directors of each a number of the Directors participated in an of business.
business: and key support functions, followed employee engagement session at the Perth by the items as agreed by the Chairman, Chief Training School.
This involved a site tour, Board working dinner Executive and Company Secretary through followed by roundtable sessions with a As part of the iterative strategy development the agenda setting process.
At the January selection of graduates, apprentices and and review process and in order to inform meeting, 16 individuals from across the Group technical staff trainees from across SSE.
In the dedicated Board strategy session which presented to the Board.
groups, the graduates, apprentices and trainees takes place annually, the Board engage in provided feedback on specific questions in deep dives of each of SSEs business areas Post meeting relation to: the trainee programmes, including during the year.
At the January Board dinner After the Board meeting, the Company the support provided: future aspirations: and this involved a review of the Networks Secretary provides further information as their views on what its like to work for SSE.
The MD, Networks and members requested by the Board, and prepares the The Directors in turn were invited to share their of the Networks leadership team joined the minutes and matters arising for review and own personal career experiences and provide Board to lead a session which focused on feedback by the Directors.
Any comments relevant insights of programmes run by other longer term strategy, business performance from the Board on the administrative or organisations to the Group.
The learnings from and short to medium term priorities.
An operational aspects of the meeting are the session were captured and will be used overview was also provided on political and used to improve the workings of the to inform actions and future workstreams in regulatory developments which could impact Board goingforward.
Members of the Board receive a site tour of the Perth Training School as part of the January 2018 meeting agenda.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 97 Directors Report Corporate Governance Leadership BOARD MEETINGS AND ACTIVITY IN 2017 18 CONTINUED Having reviewed the current external trends In order to support and understand the Strategy session and acknowledging the volatility and speed effectiveness of this approach in nurturing Value creation and sustainable growth are of change within the sector, the Board a healthy culture, a number of initiatives, underpinned by a firm commitment to the identified those factors which were of current educational workstreams, controls and Companys core purpose to responsibly strategic importance to the priorities and feedback mechanisms are in place.
These provide the energy and services that people operations of the Group.
The impact of these are depicted opposite and allow the Board and society need: and are evidenced through on existing Group-wide and business-level to understand the extent to which the SSE the delivery of the Companys financial plans was then assessed, prior to providing SET is embedded throughout the Group, objectives, including the remuneration support and feedback in respect of future and how employee beliefs and behaviours of shareholders investment through the plans and next steps.
Specific consideration are supported by these values.
The successful was also given to SSEs existing core achievement of the above is the focus of the competencies and expertise, and the ways in As outlined opposite, one of the ways in strategic agenda, which ensures that there is which these may need to develop to support which the Board furthers its understanding of appropriate oversight of the challenges facing further changes in the external environment.
the existing culture is through engagement SSEs businesses and an understanding of the All outcomes from the session would be with employees, and in November 2017 the changes which must be managed in order factored in to considerations at Board and Board participated in a dedicated culture to secure opportunities for future growth.
executive level going forward and progress session at SSEs site in Reading.
Centred on The annual Board strategy session forms an on agreed actions tracked.
the results of the Great Place to Work survey important part of this agenda, which for this see page 82, the Board along with a cross reporting period, spanned two days in July 2017.
An overview of SSEs agreed strategy is set section of employees from each business out on pages 14 to 15 of the Strategic Report.
area, considered both the most positive and As pre-reading for the 2017 session, the Board most challenging areas as revealed by was provided with: a comprehensive analysis Culture employee survey scores and discussed of the external operating environment: details The Board recognise that the creation of whether the outcomes were in line with of relevant macro and sectoral developments: value for both shareholders and society expectations.
The direct involvement of and an overview of ongoing strategy-related in a responsible, efficient and sustainable employee representatives allowed the Board activity at Group level.
This information was way, requires a healthy business culture.
to understand first-hand the key issues in prepared by the Group Strategy team, in A key requirement for which is common relation to culture, and provided both the consultation with key senior managers across understanding of agreed values, which in Board and employees with the opportunity the Company, and formed the backdrop turn have the ability to drive and underpin to ask questions and feedback relevant for constructive discussion surrounding the a framework to provide guidance and support insights.
The findings from the session would implications for previously agreed priorities to employees.
Explicit Board focus on culture be used to inform future workstreams and and current progress.
The two-day event itself therefore continued in 2017 18. areas of focus for the Board going forward, was structured across five focused sessions, and would be used by Group HR to ensure which were attended by the Managing At the heart of SSEs culture is a closely that local business-level plans were consistent Directors, for Wholesale, Networks, Retail and held set of values the SSE SET: these values with the feedback received, with any new Enterprise, and a number of subject matter embody the principles by which the Board perspectives being integrated as appropriate.
Each of SSEs businesses presented operates, and having been first established the key strategic themes for their area, along over ten years ago, were reviewed again with an overview of the issues which they during the reporting year to ensure that currently faced and a summary of priorities for they remain relevant to the Group and growth.
These presentations built on insights the operating environment.
gained previously through business area deep dives conducted during the period.
External These values underpin the ethical, respectful, guests from a variety of backgrounds were and inclusive ways of working which are also invited to attend and provide perspectives explicit and implicit within day to day activities on the principal economic, environmental, across SSE, and further guide decision-making social, and political issues likely to affect the and the interactions with all stakeholders.
energy sector and UK listed companies in This values-based approach is set out in the medium to long term.
SSEs guide to ethical business conduct for employees, Doing the right thing, which outlines principles and standards to help employees in a wide range of situations, including: how to identify and deal with suspected wrongdoing, fraud or malpractice in the workplace: how to ensure that the highest standards of safety are maintained: and how to apply good ethics and sound judgement when taking decisions.
98 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Reinforcing a healthy business culture SSE adopts a values-based approach to culture which is defined by the SSE SET as agreed by the Board.
Safety Service Efficiency Sustainability Excellence Teamwork If its not safe, We are a company We focus on We do things We continually We work together, we dont do it.
responsibly to add improve the respect each other long term value.
Cultural initiatives embed these values and support creation of a healthy business culture.
These initiatives are supported through the Corporate Governance Framework.
Group Governance Culture Ethics and Compliance and Controls Committee.
As a sub-Committee of the Group Executive Committee, this forum has The remit of this review group is to apply rigour to SSEs culture-based oversight responsibility for the management and communication of communications and training, ensuring that all such activity aligns with the Group-wide cultural initiatives.
Core activities include the monitoring of: SSEs Doing the Right Thing code of ethical business conduct and is supportive of core values: policy environment: beliefs and attitudes: and the assessment of business objectives.
whether together they constitute a pervasive context to drive behaviours in support of SSEs culture.
Educational workstreams enhance employee understanding and guide behaviours.
SSE has an overarching set of 24 Each employee is provided with a Understanding of the key themes Senior commitment to the core values Group Policies which are approved copy of the guide to ethical business contained within the Doing the Right and ethical business principles sets the by the Board.
These cover key areas conduct Doing the Right Thing, Thing is enhanced through a tone for the creation of a responsible of corporate conduct or responsibility, which brings together a summary of programme of targeted training and sustainable culture.
This is and guide employees by setting out SSEs core principles and standards to interventions including: Group-wide demonstrated through dedicated what the responsible and ethical help guide behaviour in a way which e-learning modules: targeted leadership and employee approach to a subject would be.
is consistent with SSEs values.
communications: and interactive events and personal written internal content such as communications which are mini-documentaries and case studies.
cascaded through Group channels and supported by local business teams.
Controls allow culture to be assessed and provide employee support.
Employees can report incidents of Employee engagement is measured Dedicated culture events hosted by A set of cultural KPIs to allow trends wrongdoing through both internal through the Great Place to Work the Board and regular Boardand changes in the overarching and external mechanisms, including survey, which is run every two years business engagement allow the culture to be monitored is currently as independent Speak Up phone with a pulse survey in alternate Directors to observe and listen to in development.
The appropriate line and email service.
Questions allow employees employee opinion.
These also metrics are being carefully designed, SSE introduced an aftercare to share their views on key topics, provide the opportunity for Directors to ensure alignment with the core programme to ensure appropriate which provides valuable insight in to share their own experiences and values, and ethical business employee support.
The Audit respect of sentiment and culture.
practices, which are embedded Committee monitor and review the overview of key findings is provided through the educational arrangements, incidents and trends to the Board for consideration by workstreams and controls.
arising from whistleblowing and Group HR.
provide feedback to the Board.
Feedback to the Board enhances understanding of culture.
As outlined above, established reporting mechanisms within the Corporate Governance Framework and direct engagement are key to Board oversight of cultural matters.
All feedback received furthers the Boards understanding of how SSEs established values, standards and procedures support a responsible approach to business and further the delivery of strategic objectives, with findings being used to inform future work or areas of focus.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 99 Directors Report Corporate Governance Leadership CASE STUDY: DECISION TO DEMERGE SSE ENERGY SERVICES Monitoring sector change and evaluation of future options Prior to Through the Boards ongoing review of the strategic positioning of SSE, and in line with the commitment to November embrace and reflect change fully in all operational, investment and strategic decisions, the Board concluded that a separation of SSEs household energy and services business in Great Britain now named SSE Energy Services 2017 was the right response to the current trends in GB energy supply, and the decision necessary to secure the right outcomes for customers and shareholders.
Further details of the strategic context can be found throughout the Strategic Report.
As options were assessed and progressed, regular meetings of the Group Disclosure Committee who oversee the framework for control and release of Inside Information considered the status of potential developments and the ongoing ability to maintain confidentiality.
Responding to sector change merger talks and Board delegated authority 6 November At their evening meeting, the Board received presentations from senior management, SSEs legal adviser, Freshfields, 2017 and SSEs broker and financial adviser, Credit Suisse, covering: a summary of ongoing negotiations with innogy: due diligence: key terms of the proposed transaction, including structure and risks: timetable and next steps: and the stakeholder and investor communication plan.
In line with the statutory duty to act in the best interests of the Company, appropriate focus and time was given to understanding the potential impact on SSEs relevant stakeholder groups.
An overview of some of the outcomes which were assessed by the Board are set out opposite.
After careful consideration of the aforementioned, and following review of drafts of the necessary transaction documents, the Board delegated authority to two Executive Directors to conclude negotiations and enter into the transaction on behalf of the Company.
Responding to external commentary 7 November In response to increasing media and analyst commentary, both SSE and innogy released an announcement to the 2017 market on 7 November 2017.
SSEs statement was made following a meeting of the Group Disclosure Committee, which was convened at the same time as a Board meeting was in session.
The Finance Director chaired the meeting, and with input from the external advisers agreed that there was reason to doubt that the confidentiality surrounding ongoing negotiations had been maintained.
The announcement was released as soon as possible and confirmed that the Board had been in discussions with innogy about the potential creation of a new independent energy supply company.
The uncertainty and concern of both customers and employees as a result of the above was acknowledged and it was advised that any outcome would be disclosed once discussions had concluded.
Proposed transaction confirmed 8 November The Board made a further announcement at 7am on 8 November 2017, outlining the proposed demerger of SSE 2017 Energy Services and combination with the household and business energy supply and services business in Great Britain, of innogys subsidiary npower.
The proposed transaction would form a new independent UK incorporated company the independent company, whose shares would be admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
External approvals and next steps Pre-demerger At the time of the announcement, SSE Energy Services and npower collectively provided energy and related services to around 11.5 million customer accounts throughout Great Britain.
Completion of the proposed transaction remains subject to necessary shareholder and regulatory approvals.
The demerger of SSE Energy Services is to be implemented by declaring a dividend in specie to SSE shareholders, whereby each shareholder will receive one share in the independent company for every existing SSE plc share they hold at the relevant record date.
Shareholder approval will be sought at a General Meeting on 19 July 2018.
Should SSE not obtain the approval of its shareholders in respect of the transaction, a break fee of 60m could be payable by SSE to innogy.
A shareholder circular setting out full details of the transaction, along with the resolutions for shareholder consideration, will be issued, following approval by the Board.
As it is intended to seek admission of the shares in the independent company to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority with a premium listing, and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, a Prospectus is required.
This will be published in accordance with the Prospectus Rules of the FCA, and it is anticipated this will be shortly prior to admission, which is expected in the last quarter of 2018 or the first quarter of2019.
The Board continue to receive regular updates on progress and developments.
In a commitment to keep employees fully informed as to whats happening, when and why, a dedicated internal website containing key information and support will be continually updated.
Until the new independent company is formed, both SSE Energy Services and npower will continue to operate and compete as suppliers of household energy and related services.
During this time, the focus of the Board and executive team in respect of SSEs retail business will remain previously agreed strategic priorities, including: equipping the core business for the future: stabilising and strengthening market share: building capacity to grow in a way that allows smarter engagement and value creation for customers: and responding to changing customer expectations.
100 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 what is being combined to form why create Who will own the the independent company?
SSE npower Combining resources of two established suppliers GB Household Focus and agility of supply an independent supplier 34.4% Energy related Capable of realising 65.6% services significant synergies BusinessFocus on the changing needs to-business of energy customers approximately POST-DEMERGER SSE INDEPENDENT RETAIL COMPANY Governance The Board of SSE will continue to lead the Company for the It is intended that the composition of the Board will comply longer term, and will be able to provide enhanced focus to with the provisions of the Code, with the Chairman, Chief the remaining business areas of Wholesale, Networks and Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer being appointed Enterprise.
Balance, efficiency and disciplined investment jointly by SSE and innogy.
The appointment of the other will remain key strategic aims, along with a renewed emphasis Directors will follow and be subject to re-appointment by on SSEs core competencies to identify and secure growth the shareholders of the independent company at the first opportunities which are consistent with the changing AGM.
The formation of a dedicated Board, will allow the energylandscape.
independent companys decision-making to be more closely aligned with strategy, and facilitate the delivery of greater benefits to all stakeholders going forward.
Customer Customers will continue to be at the heart of SSEs decisionA new market model will be created following combination making and operations.
The re-focused portfolio will increase of the resources and experience of SSE and npower with SSEs agility and responsiveness, and support customers in the focus and agility of an independent supplier.
Significant the transition to a lower carbon future.
This will be delivered synergies are anticipated from operational cost efficiencies through continued visibility and understanding of the whole and capital expenditure savings, which are expected to enable energy value chain and the changing needs of society.
the independent company to be competitive in its markets.
Employees The number of employees in the post-demerger SSE will Around 8,800 employees will transfer from SSE, and combine be around 12,000.
Employees remaining will have the with those individuals transferring from npower, to form the opportunity to be part of a business which is focused on workforce for the independent company.
The opportunity assets, infrastructure and activities which support the to be part of a new independent energy supplier is viewed as transition to a lower carbon future and a business which consistent with the longer term interests of, and is therefore is more agile and responsive with the possibility to export for the overall benefit of, employees.
To the extent that competencies to relevant adjacent markets.
anticipated synergies result in any changes for employees, the Board note that any decisions will be made following appropriate consultation with employee representative bodies.
Strategic SSE will maintain a balanced range of related businesses, SSE and npower bring distinct, complementary strengths: creating value through developing, owning and operating SSE has a broad range of energy-related services in the home, energy and related infrastructure and services in a sustainable including broadband, fixed-line telephone, boiler cover way that supports the transition to a lower carbon future.
npower brings the expertise through It will continue to supply energy and provide energy and innovation in areas such as electric vehicle charging, in-home infrastructure services to business customers throughout and in-business energy management devices and services.
the UK and Ireland, and to household customers in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Financial The Board of SSE will remain committed to remunerating Underpinned by access to its own capital, the independent Dividend shareholders investment through the payment of dividends.
company will be able to respond more effectively to the It will continue to target an annual increase of at least RPI rapidly evolving competitive landscape as well as meeting inflation for 2018 19.
Thereafter, SSEs dividend and dividend the changing expectations of customers, regulators and other policy will reflect the quality and nature of its assets and stakeholders.
In line with its independent status, any dividend operations, the earnings derived from them and the longerpolicy will be determined by its Board.
Further information on SSEs dividend plans which were agreed by the Board in May 2018, can be found on page 44.
