106 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE RISK COMMITTEE Mark Sutton took over from Craig Gentle as Chief Risk Officer on 1January 2018 and has overseen a continuation of the development of the Groups Risk Management framework and Risk and Compliance function.
Through his regular Chief Risk Officers Report and specific reporting from the Risk and Compliance function, the Committee is provided with comprehensive reporting on key risk developments and activity across the Group.
The relevance and quality of the reporting during the year has supported the Committee in: reviewing and interrogating the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group in the context of the Groups strategy: considering risk appetite: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and its implementation across the Group: IAIN CORNISH, Chair of the Risk Committee assessing the adequacy of managements responses to risk management actions: Key objective of the Committee monitoring ongoing interactions with the Groups regulators and The Committees primary role is to provide guidance and the implementation of new regulations, including GDPR, MiFID II, advice to the Board and where appropriate other boards PRIIPs and IDD: and committees in the Group in relation to the Groups examining with members of senior management their business risk appetite, attitude to risk and to provide oversight of areas management of the associated risks: and its risk management framework.
overseeing and challenging the activities underpinning the ORSA and risk and capital assessments of Group companies, together Role of the Committee in summary with other documents aligned with those processes.
To foster a culture of effective risk identification In addition, focused reports from senior executives on specific andmanagement throughout the Group.
topics impacting the Group support the Committees assessment To provide leadership, direction and oversight of of its principal risks.
Attendance by senior management during theGroups management of risk.
the consideration of these reports provides the Committee with opportunities to explore the management of the associated risks and To review the principal and emerging risks affecting challenge the executives responsible.
theGroup and the ways in which the risks are controlled, managed and or mitigated.
During the year, further enhancements have been made to the To direct and oversee the Own Risk and Solvency reporting of key risks, in particular bringing first line commentary on Assessment ORSA process and the Groups approach risks alongside key risk indicators and comments conclusions of the to capital adequacy and capital management.
Our monitoring of risk priorities and emerging risks have also developed further, which will assist the Committee in ensuring To report any material areas of concern to the Board appropriate coverage is given to each of these risks at future meetings.
and the boards of the Groups subsidiary companies.
To ensure continuity, I have agreed that I will continue to chair the Committee during the process to appoint a new independent NonPriorities for 2019 executive Director.
When the new Director is appointed, it is intended Continue to oversee migration to Bluedoor.
that at an appropriate point in time, that Director will chair the Committee and I will step down as a member.
Data security and cyber threat resilience.
Strategic risks, including growth and technology.
IAIN CORNISH On behalf of the Risk Committee Assurance reporting and coverage.
26 February 2019 Responding to political and economic uncertainty, including any Brexit impacts.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 107 At each scheduled meeting the Committee receives a formal report Committee membership from the Chief Risk Officer that includes: Member Joined updates on material risks that have been prominent in the period since the previous meeting: IC Iain Cornish Chair 1 October 2011 interactions with Regulators during the period: SJ Simon Jeffreys 1 January 2014 updates on the impact and implementation of new regulations, political developments e. g. Brexit and significant changes in the BW Baroness Wheatcroft 2 April 2012 risk environment: updates on the operation, performance and planning of the Risk RY Roger Yates 1 January 2014 and Compliance function: key risk metrics including conduct risk management information : and The Committees terms of reference set out the Committees role summaries of thematic reviews carried out by the Groups first and and authority and can be found on the corporate website at second line assurance functions.
The Committee maintains a rolling forward agenda which ensures Operation and performance that the key responsibilities of the Committee are carried out across the year and that significant and emerging risks are considered at of the Committee appropriate times.
Key risk policies are reviewed throughout the year The Committee comprises the Chair of the Board and three and there is a standing item at each meeting to allow the Committee independent Non-executive Directors and membership has remained to recommend relevant policies to the Board for adoption.
The Committees effectiveness has been reviewed by the Board as part of its overall assessment of its The Chair of the Committee meets regularly with the Chief Risk effectiveness see pages 92 and 93 and it remains satisfied that Officer, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, individually and all members have appropriate financial, risk and or other relevant together to discuss key risk topics.
experience and as a whole the Committee has the experience and qualifications necessary to successfully perform its role.
Regular attendees at Committee meetings during the year included the Chair, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Managing Director Distribution and Chief Risk Officer.
Subject matter experts and other members of senior management are invited to attend and present on specific topics throughout the year.
co. uk 108 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE R ISK COMMITTEE C ON T I N U E D Committee activities during 2018 The Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year and a summary of some of the key topics considered is set out below: FEBRUARY APRIL JULY Client Money and Client Assets Defined benefit transfers Following Partner and adviser recruitment The CASS The Committee received upon discussions at the previous Committee received a presentation on a report from the Head of the meeting, the Committee endorsed the existing recruitment model and, CASS Oversight Operation function acceptance criteria for new defined having noted the main risks, evaluated addressing the key management of benefittransfer applications.
opportunities for reinforcing the acquisition risks associated with CASS and the processes and retaining key recruiters.
Vulnerable clients An update on the oversight of third-party administrators measures taken to safeguard vulnerable Discretionary Fund Management The compliance with the FCAs CASS rules.
clients provided the Committee with Risk and Compliance Director of Rowan Complaints handling The Committee anoverview of the initiatives being Dartington presented an assessment considered a deep dive review of the considered to further enhance the Groups of Rowan Dartingtons top risks and the Groups complaints handling processes existing approach.
Committee assessed progress made in which outlined the operation of those embedding enhanced first and second line Business Assurance The Committee processes and evaluated the impacts assurance processes.
considered the performance of the ofparticular patterns and trends Business Assurance function, which is Risk Appetite Statement The Committee thereon.
responsible for risk-based checking of reviewed and agreed to recommend an ORSA The Committee approved the advice suitability.
This included the risks updated Group Risk Appetite Statement proposed ORSA strategy for 2018. impacting the function in its day-to-day tothe Board.
engagement with the Partnership and Defined benefit transfers The ORSA 2018 The Committee considered planned future developments.
Committee received an update on the draft ORSA Summary Report, including business volumes and considered the Investment Risk The Committee underlying operational risk assessments businesses proposals for ensuring received an update on the activity of and stress tests carried out alongside future defined benefit transfer cases the Investment Risk Committee and the financial projections.
continued toremain within the Groups performance of the custodian and trustee risk appetite.
The Committee also examined the monitoring of fund The Partnership The Committee composition and performance.
received presentations from the Head of Field Risk and the Head of afield Diversified Assets FAIF The Committee office in relation to the principal risks considered a risk assessment carried out on associated with the Partnership and the fund and highlighted risks that required potential enhancements being piloted further investigation prior to its launch.
for Partner training and competency Cyber security The Committee received supervision.
an update on the maturity of the Groups cyber resilience and noted that emphasis in future planning was centred around increasing the awareness of employees andthe Partnership.
Anti-money laundering The Groups Money Laundering Reporting Officer presented her annual report to the Committee.
ORSA The Committee assessed the results of stress and scenario testing carried out as part of the ORSA process.
MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT IC SJ BW RY IC SJ BW RY IC SJ BW RY ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 109 SEPTEMBER NOVEMBER The Groups Investment Management Partner remuneration risks The Approach The Committee considered Committee reviewed the structure of the key risks relating to the Groups Partner remuneration and considered an investment management approach annual assessment of associated risks.
focusing on the evolution of the investment Brexit The Chief Risk Officer provided strategy and the potential impact of Brexit.
an update on managements assessment Diversified Assets FAIF The Committee of the potential impact of Brexit on the received an update on progress with the business and the Committee explored launch of the fund and the Committee the timeline for engaging with clients satisfied itself that the risks that had andPartners.
been highlighted at the April meeting had Capital Adequacy reviews The beenaddressed.
Committee reviewed the output of Client service The Committee received reviews undertaken on certain regulated a presentation on risks associated with subsidiaries and endorsed the basis of ensuring the Partnership was servicing all preparation of the reviews.
clients appropriately and discussed the ORSA The Committee approved the activity being undertaken by the Group to proposed stress and scenario testing and safeguard client service levels.
operational risk assessments for the 2018 Employee remuneration risks The ORSA cycle.
Committee considered and agreed an annual assessment of the Groups remuneration risks and discussed the strategic initiatives being adopted to help tackle the Groups gender pay gap.
2018 ORSA The Committee approved the revised ORSA Policy and considered the final draft of the 2018 ORSA document, before agreeing to recommend it to the Board for approval.
Capital Adequacy The Committee reviewed the summary output from the draft Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process carried out for St. JamessPlace Investment Administration Limited SJPIA and recommended it to the board of SJPIA forapproval.
MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT IC SJ BW RY IC SJ BW RY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 110 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE R ISK COMMITTEE C ON T I N U E D The Committee is also able to review and provide challenge on the ORSA implementation of risk mitigation in the business.
When certain risks One of the key areas of focus for the Committee continues to be have crystallised during the year the Committee has reviewed the theOwn Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA.
Although the ORSA circumstances, confirmed the causes and assessed the response of was born of a regulatory requirement, it has become embedded management.
None of the risks that have crystallised during the year within the Group and has proved to be a useful tool to support the have had a material adverse impact.
During the year, the Committee Board and its Committees in the consideration of specific risks.
continued to receive and review reports from a number of Executive The Committee remains responsible for setting the strategy for Committees and other functions in the Group including: the performance of a single, Group-wide, ORSA and has continued reports relating to relevant topics discussed at Group Risk involvement in this process throughout the year, with the timetable Executive and Finance Executive Committee meetings, where geared around engagement on key elements at each meeting.
It is executive oversight is given to the appropriateness and observance responsible for agreeing and proposing the ORSA Policy, and all other of the Groups Risk Appetite: key risk management policies, to the boards of Group companies, and for challenging the underlying bases and assumptions and reports produced by second line Compliance Assurance and first determining the extent of stress and scenario testing to be applied.
line Business Assurance functions in respect of thematic reviews Management presents the results of stress and scenario tests carried out into specific areas of the Groups business: and the assessments of operational risks and then works with reports from the Chief Risk Officer on the effectiveness of the the Committee to finalise the content of the ORSA report which is Groups risk management systems and the structure and operation recommended to the Board for approval.
of the Risk and Compliance function: and an annual report from the Groups Money Laundering Reporting Oversight of risk Officer on the anti-money laundering, bribery and fraud activities Oversight of the risk management framework is key to delivery of the taking place within the Group.
responsibilities of the Committee and further information on this can As noted above, since most of the activity within the Group is be found on pages 48 and 49.
The risk management framework and regulated, the Committee also receives regular updates on regulatory associated documents are subject to annual review.
During 2018 the developments and the Groups ongoing interactions with regulators, presentation of the Groups principal risks has continued to develop, which provides further context from which it can interrogate and although these risks remain largely unchanged.
The risks are challenge the performance of the Groups first and second line risk mapped to the Basel framework and a bottom-up risk assessment functions.
The Groups interaction is principally with the Prudential process, to provide assurance that the list provides comprehensive Regulation Authority, Financial Conduct Authority, Information coverage.
This list, and the set of indicators used by the Committee Commissioners Office, Central Bank of Ireland, Monetary Authority of to regularly monitor performance against risk appetite, have both Singapore, Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission and Office been regularly reviewed by the Committee during the year and will of the Commissioner of Insurance in Hong Kong.
Wider regulatory continue to develop during 2019. interactions also take place with firms in the financial services The Committee is supported in its oversight of the risk management marketplace, and collectively these updates assist the Committee framework by the Group Risk and Compliance function and teams inmonitoring the Groups ongoing compliance with regulation.
at Group and local levels.
The Committee spends a significant proportion of its time receiving updates from the Chief Risk Officer and senior members of the Risk and Compliance function, who have direct access to the Chair of the Risk Committee should the need arise.
The Committee also considers on a regular basis the risk and compliance plan and the adequacy of resources committed toitsdelivery.
