94 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Last year I provided an update on the progress made by the Committee in determining the likely impact of new reporting standards on our financial statements, and 2018 has seen the first of those standards come into force.
Whilst neither IFRS 9 Financial Instruments nor IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers has had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements we have focused on ensuring the presentational changes to the Notes to the financial statements are clear and concise.
IFRS 16 Leases will come into force for the next financial year and we have set out in Note 1 the expected impact on our financial statements.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts will not be adopted until 2021 and we will continue to assess the implications for the Group, although we expect the impact to be small.
Whilst our business is in many ways straightforward, we comply with a vast array of reporting requirements which have the potential SIMON JEFFREYS, Chair of the Audit Committee to make our Annual Report and Accounts a challenge to read.
The Committee has tasked itself and management to continue to focus Key objective of the Committee onsimplifying the messaging where possible, as well as responding to The Committees primary purpose is to provide oversight investor feedback on areas that could be improved.
In this years report of the financial reporting process, the internal and we have sought to improve our explanatory narrative and use other external audit processes and the Groups systems tools, including diagrams and schematics to explain some of the more ofinternal controls.
complex aspects of the business.
For an example of this, refer to Our Business Model on pages 14 and 14.
Role of the Committee in summary Key projects that the Committee has overseen during the year included the successful migrations to Bluedoor, where the Committee To be responsible for the accuracy and integrity ofthe continues to monitor the costs and the savings being realised as we Groups financial statements.
head towards the conclusion of the project.
Following the completion To oversee the appointment and monitor the of our first securitisation transaction we dedicated time outside our independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
formal meetings to understand the transaction and its impact upon To receive and act upon the reports of the external our financial statements ahead of approving the disclosures.
Jared Whitehouse took over as Head of Internal Audit in 2018 and To monitor the work of the Internal Audit function and has worked with his team to enhance the internal audit planning and ensure its effectiveness.
This has included making improvements to the To monitor the effectiveness of the systems of internal reporting to the Committee.
To ensure we have access to sufficient control and risk management.
resource and expertise to deliver a robust internal audit programme, our in-house team has worked with providers of co-sourced services.
To review, and where relevant refer to the Board, During 2018 the Company reviewed the basis of the arrangement significant control weaknesses or failures.
A competitive tender process was To monitor arrangements whereby employees and subsequently held and we agreed to re-appoint Deloitte as our coothers, may in confidence, raise matters of concern source partner and look forward to strengthening the depth of the whistleblowing, and ensure appropriate follow up relationship in the coming years.
In 2017 we approved changes to the Groups control frameworks which included the introduction of a rolling programme of control Priorities for 2019 effectiveness reviews which now supplement the control self assessments completed by management.
Regular reporting covering Reporting relating to IFRS 16 Leases.
the outcome of these reviews throughout 2018 has provided the Monitoring financial controls relating to platform Committee with further evidence of the alignment of controls with key migrations.
risks and the overall effectiveness of those controls.
Enhancements Further enhancing the clarity of reporting.
to our control self assessment programme have also contributed to Maintaining the Internal Audit framework.
our overall review of the control environment.
Further details on these developments can be found in the case study on page 105.
Further enhancing the internal controls framework.
Ensuring compliance with the new UK Corporate SIMON JEFFREYS Governance Code.
On behalf of the Audit Committee 26 February 2019 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 95 At each scheduled meeting the Committee receives reporting and Committee membership information that provides valuable reference points that support its Member Joined exercising of governance responsibilities and inform the Committees plans for future periods.
This includes: SJ Simon Jeffreys Chair 1 January 2014 receiving updates from the external auditor on progress with ongoing activities: BW Baroness Wheatcroft 8 October 2018 receiving updates on progress with the internal audit plan, including the findings from individual audits: RY Roger Yates SID 1 July 2014 receiving summaries of control effectiveness reviews completed since the last meeting: Other members serving during 2018 Stepped down being provided with an update from the Finance department, IC Iain Cornish 8 October 2018 including details of audit and non-audit services undertaken by  PwC in the year to date, a summary The Committees terms of reference set out the Committees role of developments in financial reporting, a summary of capital and authority as Audit Committee for the Company and certain management in the Group, and details of any financial controls subsidiaries.
They can be found on the corporate website at breaches since the last meeting: www.
receiving an update on any fraud activity since the last meeting: being provided with a report on any whistleblowing activity: and Operation and performance reviewing proposed changes to relevant policies for the Committee of the Committee to recommend to the Board for adoption.
The Committee comprises three independent Non-executive In addition to receiving updates from management, members of Directors.
Following his appointment as Chair of the Board on the Committee attend and contribute in industry briefings and 8 October 2018, Iain Cornish stepped down as a member of workshops to ensure they stay abreast of topical subjects for audit the Committee and was replaced by Baroness Wheatcroft.
One such example is Simon Jeffreys membership Committees effectiveness has been reviewed by the Board as part of the FRCs Technical Advisory Group.
Separate development of its overall assessment of its effectiveness see pages 92 and sessions, focusing on complex and topical items, are held for 93 and it remains satisfied that the Committee as a whole has the Committee members at least twice per year to support them in experience and qualifications necessary to successfully perform its maintaining their knowledge.
The Chair liaised with Baroness role, noting in particular that the Chair of the Committee is a qualified Wheatcroft prior to her joining the Committee regarding topics accountant and former auditor, and other members also have recent that would support her induction.
As a result, topics were added to and relevant experience and expertise in the financial services sector.
Regular attendees at Committee meetings during the year included The Committee maintains a forward agenda which aims to ensure the: Chair: Chief Financial Officer: Director Internal Audit: Executive that the Committees workload is balanced across the year and that Director Finance Chief Actuary : and Senior Statutory Auditor.
key areas of focus are considered at appropriate times.
The Committee also invited the following to attend meetings where appropriate: the Chief Executive: the Chief Risk Officer: members of The Audit Committee was responsible for carrying out the function the Finance, Internal Audit and Controls teams: and representatives required under the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR7.1.
Private sessions are held with the Audit committees and complied with The Statutory Audit Services Executive Director, Internal Audit and the external auditor after all for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of relevant meetings, providing a channel for them to raise concerns Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities in the absence of management and enabling the Senior Statutory Order 2014 throughout the year ended 31 December 2018.
Auditor to feed privately into the work of the Committee.
Whistleblowing The Chair of the Committee is a key contact in the whistleblowing policy and is the whistleblowers champion.
The Committee reviewed whistleblowing arrangements during the year and concluded that thearrangements were appropriate and consistently in force across the entire Group.
co. uk 96 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE C ON T I N U E D Committee activities during 2018 The Committee held six scheduled meetings during the year and the key topics considered at those meetings are summarised below: JANUARY FEBRUARY APRIL Year-end preparation Reviewed and Final Results Reviewed and Year-end review Undertook a review of approved accounting judgements and recommended to the Board the draft Final the 2017 year-end process, recognising actuarial assumptions, and received an Results announcement and draft Group, improvements made and highlighting update on progress with the 2017 yearCompany and SJPUK Annual Report and areas for further enhancement.
Accounts for 2017, including the viability the performance of the external auditor statement.
and carried out an annual review of the Corporate reporting Reviewed draft Committees terms of reference, agreeing statutory and regulatory reports for the External Audit Received the report of changes that clarified the Committees role Group and St. JamessPlace UK plc the external auditor on the results of their in relation to SJPUK.
and confirmed to management support audit and concurred with managements for the approach to be taken.
response to the recommendations Internal Audit Reviewed the identified.
performance of the Internal Audit function Asset valuation Considered a review during 2017 and agreed refinements to the of the external audit of the SJP Unit Internal controls As part of its ongoing audit planning process, grading structure Trusts and the half-yearly review of monitoring of the effectiveness of internal and reporting.
the oversight and monitoring of the controls, reviewed output from the Control activities of service providers, probing Self Assessment Process and the annual Bribery and fraud review Received an the robustness of the framework Internal Controls Evaluation carried out by annual review of the Groups systems and upon which valuations included in the Internal Audit.
controls for bribery and fraud.
consolidated Group accounts were Solvency II Reviewed compliance with Annual Whistleblowing Report based.
the Solvency Directive, and approved the Approved the Annual Whistleblowing Internal Audit Plan Approved the final publication of the 2017 Year End Solvency Report to be presented to the Board.
and Financial Condition Report SFCR and the submission of the 2017 Regular Supervisory Reporting RSR to the Regulator.
MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT SJ IC RY SJ IC RY SJ IC RY ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 97 JULY OCTOBER NOVEMBER Half-year results Reviewed and Internal Audit Plan Considered the Year-end preparation Considered recommended to the Board the draft 2018 proposed 2019 internal audit plan and key developments, material accounting Half-year Results announcement.
recommended additional areas of judgements and actuarial basis coverage.
proposals, agreeing in principle the External Audit Received and considered key assumptions to be adopted when the external auditors review for the half Year-end preparation Received preparing the 2018 year-end Annual year to 30 June 2018. an outline of the planning and key Report and Accounts.
considerations for the 2018 year end Asset valuation Received the half-yearly a development session covering key External Audit received an update review of the oversight and monitoring of changes arising from the securitisation from the external auditors on progress the activities of service providers working programme and new Financial Reporting with the 2018 year-end audit.
on the SJP Unit Trusts, considering the Standards was held following the meeting.
valuation methodologies adopted and Controls evaluated with examining the approach to be adopted for External Audit Plan Received and management and the external auditor valuing the new Diversified Assets FAIF.
agreed the external auditors plan for the the implications of GDPR on the year audit of the 2018 year-end.
end process and the adequacy of Internal Audit performance Reviewed controls relating to the opening of bank the impact of the new grading and accounts.
reporting, and assessed the adequacy of the skills and resource within the Internal Internal Audit Plan Approved the final Audit Department against current and 2019 Internal Audit Plan.
MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT SJ IC RY SJ BW RY SJ BW RY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 98 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE C ON T I N U E D Significant issues considered relating to the Groups financial reporting The Committees deliberations during the year have included taking account of the following areas of focus, paying particular attention to the implications for the Groups financial reporting, the risk of mis-statement of the financial statements, and also by assessing the scale of risk in the business: Area of focus Activity Fraud in revenue recognition During the course of its regular work, the Committee continued to review the relevant policies and receive regular reports from management and internal external audit on the controls.
This enabled theCommittee to continue to scrutinise the controls in place and gain assurance of their adequacy.
Financial controls Regular reports assessing the adequacy and performance of the financial controls were received during the year end, providing the Committee with assurance and enabling them to identify and address areas ofpotential weakness.
Asset valuation The Committee received half-yearly reports on the oversight and monitoring of the activities of service providers working on the SJP Unit Trusts, and was able to challenge management on the valuation framework and methodologies adopted.
A key area of the Committees focus during the year was the valuation methodology that would be adopted for the new Diversified Assets FAIF.
Accounting judgements and As part of reviewing the half-year and year-end reporting the Committee required management actuarial assumptions to identify and explain the key judgements and assumptions, and in particular any significant changes.
During the year, key accounting judgements agreed by the Committee included the value of theprovision held against business loans to Partners, and the deferred tax assets recognised.
Thevaluation of the operational readiness prepayment continued to be a key area of focus.
APMs Underlying profit, EEV Recognising the FRCs ongoing focus on alternative performance measures APMs, the and Cash result Committee reassessed with management the appropriateness of the APMs presented in the accounts.
The Committee noted the consistency of reporting from year to year and management confirmed that analysts and other market participants continue to place strong value on the Companys use of the Cash result and EEV.
The Committee reviewed the use of APMs in the revised presentation of the CFOs report and Financial Review, and was reassured that these werenot given undue prominence by comparison with IFRS measures.
IFRS developments and The Committee requested and received regular updates on developments in financial reporting, accounting policies with particular focus during the year on IFRS 9, IFRS 15, IFRS 16 and IFRS 17.
The Committee members received a focused development session enabling them to challenge the approach to betaken to reporting against standards coming into force in 2018 IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 and to enable them to evaluate the potential impact of those yet to come into force IFRS 16 and IFRS 17.
The disclosures madein this years financial statements can be found on pages 158 to 160.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 99 Fair, balanced and understandable opinion The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board to give its opinion as to whether it considers the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
To aid the Board, the Audit Committee carried out a formal review of the Annual Report and Accounts in relation to this requirement, including a consideration of the results of activities and information described above.
The Committee took account of investor feedback, commentary from the FRCs annual review of corporate reporting and received a detailed review of managements assessment, concentrating on key questions, the conclusions from which have been summarised below.
Following this review, the Committee was able to advise the Board that the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31December 2018 are fair, balanced and understandable.
Fair, balanced andunderstandable Questions Committees conclusions FAIR Does the report present the whole story, The Annual Report and Accounts, reflect the including challenges and issues faced as well positive growth in gross and net new business.
Strategic Objectives, detail developments in 2018 and areas of focus for 2019.
The combination of disclosures presents a fair reflection of the position and performance of St. JamessPlace.
BALANCED Does the report achieve consistency between The Annual Report and Accounts is consistent the financial statements and the narrative between the financial statements and narrative sections?
Where Alternative Performance Measures are included, explanation of their purpose and Are appropriate performance measures benefit is included along with a reconciliation included and clearly explained?
There is consistency, or rationale for balance between statutory and alternative differences, in the identification of areas of Audit performance measures with appropriate Committee and or External Audit focus.
Are key judgements and estimation uncertainties in the financial statements appropriately explained and are they consistent with the Audit Committee report and the risks the external auditor addresses in its report?
UNDERSTANDABLE Does the overall document have aclear and Revisions made in the year to the Annual Report cohesive structure?
and Accounts have increased its clarity with clear referencing between relevant sections.
Explanation Is the report readable and are the important of the Business model, strategies and accounting messages highlighted appropriately?
policies is given along with several Glossaries to aidtheunderstanding of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Are explanations of business models, strategies and accounting policies clear?
co. uk 100 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE C ON T I N U E D EFFECTIVENESS External Auditor A tender process was carried out in 2016 and PwC were reappointed ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR as the Groups external auditor.
This ensured that we continued As in previous years, the external auditor attended all Committee to meet the relevant requirements and recommendations relating meetings and met privately with the Committee regularly.
The Chair to the tenure of appointment set out in The Statutory Audit of the Committee met regularly with the Senior Statutory Auditor Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory both to receive updates on progress and also to discuss any private Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee matters.
The external auditor was also able to provide insight on Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order, Regulation EU topical issues as appropriate during the year.
No537 2014 and the FRCs revised Ethical Standard June 2016.
The Committee received and discussed the findings of the year end PwC has served as the Companys external auditor since 2009 and audit and the review of the half year results.
These were considered regulations require that we change our audit firm by no later than under the headings of the major risks as set out in the original audit the 2027 audit, although Jeremy Jensen, steps down as our Senior plan and Committee members applied their understanding of the Statutory Auditor in 2019 after five years in the role.
The Chair of scope of work, findings, judgements and conclusions of the external the Committee met with PwC during the year to consider Jeremys audit in their evaluation that the financial statements had been replacement, and the Committee has confirmed that from 2019 properly prepared.
Particular areas of the work of the external auditor AndyMoore will take on the role.
that the Audit Committee focused on during the early part of 2018 The slightly different rules in Dublin, which limit auditors tenure to a included: maximum of ten years mean that we have to change our auditor in new disclosures arising from the introduction of new Financial Dublin for the 2019 audit.
The Committee liaised with SJPIs audit Reporting Standards: committee on agreeing the selection criteria for a tender for a new the prominence of non-GAAP measures in the Annual Report and auditor, including focusing on ensuring a strong working relationship Accounts: with the Group auditor and the operational resilience, andtechnical capability, of the short-listed firms.
At the conclusion ofthe tender, the Client Assets CASS Audit, particularly the processes of the SJPIs audit committee recommended the appointment of Grant third-party administration outsource providers: and Thornton Ireland.
The Committee received regular updates the risk of misstatement of the operational readiness prepayment throughout the tender and concurred with the decision to appoint asset.
INDEPENDENCE AND NON-AUDIT SERVICES The Committees annual review of the external auditor concluded The Committee carried out its annual review of the Policy on Auditor that the audit service of PwC was fit for purpose and provided a Independence during the year and remained committed to ensuring robust evaluation of the risks underlying the Companys financial that the policy only permits our auditor to carry out limited non-audit statements.
PwC have indicated their willingness to continue in work, where there is no risk of compromising independence, and the office and the Board have agreed that a Resolution that they be reexternal auditor is the only supplier who could reasonably carry out appointed until the end of the 2020 Annual General Meeting will be the engagement.
The Committee considers proposals for non-audit put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
services as they arise and receives updates at each meeting on fees incurred with PwC for all services, along with details of trivial nonaudit services which the Committee has authorised management to approve.
In their Audit Report to the Committee, PwC confirmed that they remain independent of the Group and, having carried out its own assessment, the Committee concluded that PwC remained independent and objective.
The Policy on Auditor Independence is available on the Companys website and details of the non-audit services provided by PwC during the year can be found on page 169.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 101 Key considerations during the year that enabled the Committee to satisfy itself that the audit was effective and that the external auditors remain independent and objective are set out in the table below: Area of focus Activity Auditor The findings of the annual review by the FRC of the main auditing firms, which did not highlight any adverse effectiveness findings that were relevant to the Group or required follow up.
andquality The Audit Quality Review report specifically on  LLP.
The experience and knowledge of the team with due regard to the requirement for regular rotation ofauditteammembers.
The professional scepticism demonstrated by the external auditor.
The results of an internal review of auditor performance.
The findings of the external auditors own internal reviews of both the firm and our audit.
Auditor Review of the nature and extent of other non-audit work undertaken to confirm compliance with our policy.
independence and Review by St. JamessPlace to confirm no links or investments with the Company by the audit team.
objectivity The robustness and appropriateness of PwCs challenging of management when considering significant issues.
PwCs willingness to raise issues and the nature thereof with the Committee, including in Committee meetings and private sessions held in the absence of management.
Regular rotation of the audit team.
Level of fees Detailed information on the break-down of fees paid to our external audit firm see Note 5 on page 169.
co. uk 102 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE C ON T I N U E D Internal Audit The annual Internal Audit Plan was approved by the Audit Committee at the start of the year and was determined using a two-part planning process.
The first was a bottom-up risk assessment of the Groups Audit Universe which methodically assessed the risks faced by each areaof the business.
The second was a top-down assessment which identified the key current risks to the Groups operating environment.
Theresulting Audit Plan of 45 audits was a blend reflecting both of these assessments.
In addition to identified risks, the Audit Plan addressed three key themes throughout: Theme Description Example audits undertaken Client and Partner This theme focused on the Groups process for Partnership Recruitment and Regulatory ensuring appropriate client outcomes, overseeing the Authorisation continued growth and expansion of the Partnership Partnership Accreditation and Development and its compliance with the Groups advice standards, Partnership Support Specialists and recognised the importance of the field management Proposition Governance Framework team in delivering the required control solutions.
Operational This theme looked at the robustness and effectiveness Retirement Account Operations integrity of the Groups core operational processes, the impact Partner Lending of continued growth and increased complexity and IT Incident Management the impact of major change initiatives.
This theme Unit Pricing accounted for the largest number of audits in the AuditPlan.
Alternative Investment Governance Business Continuity Management and IT Disaster Recovery Regulation and This theme recognised the changing regulatory Management Accountability Regimes compliance environment, the importance of compliance across MiFID II and IDD Implementation the Groups increasingly complex operations and the GDPR emphasis on the role of second line monitoring.
Client Money The delivery of the Audit Plan is the responsibility of the Director of Internal Audit, who is accountable to the Audit Committee and has oneto-one meetings with the Chair of the Audit Committee and the Chair of the Board.
Progress of plan delivery was monitored by the Audit Committee through regular Internal Audit Progress Reports submitted to each meeting.
These reports inform the Committee of the overall status of the Audit Plan, summaries of audits issued in the period and updates on the position of remedial actions allocated to management.
In addition, points arising under each of the above themes are included in these reports each quarter, which are also collated together as a key part of the annual Internal Control Effectiveness attestation.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function is externally assessed every five years as a minimum, with the latest assessment completed by Protiviti in 2015.
In intervening years, the output of the functions ongoing Quality Assurance process is reported to the Committee for their consideration.
This is supplemented with six monthly reporting to the Committee of the skills and experience of the functions members, and resourcing levels.
Internal Audit have also continued their co-sourcing agreement with Deloitte LLP following a competitive tender process completed in the year.
The Chair of the Committee represented the Committee throughout the process and attended the tender presentations.
This co-sourcing agreement provides specialist expertise and additional resources to maintain and enhance the level of assurance provided to the Audit Committee.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 103 Refresh of the Audit Universe The Audit Universe maps out the organisational structure and breaks the Group down into individual components, each of which is individually risk assessed.
For the 2019 Audit Plan, the universe has been refreshed to align with the latest Group structure, and to explicitly include key stages of the client service and product life cycles as individual components and also to re-size all components so that each can be a single audit.
This significantly simplified thenumber of components, allowing for the development of a regular cycle of risk-focused core assurance activity.
co. uk 104 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE C ON T I N U E D Systems of internal control The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that management maintains comprehensive systems of internal control and for assessing their effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to identify, evaluate and manage within appetite, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and hence provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
St. JamessPlace is committed to operating within strong systems of internal control that enable business to be executed and risk taken without exposing itself to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage.
The most significant internal control assurance activities considered by the Committee during 2018 are outlined below: Area Activity Matters addressed Role of the Committee Operations Management The effectiveness of Monitored the status of control issues identified by Control Selfthe overall control management through regular reports from the Head of Internal Assessment environment, including Controls.
the status of any Assessed the progress of the enhancements being made to the material control issues CEO attestation CSA process.
and the progress of to the Committee The Committee has continued to use the output from the CSA specific remediation on the integrity process in its review of the control environment.
of first line Committee welcomed the improvements made in the year to give operations.
a reasonable overview of the control environment, the Committee reviewed plans to introduce increased regularity and rigour which should provide more timely visibility on controls requiring remediation and associated risks.
Risk Reports from the The effectiveness of Evaluated reports from the Risk Committee on the internal management Risk Committee.
the control environment control environment.
and in respect of design CEO attestation Considered the role of the second line of defence in the compliance and effectiveness of to the Committee oversight of operational risk controls.
St. JamessPlace risk on the second line, The Committee received reports from the Risk Committee with management systems.
risk management its conclusions on the design and effectiveness of SJPs risk functions.
Internal Control The effectiveness Monitored issues arising from Control Effectiveness reviews to controls Effectiveness of the design and identify pervasive themes.
operation of key control Evaluated reports on the internal control environment from the activities in respect Review of the CSA Head of Internal Controls.
of the most pervasive system led by the The Committee received summary reports on the conclusions business risks.
Head of Internal of Control Effectiveness reviews carried out by Internal Controls, Controls.
which provided an additional layer of independent assurance.
The Committee will continue to monitor the outputs from this assurance programme in 2019.
Internal Audit Internal Control The effectiveness of Discussed the opinion provided by Internal Audit on the Annual Evaluation.
the overall control effectiveness of St. JamessPlace internal control framework environment, including in2018.
the status of any The Committee received and discussed the annual evaluation material control issues.
ofthe internal control environment from Internal Audit.
External Audit acts as a further check on the Companys processes.
These sources of assurance assist the Committee in completing its annual review and enable the Committee to attest on behalf of the Board that it has been able to properly review the effectiveness of St. JamessPlaces system of internal control in accordance with the 2014 FRC Guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
The Committee did not identify any significant failings or weaknesses and it has ensured that corrective action is being taken on matters arising from the review.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 105 Enhancement of Controls Assurance Improvement of the Internal Control System assessment continued to be a theme in 2018.
The management Control Self-Assessment CSA process has been redeveloped from the ground up to provide a greater level of granularity and robustness.
This enhancement has been achieved by underpinning the SJP CSA Framework with the 2013 COSO Framework and developing a greater alignment between the CSA Universe, the Audit Universe and the Risk Management Framework.
These improvements have been dovetailed with independent, objective Control Effectiveness reviews by Internal Controls to offer a greater level of rigour and challenge to management.
This combination of activities proactively assists the identification of controls that require remediation in a timelier manner.
