82 GOVERNANCE CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT This report explains how your Board leads the Companys approach to corporate governance and explains how the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied in practice.
On 8 October 2018 Sarah Bates retired as a Director and Chair of the Board and Iain Cornish was elected as her successor.
As a consequence, the Non-executive Directors NEDs, excluding the Chair, accounted for less than half the Board, meaning that the Company did not comply with Provision B.
However, following David Lambs retirement as a Director on 26 February 2019, the Non-executive Directors now account for half of the Board, excluding the Chair.
Further details on the Boards succession planning can be found in the Nomination IAIN CORNISH, Chair Committee Report onpage 113. chair@sjp.
co. uk Other than as stated above, the Board considers that the Company has complied with all of the other provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, available at: www.
Detailed reporting on remuneration, as required by the Code, can be found in theDirectors Remuneration Report.
Our unique culture as described on page 26 has been central Leadership and culture to the success of the Group since its formation, and the Board recognises its continued importance if the Group is to continue this Safeguarding our culture and setting success in the long-term.
Culture has always been viewed as a core element of the Groups strategy.
As such the Board recognises its the tone from the top essential role in setting the tone from the top in the way it behaves The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the and the decisions which it makes, and it regularly considers how Company and the Group by: the commitment to culture is maintained across colleagues, the Partnership and key third parties.
Inevitably as the Group expands providing entrepreneurial leadership and direction to the Group in our approach to retaining our culture has to evolve, and in 2019 setting out its strategic aims, visions and values and overseeing the Board intends to lead further work in refreshing its approach delivery against these: to the assessment of culture and ensuring continuity across the monitoring financial performance and reporting and approving St. JamessPlace community.
Further details of how we approach recommending payments of dividends: the safeguarding of our culture and monitor the views and adherence setting the Companys risk appetite, assessing the principal risks by those within the St. JamessPlace community can be found in facing the Company and ensuring that adequate controls are in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 56 to 69 and under place to manage risk effectively: Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 51 to 54. ensuring that appropriate and effective succession planning arrangements and remuneration policies are in place: implementing appropriate corporate governance procedures: reviewing and approving major transactions or initiatives proposed by the Executives: and determining the Companys policy on charitable and political donations.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 83 Division of responsibility The job descriptions of each Director, including the Chair and Chief Executive, and the division of responsibilities between them are clearly defined and agreed by the Board.
The responsibilities of each of the Directors and the role of Secretary are summarised below.
THE BOARD Leadership Independent oversight CHAIR CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Responsible for the leadership Responsible for providing of the Board and its continuing leadership and direction for, Responsible for providing a sounding board for effectiveness, ensuring that and oversight of, the financial, the Chair and to serve as an intermediary for the Board is satisfied that the accounting, tax, capital, liquidity the other Directors, when necessary, to lead Groups purpose, values and and unit pricing activities of the appraisal of the performance of the Chair strategy align with its culture the Group, and for maintaining and to be available to shareholders as a point and that communication effective investor relations.
of contact if they have concerns which contact between the Executive and through normal channels has failed to resolve Non-executive Directors, as well orfor which such contact is inappropriate.
as with shareholders generally, iseffective.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE MANAGING DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Responsible for the development Responsible for leading the and communication of the growth and development of the Responsible for contributing to the Groups strategy, developing Partnership, ensuring that all entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, within and achieving the business members of the Partnership a framework of prudent and effective controls.
objectives, leading and receive appropriate supervision, Non-executive Directors provide independence, motivating an effective senior oversight, development and impartiality, experience, specialist knowledge management team, and ensuring support, and provide high quality, and other diverse personal skills and capabilities.
an appropriate culture is adopted suitable advice to clients.
in the day-to-day management of the Group.
COMPANY SECRETARIAT Responsible for guiding the Board in meeting the requirements of relevant legislation and regulation and ensuring that board procedures are both followed and regularly reviewed.
Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary at all times, as well as independent professional advice, where needed, in order to assist them in carrying out their duties.
co. uk 84 GOVERNANCE CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT C ON T I N U E D Regular dialogue is an important way of staying abreast of the Relations with stakeholders views of investors and periodic meetings with investors will provide The Board recognises that the business has a broad range of an insight into the considerations that drive their views on us an stakeholders, and its duties to them are reflected in our strategy organisation.
The Board is actively considering if additional channels which has a fundamental and clear focus on each stakeholder, would enhance shareholder engagement, and would welcome the including our workforce, the Partnership, our clients, shareholders, views of shareholders.
third-party suppliers, regulators and wider society.
This is not an exhaustive list and the Board ensures that its activity extends to The Chair, SID and other Non-executive Directors are available for engagement with a broad range of stakeholders when planning consultation with shareholders on request and will be available the year ahead.
More detail on how we engage with specific after the Companys Annual General Meeting which will be held stakeholders can be found in the Strategic Report, in particular on Tuesday 14 May 2019, further details of which are set out in intheHow we engage sections on pages 18 to 26. theNotice of Annual General Meeting.
People have been at the core of our business model since our formation and this has been reflected in the high level of engagement How the Board operates with our workforce.
The requirement of the new Code in 2019 for a formal workforce engagement method has provided us an opportunity to revisit how we can build on how we engage directly Powers of Directors with our people, and responsibility for oversight of our workforce The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles engagement framework is to be vested in a senior individual of Association the Articles, prescribed by Special Resolutions of who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
That person will take the Company and codified in UK company law.
The Articles contain, responsibility for establishing and managing the engagement with for example, specific provisions and restrictions concerning the the Board, under the supervision of the Non-executive Directors, Companys power to borrow money.
They also provide Directors ledby Baroness Wheatcroft, whom the Board intends to appoint with authority to allot unissued shares, up to pre-determined levels asits nominated Non-executive Director for workforce engagement.
set and approved by shareholders in general meetings.
The Articles We will continue to refine our approach to engagement with can be amended by a special resolution of the members of the colleagues into the future.
Company, and a copy can be found on the Companys website.
Our shareholders have granted the Directors authority to make charitable We continue to maintain close relationships with institutional donations, and further details on the donations made can be found shareholders through direct dialogue and frequent meetings, and we on page 144. also meet regularly with the Groups brokers who facilitate meetings with investors and their representatives.
During 2018, shareholder At the 2018 AGM, shareholders granted authority to the Directors for interaction has included holding shareholder roadshows, where the purchase by the Company of its own shares, with such authority the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer presented the expiring at the end of the 2019 AGM, or 30 June 2019, whichever is Companys full year and half year results to investors, attending the earlier.
The Directors will propose the renewal of this authority investor conferences, holding Capital Markets days for investors and atthe 2019 AGM.
During the year, the Company did not purchase analysts addressing a wide range of strategic and operational topics, anyofits own shares.
investor meetings and conference calls.
Further to the powers granted above, the Board maintains a During the year, the Board commissioned an investor study which full schedule of matters reserved to it together with a Group provided an opportunity to assess in more detail its investor base, Management Responsibilities Map which sets out the senior investor behaviour, drivers of share price performance and investors manager functions, prescribed responsibilities and control perception of a number of key aspects of our business model.
In functionswithin each subsidiary of the Group as applicable.
addition, following his appointment in October, the Chair invited TheGroup Management Responsibilities Map includes, inter alia, the Groups largest institutional investors to meet with him.
The terms of reference for the various Board Committees, a schedule outcomes of the investor study and the Chairs investor meetings, ofthe Companys policies and detailed job descriptions for each combined with attendance at engagement events and updates from ofthe Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors.
all other activity, have provided valuable assistance to the Board in understanding the views and expectations of investors.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 85 Planning and preparing The Chair is responsible for setting the Board agenda together with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Each year, the Chair and CEO discuss the forward Board agenda for the year, based on themes from the Business Plan and the Groups strategy, and potential topics are identified for strategy sessions and discussions on specific topics.
The Boards forward agenda is also co-ordinated with those of its Committees to ensure that topics are given sufficient coverage in the most appropriate forums.
The Chairs of the various Committees report on their activity at Board meetings and liaise with the Chair to ensure items escalated from the Committees get sufficient time and focus in Board meeting agendas.
The Board and other key Directors forums are explained in more detail below: SCHEDULED BOARD Scheduled Board meetings follow an agreed format with the final agenda being set by the MEETINGS Chair, Chief Executive and Company Secretary by reference to the forward agenda and having considered key developments since the previous meeting.
This approach ensures coverage of the Boards key responsibilities and strategic priorities, whilst also providing the flexibility to address topical matters.
The papers for each meeting, which include an Executive Report covering key developments and performance indicators, are sent to the Board a week ahead of the meeting.
This ensures that the information is timely and that the Directors have sufficient time to prepare for the meetings.
BOARD DINNERS Throughout the year, Board dinners are held on the nights before Board meetings allowing the Directors greater time to discuss matters of a material or more discursive nature with additional internal and external participants.
STRATEGY Focused strategy meetings are held to enable the Board and management to reflect, debate, refine MEETINGS and agree on the Groups strategy.
NED MEETINGS The independent Non-executive Directors meet privately with the Chair four times during the year, toconsider matters arising from Board meetings and also meet once without the Chair.
DEVELOPMENT Directors are provided with development sessions on specific topics during the year.
Further SESSIONS details can be found in the Effectiveness of the Board section on pages 92 and 93.
OTHER MEETINGS In 2018 the Board also participated in a red team simulation which afforded them the opportunity to test the controls and procedures in place to respond in the event of a focused cyber security attack.
The Board also appoints ad hoc committees from time to time to manage procedural matters relating to decisions it has made.
The Boards activity during 2018 is set out in more detail on the following pages, and the work undertaken by the Board Committees is provided in their individual committee reports.
co. uk ATTENDANCE IN 2018 86 GOVERNANCE CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT C ON T I N U E D Independence The Board and its Committees When determining whether a Non-executive Director is independent, the Board considers each individual against the criteria set out in Composition the Code and also considers how they conduct themselves in Board The Board currently comprises three Executive Directors, three meetings, including how they exercise judgement and independent independent Non-executive Directors and the Chair who was thinking.
Taking these factors into account, the Board believes independent on appointment.
Sarah Bates and David Lamb retired that all the Non-executive Directors continue to demonstrate their from the Board on 8 October 2018 and 26 February 2019 respectively.
All of the other Directors were in office throughout the financial year As previously reported, the Board remains satisfied that and up to the date of the report, and their biographical details, including SimonJeffreys role as chair of Aon UK Ltd has no bearing on his their membership of Board Committees, are set out on pages 78 to independence or that of New Bridge Street or Aon Consulting 79.
During the limited period between Sarah and Davids retirements advisers to the Remuneration and Investment Committees.
AonUK the number of independent Non-executive Directors fell to three, below Ltd, Aon Consulting and New Bridge Street are part of the Aon group the number of Executive Directors.
This situation arose because of ofcompanies.
When considering their relationships to the AonGroup, an unforeseen delay in the appointment of a new Non-executive the Board took into account the fact that Aon UK Ltd, Aon Consulting Director who would also serve as chair of the Risk Committee.
During and New Bridge Street operate in different divisions of a large group this period the Chair of the Board also remained as chair of the Risk and their reporting and ownership lines to the Aon Group board are Committee and will continue to do so pending the finalisation of a entirely segregated.
As part of the long-term succession planning to ensure that the Board has the right depth and diversity of skills to oversee the business into the future, the Board expects to increase thenumber of independent Non-executive Directors.
There are four wholly Non-executive OUR NON-EXECUTIVE BOARD COMMITTEES Committees of the Board.
The Chair of the Board is a member of, and Chairs, the Risk AUDIT RISK NOMINATION REMUNERATION and Nomination Committees.
All of the COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE other members of these Committees are independent Non-executive Directors.
Further Report on Report on Report on Report on information on these Committees can be found page 94 page 106 page 111 page 117 in their separate reports on pages 94 to 141.
Director Board Audit Risk Nomination Remuneration IC Iain Cornish Chair 6 6 4 4 5 5 6 6 AC Andrew Croft CEO 6 6 IG Ian Gascoigne 6 6 CG Craig Gentle 6 6 SJ Simon Jeffreys 6 6 6 6 5 5 5 5 BW Baroness Wheatcroft 6 6 2 2 5 5 6 6 5 5 RY Roger Yates SID 6 6 6 6 5 5 1 1 5 5 Past Directors Sarah Bates stepped SB 6 6 downon 8 October 2018 David Lamb stepped DL 6 6 downon 26 February 2019 This table provides details of scheduled meetings held in the 2018 financial year and the attendance at each meeting of the members of each Board Committee.
The Directors also attended meetings of Committees that they were not members of, when invited by the chairs of the respective Committees.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 87 Other committees Executive Committees reporting to the Board In addition to the wholly EXECUTIVE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE Non-executive Committees, BOARD the Board hasalso delegated Comprises the Chief Executive specific responsibilities to Comprises the Executive Directors of the Board and Chief Financial Officer and three further Committees, and other members of senior management.
It is is responsible for identifying the members of which via the Executive Board that operational matters and determining matters to are Executive Directors.
The Executive bedisclosed to the market.
The terms of reference Board is responsible for communicating of the Committees are and implementing the Groups business regularly reviewed and are plan objectives, ensuring that the necessary included in the Management resources are in place in order to achieve Responsibilities Map.
those objectives, and managing the day-to-day operational activities of the Group.
SHARE SCHEME COMMITTEE Comprises the Executive Directors and its purpose is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities for operating and administering Executive, Employee, Partner and Restricted share plans.
Other Executive Committees A number of Committees have ASIA EXCO DISTRIBUTION also been established by the EXCO main Executive Board assisting itin executing its responsibilities.
They each have Terms of Reference which set out clearly FINANCE EXCO GROUP RISK their delegated authorities EXCO and a right of escalation of matters outside that remit totheExecutiveBoard.
INVESTMENT OPERATIONS EXCO EXCO PRODUCT EXCO ROWAN DARTINGTON ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 88 GOVERNANCE CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT C ON T I N U E D Highlights of activities at 2018 Board meetings FEBRUARY APRIL MAY Approval of the 2018 Business Plan Administration platform strategy The Companys Annual General Meeting 2017 Annual Results, Annual Report 2025 strategy Board succession, in particular the and Accounts and regulatory returns Chairs successor Investment performance in the year to date The notice for the Companys 2018 Plans to utilise securitisation to support Succession planning for leadership of the Annual General Meeting Partner lending Investment Division Progress with pilot initiatives focusing The implications of the change in Refining the senior leadership teams on enhancing oversight of, and support ownership of DST structure to, the Partnership Annual Whistleblowing Report Strategic growth initiatives Central London Property strategy The Groups Slavery and Human Executive succession planning Trafficking Statement JULY SEPTEMBER DECEMBER Board Development and Board focus Growing the Partnership and the Market Board Effectiveness Review Environment Half year results and the declaration of Progress with the migration of the an interim dividend Purpose, Business Model and 2025 Administration Platform strategy Investment management monitoring 2025 strategy, including the approach Administration platform migration tooperational excellence Investor study and investor perceptions progress and future plans 2019 Business plan framework Administration Service Provider Securitisation of Partner loans Strategy Strategic growth initiatives Employee survey results Investment Consultant Strategy Corporate governance reform and Approval of the ORSA and Risk appetite workforce engagement statements Group governance model ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 89 Key strategic considerations during the year included: The strategy and performance against the strategy are discussed in the Chief Executives Report, the Chairs Report and the Strategic Report, but a summary of significant topics considered by the Board during 2018 are set out below: BOARD AND MANAGEMENT 1.
SUCCESSION During 2018, the Group successfully As reported last year, a number of pilot The Board announced the retirements of completed the migration of a initiatives were established with the Sarah Bates and David Lamb during the significant proportion of business principal aims of preserving the existing year and succession has been a central that remained on legacy systems onto relationship-based culture, keeping the theme.
At Board level, the focus has the Bluedoor platform.
The Directors business safe and helping Partners been on establishing a clear succession closely monitored each project and, to operate as business people with plan for all of the NEDs, particularly in as the migration of all the core books professionalism.
The Board has closely light of the revisions to the Code.
At the of business onto Bluedoor nears monitored the progress of these initiatives management level we have overseen completion, reflected on the progress and considered the changing needs of the the appointment of Robert Gardner, to date and considered the medium Partnership and the market environment whowill take over many of David Lambs to long-term administration platform so as to adapt the strategy to support the executive responsibilities, and have strategy.
During the year DST, the growth of the Partnership.
concentrated on developing a diverse outsourced provider for the Groups pipeline of talented future leaders, administration functions of its UK providing options for the Board and life insurance company, unit trust future boards when selecting successors 4.
BORROWING SECURITISATION manager, and investment administration to the existing management team.
company, was acquired by SS&C.
In September, we successfully completed Given the significance of the service our first securitisation of Partner loans.
DST provides to the Group, the Board Supporting our Partners to grow their CYBER RISK AND focused on the implications of this own businesses is essential if we are to 7.
INFORMATIONSECURITY change in ownership for the Group.
continue to grow the Group and the Board is confident that, subject to the appetite of Cyber and information security external lenders, the high quality of Partner continues to be high on the agenda for loans will provide a highly scalable funding both the Board and the Risk Committee.
CLIENTS mechanism that will grow with the Group.
We have made significant investments Ensuring our client proposition remains into our systems and into raising the relevant and appropriate is fundamental awareness and understanding of to our business model.
In 2018, the our employees and have supported 5.
PEOPLE AND DIVERSITY Board oversaw the launch of the Groups our Partners to increase their own new Diversified Assets FAIF.
Further We carried out our biennial employee knowledge and systems capabilities.
information can be found on page 23. survey in 2018 and were pleased to see a During 2018 we achieved the UK strong response rate of 90% and an overall Governments Cyber Essentials Plus engagement score of 82%, which was accreditation.
Although the vast significantly higher than our benchmark.
majority of our attention is on preventing Whilst the Board is very happy with the incidents, the Board recognise that we high response rate and overall level of should not ignore the importance of engagement, we were keen to focus on the being prepared to deal with an incident areas where we could make improvements.
Consequently, we Our first Gender Pay Gap Report was undertook a red team simulation to published in 2018 and our results served to help identify areas where we could emphasise the importance of the diversity strengthen our existing procedures.
initiatives we reported upon last year.
More detail on the progress made during the year can be found in the Nomination Committees Report on pages 111 to 115.
co. uk 90 GOVERNANCE CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT C ON T I N U E D Key strategic considerations during the year continued 8.
BREXIT The pace of regulatory change With management, the Board devoted Although it is anticipated that Brexit will remains intense and the Board considerable time to reviewing the medium not have a material direct impact on and its Committees continue to term strategic direction of the Group the Group, the Board has been careful spend considerable time assessing to 2025, and more generally the overall to ensure that the business is prepared developments, in particular their strategic appetite of the Group.
for all eventualities and has considered impact upon the business.
During all potential areas of impact.
For further 2018, the Board has overseen the information, refer to the Risk and Risk Groups response to the introduction Management section on pages 47 to 55.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of GDPR and continues to monitor the 11.
AND WORKFORCE implications of MiFID II, IDD and PRIIPs.
ENGAGEMENT The extension of the Senior Managers and Certification Regime to financial Following the publication of the revised services organisations other than banks Code and the introduction of the will impact a number of our Group Companies Miscellaneous Reporting companies, and the Board directly, Regulations 2018, the Board agreed key and has been another area of focus, actions that would ensure that the Board particularly in the latter half of the year.
continued to meet, both the letter and the spirit of the Code.
A key focus was the establishment of a formalised workforce engagement mechanism, to support 9.
RISK MANAGEMENT our existing employee engagement In conjunction with the work of the programme.
The Board considered Risk Committee, the Board undertook proposals and will oversee the introduction a robust assessment of the principal of the final agreed mechanism in 2019. risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency orliquidity.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 91 Directors and officers indemnity Effectiveness of the Board and insurance Appointment, replacement and The Company has taken out insurance covering Directors and officers against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as re-election of Directors Directors or officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The The Articles permit Directors to appoint additional Directors and to Company has granted indemnities to all of its Directors in their fill casual vacancies and any Directors appointed must stand for capacities as Directors of the Company and, where applicable, election at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their subsidiary companies on terms consistent with the applicable appointment.
All other Directors will stand for re-election at each statutory provisions.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions AGM.
Directors can be removed from office by an ordinary resolution for the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were of shareholders or in certain other circumstances as set out in the accordingly in force during the course of the financial year ended Articles.
31December 2018, and remain in force at the date of this Report.
Before a Director is proposed for re-election by shareholders, the Time commitments Chair considers whether his or her performance continues to be effective and whether they demonstrate commitment to the role.
Non-executive Directors are expected to commit sufficient time to After careful consideration, the Chair is pleased to support the enable them to undertake their responsibilities and, as explained in re-election of all Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Each Director the Report of the Nomination Committee, their capacity to fulfil their brings significant skills to the Board as a result of their varied careers responsibilities is reviewed on an ongoing basis so that the Board and we believe that this diversity is essential to contributing to the can be satisfied that each Non-executive Director commits sufficient appropriate mix of skills and experience needed by the Board and time to the business of the Company.
its Committees in order to protect the interests of the Companys Iain Cornish was appointed as Chair in October 2018 and devotes shareholders.
As in previous years, the Board is recommending to a significant proportion of his time to the role.
In conjunction with shareholders that all the Directors retiring at the forthcoming Annual the SID, he regularly assesses his commitments and continues General Meeting be re-elected.
to manage his portfolio of other activities to ensure that he has sufficient time to meet the requirements of the position.
He currently Duration of appointments holds non-executive roles in Arrow Global Group PLC and Leeds Non-executive Directors, other than the Chair, are appointed for a Building Society.
He has a full attendance record at the Companys specified term and the Executive Directors have service contracts Board meetings in 2018 and has also attended 22 Board Committee copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors meetings in addition to spending a substantial amount of time are available for inspection at the registered office address and will engaging with the business outside formal Board and Committee be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
The Board is satisfied that he commits sufficient time to the business of the Company.
Executive Directors service agreements The Executive Directors all have service contracts with the Company Conflicts of interest that provide for termination on 12 months notice from either the The Board has in place procedures for the management of conflicts Company or the Director except in certain exceptional recruitment of interest.
In the event a Director was to become aware that they situations where a longer notice period from the Company may had an actual or potential conflict of interest, they must disclose this be set, provided it reduces to a maximum of 12 months within a to the Board immediately.
The Board then considers the potential specified time limit.
Service contracts do not contain a fixed end conflict of interest based on its particular facts, and decides whether date.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director to authorise the existence of the potential conflict and or impose or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or conditions on such authority if it believes this to be in the best employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions in the interests of the Company.
Internal controls also exist whereby regular Companys share schemes may, in certain circumstances, cause checks are conducted to ensure that the Directors have disclosed share awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on material interests appropriately.
Except as stated in the Directors Remuneration Report, no Director has, or has had during the year under review, any material interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
co. uk 92 GOVERNANCE CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT C ON T I N U E D Training attended by Directors includes presentations on topical Succession planning and diversity issues, specific teach-ins, visits to head office and other locations The Board has a responsibility to ensure that appropriate succession to meet with staff and members of the Partnership and attending plans are in place for the Board, the Executive Board and senior seminars or other events taking place throughout the year.
Details of progress made in the year can be found training is also set up to deal with individual requests, external advisers inthe Report of the Nomination Committee.
are invited to deliver presentations, and the Non-executive Directors are able to attend seminars or conferences which they consider will Inductions for new Directors assist them in carrying out their duties.
A list of training received An appropriate induction programme is designed to enable all new during the year is maintained by the Company Secretary.
Specific Directors to meet senior management, understand the business and NED Development sessions are held four times a year and the Audit future strategy, visit various office locations and speak directly to Committee also receives scheduled development sessions addressing Partners and staff around the country as well as being introduced complex and topical areas within its remit.
NED Development sessions to other key stakeholders.
Induction plans are tailored to meet held in 2018 covered topics that included the new Diversified Assets the specific requirements of incoming Directors.
To support his FAIF, the extension of the Senior Managers and Certification Regime transition when taking on the role of Chair, a programme of activities and developments in the cyber threat environment.
was also established for Iain Cornish.
During the year all the Directors identified and undertook relevant training based on their individual requirements.
Where relevant Continuing professional development individual and group sessions are also held with third-party advisers, The Chair and Company Secretary ensure the continuing professional Partners and employees, and Directors attend externally facilitated development for all Directors, based on their individual requirements.
events that are relevant to their own circumstances.
2018 Board Effectiveness Review Scoping the Review The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees every year, with an externally facilitated evaluation being carried out at least every three years.
In 2018, following a market review, the Board, led by Iain Cornish in his roles as Senior Independent Director and latterly as Chair, selected Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited Boardroom Review to independently facilitate the evaluation.
In a year that has seen the appointment of a new Chair and Chief Executive, an externally facilitated review provided an ideal opportunity to evaluate the Boards effectiveness and establish a clear plan of how it should develop in the coming years.
The review also helped identify key considerations for the Board and the Nomination Committee when planning for succession by assisting the Boards identification of the skills, knowledge and experience that it was important to retain and attract when recruiting future Directors.
Completing the Review Having chosen Boardroom Review, the Chair met with Dr Long and agreed a comprehensive scope and established a timetable for the various activities: INTERVIEWS OBSERVATIONS BRIEFING FEEDBACK AND FOLLOW UP DISCUSSION One-to-one confidential Dr Long attended and A detailed discussion The Board met Within 6-12 months interviews were held observed meetings document containing collectively and of the delivery of with all Board members of the Board and its the key findings individually with Dr Long the briefing, Dr Long and certain executives.
principal Committees, from the review following the issuance will follow up with including private and identifying of the briefing to reflect the Chair to assess sessions.
areas for focus and upon on the findings implementation of recommendations was and agree priorities theactions agreed.
issued to the Board in and actions.
meeting the Board agreed a detailed action plan for 2019.
The Feedback and Discussion session held in December 2018 provided an opportunity for Dr Long to highlight her findings and for the Board to agree actions to focus on in 2019, both of which are summarised overleaf.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 93 Observations from the Review Actions agreed by the Board Board dynamics The Review recognised that the foundations of an The review also identified challenges and recommended areas of effective Board are in place, providing a basis from which to provide focus which helped the Board shape a Board effectiveness action strong leadership of the Group in the coming years.
The actions the Board has set itself for 2019 have been corporate culture is evident in the boardroom where debate is open, summarised below: supportive and of high quality, supported by good information, the Improving the Boards preparation for the future Recognising quality of which is receiving increasing focus.
the importance of providing the Board with a solid base from which The work of the Board Each of the Directors is fully engaged to deliver value, we will focus on: ensuring the Board has visibility with the strategic focus and there is a shared perspective of the and can understand the external landscape: continuing to make current external landscape.
The Board pays attention to the risk and improvements to the quality of reporting to the Board: broadening control framework, and has good visibility of and access to the lines the range of presenters to the Board including external parties : and of defence.
Relationships with external stakeholders are strong, keeping the Boards focus in this respect under continuous review.
underpinned by open communication channels and mutual respect.
Improving the composition and development of the Board Effective use of time The Boards Committees are effectively Focusing on the Boards continuous development we will look chaired by experienced Non-executive Directors, with a focus to improve the Boards relevancy: ensure diversity of perspective on: their priorities: making the most of the time available: and andexperience: and develop the role of the Nomination Committee.
maintaining a high quality of information.
A balanced agenda exists Improving the Boards input into leadership transition In order between the Audit and Risk Committees, and the Remuneration to maintain an organisation which is sustainable for the future we Committee pays proper attention to the alignment of expectation will focus on: the management of future leadership transitions: and reward.
enhancing the Boards visibility of the make-up of the workforce: and formalising the Boards monitoring of culture and its engagement with the workforce.
The Board is not expecting to carry out an externally facilitated review in 2019, but recognises the value that the process delivers andis keen to ensure that the structure of the 2019 internally facilitated review will highlight progress against the above actions, aswell as identifying further areas for improvement.
By order of the Board: IAIN CORNISH Chair 26 February 2019 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
