STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 111 REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE I was privileged to take over as Chair from Sarah Bates in October and I am personally grateful to her for the support which she gave me during the transition, and for the very strong legacy which she has left me.
Following the appointment of Andrew Croft as Chief Executive at the start of 2018, the Committees primary focus during the year was appointing successors to: Sarah Bates as Chair: DavidLamb as Head of the Investment Division and myself as Chair of the Risk Committee.
The latter has taken longer than anticipated, and it is an important priority for the Committee.
In this regard, the timing of the introduction of a new nine-year tenure rule for Chairs in the revised Code, albeit on a comply or explain basis, was not ideal and the Board recognises that my term as Chair is likely to be shorter than had been anticipated when selecting me.
IAIN CORNISH, Chair of the Nomination Committee However, it has served as a further catalyst to establish a mediumterm pipeline of succession for all of the Non-executive roles on theBoard.
Key objective of the Committee The Committee has overall responsibility for planning During the year, the Committee also oversaw the appointment of Board and senior management succession, leading Robert Gardner to our Executive Board with effect from 1 March the process for new appointments and ensuring that 2019.
Robert brings a wealth of experience from outside the these appointments bring the required skills, experience organisation and his close working relationship with St. Jamess and diversity to the organisation.
As part of this, the Place over the years means he is already familiar with the business Committee reviews the governance framework, including and its unique culture.
the structure, size and composition of the Board and Having successfully managed changes to the Chair, Chief Executive its Committees to ensure they are made up of the right and Chief Financial Officer in the last two years, the Committee is people with the necessary skills and experience to direct very clear that a key objective over the next couple of years will be to the Company in the successful execution of its strategy.
continue to focus on the succession plans for the Board and senior management.
Key to this will be ensuring that individuals with the skills and attributes necessary at those levels are identified and Role of the Committee in summary developed, providing a strong and diverse pipeline that gives us To review regularly Board and Committee composition and structure.
options when it comes to selecting the next generation of leaders for the business.
To identify, report on and recommend for Board approval suitable candidates for appointment to the Board.
The opportune timing of the external Board effectiveness review To review the Groups approach to diversity and carried out in 2018 provided the Committee with an independent inclusionand oversee the governance structures view of what the Board does well and could do better.
This will oftheGroup and the Board evaluation process.
be invaluable information when considering what key skills and experience need to be factored into succession plans.
To consider and review succession planning for Directorsand senior management, ensuring that A central theme of our current and future activity is our focus on adiverse pipeline exists.
The Committee is acutely aware of the importance of To report to the Board on the work of the Committee.
ensuring greater diversity of talent, particularly at senior levels, and the subject has been high on the agenda of both the Committee and the Board throughout the year.
We are making progress but there Priorities for 2019 remains a significant amount still to do on the initiatives we reported on last year, as described in more detail in this Report.
Recruitment of a Non-executive Director Chair of RiskCommittee.
Medium-term succession planning for the Chair IAIN CORNISH andNEDs.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee Diversity.
co. uk 112 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE C ON T I N U E D Given the topics discussed, the Committee invited the Non-executive Committee membership Directors who were not members of the Committee earlier in the Member Joined year, to join all or part of Committee meetings held in the year.
In addition, the following people attended to present on relevant topics IC Iain Cornish Chair 1 October 2011 during the year: the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer.
SJ Simon Jeffreys 4 December 2018 Chair succession BW Baroness Wheatcroft 1 January 2014 As part of its medium-term Board succession planning, the Committee selected Korn Ferry, a signatory to the Voluntary Code RY Roger Yates 8 October 2018 ofConduct for Executive Search Firms with regard to Board diversity, to facilitate a search for an additional Non-executive Director with Other members serving during 2018 Stepped down one of the criteria being a potential Chair successor.
The Committee was provided with a long-list of candidates and, following a detailed SB Sarah Bates 8 October 2018 review, concluded that there were no outstanding external candidates for the role of Chair of the Board.
Shortly thereafter, SarahBates informed the Board of her intention to retire, having served on the The Committees terms of reference set out the Committees role Board since 2004, and invited the existing Non-executive Directors to and authority and can be found on the corporate website at be considered for the role.
Following this, a sub-committee of the Committee, made up of non-conflicted Non-executive Directors, was formed and chaired Operation and performance by Baroness Wheatcroft.
This sub-committee approved a job of the Committee description for the Chair of the Board and reviewed whether external candidates should be considered and evaluated potential internal The Committee comprises the Chair of the Board and all the candidates.
The sub-committee concluded that the new Chair of the independent Non-executive Directors.
Following Sarah Bates Board should be appointed exclusively from internal candidates given retirement in October, Iain Cornish was appointed as Chair of the the appropriateness of their fit and experience.
The sub-committee Committee, and Roger Yates joined the Committee.
In light of the then met with the internal candidates, focusing on their suitability changes to the Code and the heightened focus on NED succession, and their capacity to meet the time commitments, before ultimately the Board agreed that all of the Non-executive Directors should concluding and recommending to the Board that Iain Cornish should be members of the Committee, and Simon Jeffreys was added to be appointed as Chair of the Board when Sarah Bates retired.
The Committees effectiveness has been reviewed by the Board as part of its overall assessment of its effectiveness see pages 92 and 93 and it remains satisfied that, as a whole, the Committee has the experience and qualification necessary to perform its role.
Committee activities during 2018 The Committee held six meetings during the year and the key topics considered at those meetings are summarised below.
MARCH APRIL JUNE Board and senior management Board composition and succession Selection of Board effectiveness review succession planning provider Diversity Director training and development MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT SB IC BW SB IC BW IC BW ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 113 experience and perspectives in avoiding group think.
However, Board and Executive succession where possible we want to promote from within, enabling our Continuity and stability of leadership has been a significant factor people to grow with the organisation and contributing to the Boards in St. JamessPlaces success, but the Board is also mindful of the aim to safeguard our unique culture.
To support this, leadership importance of our Non-executives maintaining their independence.
programmes have been established at all levels to enable the Over the next four years, all of the Non-executive members of organisation to identify and nurture our senior management and the Board will reach nine years tenure, a threshold seen by many Executive Directors of the future.
as a limit beyond which independence is difficult to maintain.
With this in mind the Committee is focused on establishing clear The Committee aims to establish clear succession plans for each plans to manage the significant transition in Non-executive Board Executive Board member, with the plans for each taking account of membership over the next few years.
the specific needs of the role.
When making appointments to those roles, our selection processes will take account of the specific role As stated above, we value continuity and stability, so in order to and the diversity and inclusion policy we have set, more details of ensure we maximise knowledge transfer and avoid disrupting the which can be found below.
effectiveness of the Boards performance, the existing Non-executive Directors are likely to continue on the Board alongside their successors Group governance for short periods.
The overlap will also ensure that incoming directors Recognising the rapid growth of the business and the evolving are able to seek counsel from long-standing colleagues who are regulatory environment, the Committee is keen to ensure that more familiar with the nuances and unique elements of our culture.
St. JamessPlace continues to have a sustainable and effective Increasing diversity, in general, at Board level will be an important governance framework to underpin its business model.
During the factor in the Committees planning, and the recruitment process will year, the Committee, working with the Executive Board, considered only employ the services of search firms which have signed up to the the Groups governance framework with the aim of clearly Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity, with at least 50% of articulating a scalable model that would apply across the Group candidates on the recruitment long lists being women.
whilst preserving the fundamental aspects of our vertically integrated During 2018, in addition to selecting the new Chair of the Board, the model, which has been a key component of our success.
Committee also recommended to the Board the appointment of The Committee considered a proposed governance model, based RogerYates as Senior Independent Director, and a number of changes upon a number of high-level principles which took account of best to the membership of the Boards principal Committees, detail of practice and requirements introduced by the Senior Managers and which are set out in the individual reports of those Committees.
Certification Regime and the Asset Management Market Study.
In the last couple of years the Committee has overseen the selection Going forward, the Committee will continue to closely monitor the of a new Chief Executive, a new Chief Financial Officer, a new governance model and oversee the relationships between the Boards Chief Risk Officer and a new Head of the Investment Division, and Committees and the boards and committees of Group subsidiaries.
remains focused on the development of a diverse pipeline of talent that will provide a broad range of options when selecting new senior managers and Executive Directors.
When planning for succession the Committee recognises the importance of introducing external JULY OCTOBER NOVEMBER Board succession Chair succession Board and senior management succession Board succession Non-executive Directors independence Board and Committee composition and time commitments Diversity Governance framework MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT MEMBERS PRESENT SB IC BW SB IC BW IC SJ BW ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 114 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE C ON T I N U E D The 2019 priorities have been brought together in a proposed action Diversity and inclusion plan under the following themes: 2018 saw the publication of the first gender pay gap reports and, as many commentators expected, the financial services sector posted figures significantly above the national average, with the average Theme Actions include gender pay gap of 22% lagging the national average of 9.7%.
Our Leadership Recognising the importance of this own gender pay gap report highlighted a greater disparity, which has agenda, Andrew Croft will join the underlined to the Board the scale of the effort that will be required DISG and the Exective Board will in the coming years.
As stated previously, the Board is clear that a have specific objectives in relation diverse and inclusive community will make our business stronger todiversity andinclusion.
and drive continued growth and innovation and, unless we take action, we risk not attracting and retaining the high-calibre people Talent development Introducing development support wewant and need to deliver our strategy.
for women at an earlier stage in their As mentioned above, the Committee is establishing a clear plan for careers to ensure we build a more the succession of Non-executive Directors, including the Chair, over diverse pipeline for senior roles.
the coming years, and this provides an ideal opportunity to address the Boards own gender balance and to increase its overall diversity.
Communication and Building an internal communications In respect of Non-executive Director and senior management development strategy to enable collaboration appointments, we have set out a number of targets and across diversity channels.
commitments to ensure that we promote diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive thought and personal strengths: Embedding in our Extending our focus on diverse new Directors only to be recruited through search firms which have employee life cycle shortlists for recruitment to include signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity: policies and practices more junior pipeline roles.
at least 50% women on NED recruitment long lists: External accreditation Building on the progress made signing up to HM Treasurys Women in Finance Charter in relation to gender diversity, achieved in 2018 : introducing benchmarks and 30% of senior positions held by women by 2023: establishing targets through theLGBT Great framework.
at least 33% women on senior recruitment shortlists: training and workshops: 90% maternity return rate: and The DISG leads and drives the diversity programme throughout wellbeing and flexible working.
the Group and the Partnership, implementing initiatives and The Committee has been closely monitoring our performance monitoring progress against agreed measures.
The DISG reports to against these targets which have been factored into Executive the Executive Board and ultimately to the St. JamessPlace Board, team bonus performance criteria and Board KPIs, and in 2018 through the Nomination Committee.
Progress against each of we began to see progress against them.
However, the Board, the the diversity objectives and initiatives set by the Board is regularly Executive Board and the Committee recognise that more can be reviewed by the Executive Board, the Nomination Committee and done to help the initiatives gather momentum and to broaden the the Board.
Clear sponsorship and accountability at Board and focus to diversity in its widest sense.
This has been reflected in the Executive Board level, underpinned by the alignment of specific Diversity Policy approved by the Board in 2018 and the adoption of performance targets via personal and strategic objectives, ensures a Strategic Approach and a set of priorities for 2019, as proposed by that there is a clear link between diversity and inclusion and our the Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group the DISG which is led by strategy.
Diversity and inclusion are also key themes in the 2025 Ian Gascoigne.
strategy the Board has been developing.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 115 During the year, Boardroom Review were selected to undertake Board effectiveness an independent evaluation of the Boards and its Committees The Committee has reviewed detailed analysis as to the significant effectiveness.
More detail on the process followed and output from other commitments of the Non-executive Directors and how much the review can be found on pages 92 and 93.
As well as providing time they were spending on the Companys business and affairs.
acomprehensive assessment of the Boards effectiveness, the review The Committee and the Board are satisfied that the Non-executive carried out by Boardroom Review has provided the Committee with Directors are able to, and do, commit sufficient time and attention a clear indication of strengths and weaknesses, including desirable to the Companys business.
In addition, the Committee reviewed skills, attributes and experience that will form the basis of future and approved an assessment of the independence of each of the succession plans.
Non-executive Directors, concluding that each of the Non-executive Directors demonstrated that they remained independent in character and judgement.
Engaging the workforce In early 2018 we developed an interactive workshop to help educate our employees on the business case for diversity and inclusion, as well as develop their awareness of unconscious bias.
The workshops begin with a structured introduction to set out our strategic approach to diversity and inclusion before opening up into a series of open discussions based around specific topics.
The topics are introduced through questions that aim to explore the regulatory framework for equality, and employees are presented with case studies that encourage them to appreciate and share their individual perspectives.
The workshop is delivered to teams who can later reflect and consider actions pertinent to their own area, enabling all employees to contribute to improvements in our inclusiveness.
