Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Composition of the Board as at 30 November 2018 Independent directors 44% Non-independent directors 44% 1 Non-executive Chairman independent 12% 4 4 Rob Hudson Ian Bull Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Appointed: September 2015.
Appointed: September 2014 as Non-executive Director, March 2018 as Senior Independent Director.
Key strengths: strong financial management, commercial and operational experience in financial Key strengths: strong financial management and services, information services and commercial operational experience in major commercial businesses Length of directors tenures property sectors.
3 yrs 44% 3-6 yrs 22% Experience: over 20 years experience in finance, most Experience: Chief Financial Officer of Parkdean Resorts 7-9 yrs 12% recently as Group Financial Controller at British Land plc Group from March 2016 to June 2018.
Joined  on graduating Financial Officer and main board Director at Ladbrokes then moved to Experian plc in 2000 where he held plc from 2011 to 2016 and Group Finance Director of a number of senior financial roles, including Global Greene King plc from 2006 to 2011.
Over 20 years 4 Finance Director of its Decision Analytics business and financial experience with companies such as Whitbread UK Finance Director.
plc, Buena Vista Home Entertainment Walt Disney Company and BT Group.
Former non-executive 1 External appointments: none.
director of Paypoint Ltd. A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
2 A N R Directors core area of expertise Property and operations including HR 78% Finance 22% 2 7 Andrew Eames Lesley James, CBE Changes to the Board General Counsel & Company Secretary Non-executive Director Richard Mully stepped down from the Board retired from the Board 30 November 2018 Appointed: November 2017. on 28 March 2018.
Experience: a lawyer with over 15 years of legal, Kay Chaldecott stepped down from the Board commercial and governance experience across a on 28 March 2018.
Key strengths: extensive executive remuneration and number of different sectors.
Joined St. Modwen from human resources experience and considerable board Lesley James retired from the Board Mothercare Plc where he was Group General Counsel experience across public, private, voluntary and on 30 November 2018. and Company Secretary Interim, having previously education sectors.
held various positions at Nomura International Plc Jamie Hopkins joined the Board on 1 March 2018.
Experience: HR Director for Tesco plc from 1985 including Co-Head of Corporate Legal and Danuta Gray joined the Board on 1 October 2018. to 1999 and a main board Director from 1994.
non-executive director for various companies including Key responsibilities: leads the legal, company Alpha Airports Group plc, Anchor Trust, Care UK plc, secretarial, compliance, risk and insurance functions A Member of the Audit Committee Inspicio plc, Liberty International plc and the West and is responsible for legal, compliance and governance Bromwich Building Society.
Former trustee of the N Member of the Nomination Committee activity across the Group.
Provides advice and support charity I CAN.
Awarded a CBE in 2003 for services to the Board and its Committees and oversees the R Member of the Remuneration Committee to the DTI Partnership at Work Assessment Panel.
Groups relationship with its external law firms.
A Companion of the Chartered Institute of Personnel H Member of the Group Safety, Health and Development.
& Environment Committee External appointments: none.
Denotes Committee Chairman N R St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 71 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board activities 2017 18 Strategy The Boards agenda and activities are planned to ensure Dedicated Board strategy day relating to future years appropriate time is dedicated to key areas and is further developed outlook for residential and industrial and logistics activity.
throughout the year to enable the Board to consider current Strategic plan update for the period 2019 to 2023 including developments, opportunities and risks, all in order to support scenario analysis.
the delivery of our strategy.
Following the conclusion of the strategy review in 2017, Operational and performance the Boards discussions and focus in the year centred around Updates and presentations from SLE members relating our key strategic objectives and their achievement.
to the key business project areas and transactions, The regular matters considered at each meeting include a such as asset management and St. Modwen Homes.
Chief Executive report on business performance which contains Approved various disposals as part of the strategic objective an executing strategy dashboard, from which the Board has to refocus the portfolio.
visibility of progress against the key strategic objectives as well as H&S performance updates.
Finance and regulatory reporting also feature as well as principal governance matters including policy People and culture reviews and a Board annual programme review.
Further details regarding our work on people can be found on pages 31 to 33.
Presentation of findings of diversity and inclusion exercise undertaken, with the Board considering the full recommendations for implementation.
Update on progress made against delivery of our people strategy and plan developed in 2017.
Consideration and approval of Group Safety, Health and Environment Committee.
Governance Review of matters reserved and Committees terms of reference.
Overview of management workstream and consideration of company initiatives that align to the new requirements of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Attendance at Board meetings Percentage attended Meetings attended in year in year out of Director Role Director since out of maximum possible maximum possible Mark Allan Chief Executive Nov 2016 8 8 100% Ian Bull Senior Independent Director Sep 2014 8 8 100% 1 Kay Chaldecott Former Non-executive Director Oct 2012 2 2 100% 2 Simon Clarke Non-executive Director Oct 2004 7 8 87.5% 3 Danuta Gray Chair Designate Oct 2018 2 2 100% Jenefer Greenwood Non-executive Director Jun 2017 8 8 100% 4 Jamie Hopkins Non-executive Director Mar 2018 7 7 100% Rob Hudson Chief Financial Officer Sep 2015 8 8 100% Lesley James Former Non-executive Director Oct 2009 8 8 100% 5 Richard Mully Former Senior Independent Director Sep 2013 1 2 50% Bill Shannon Chairman Nov 2010 8 8 100% 1 Kay Chaldecott stepped down from the Board on 28 March 2018.
2 Unable to attend September Board meeting due to a prior personal commitment.
3 Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director and Chair Designate on 1 October 2018.
4 Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director on 1 March 2018.
5 Unable to attend the Board meeting in January 2018 due to a prior business commitment and stepped down from the Board on 28 March 2018.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 72 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Q&A with Danuta Gray: looking forward to being part EFFECTIVENESS of St. Modwen MOVING THE BUSINESS FORWARD What attracted you to join St. Modwen as Chair Designate?
Q At a glance: Chair Designate, Danuta Grays induction It was a combination of the quality of the management team and Board members that I met during the A Meetings interview process, together with the clarity of strategy Internal: Board introduction: Ian Bull, Audit Committee Chair in markets with excellent opportunities for growth.
and Senior Independent Director: Jenefer Greenwood, A few months in, what are your impressions Remuneration Committee Chair: and other nonof St. Modwen?
There is a loyal, energetic team that is proud of HR: People strategy and people plan.
the Companys history and is committed to its core A Regions: To cover our objectives to grow residential business purpose.
Mark Allan and the executive team and housebuilding business and accelerate have achieved a great deal in a short period of time commercial development activity.
to refocus the strategy and were well on the path to implementation.
The Board is open with a fully St. Modwen Homes: Strategic objective for growth, supportive culture and is customer-focused.
the business plan and pipeline overview.
What is your opinion on the induction process?
Asset management and strategy and research: What was the most informative element of your Portfolio focus and capital discipline.
Q induction and what worked well?
External: External auditor KPMG, Internal auditors PwC, It has been a chance to get to know the business and Joint brokers JPMC and Numis and other advisers its people and provided opportunities to visit a variety of the Company.
A of sites and to meet with teams and key business Visits to: Residential development at Cofton Grange, partners.
The most informative element has been Longbridge and commercial developments sites spending time with people, helping me understand at Newport and Access 18, Avonmouth.
both the business and culture.
I plan to continue my induction, including meeting shareholders, in the coming months.
Induction of a new director In your opinion, what makes a Board effective The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is responsible and a company like St. Modwen successful Q for the induction of all new directors.
As part of the outturn of the for its shareholders?
2017 Board evaluation, the Company Secretary undertook a review A boardroom culture of trust, respect and openness and refresh of the director induction process to ensure that newly which enables challenge and constructive appointed directors obtained a good understanding of St. Modwen, A conversations.
Boards should be diverse in skills and the complexities of the business and our values, history and experience, helping management see around corners.
governance including the duties and responsibilities of directors.
Spending time in the business also helps improve the In addition to a formal induction pack, meetings are arranged with quality of decision making.
the executive directors for briefings on strategy and performance, St. Modwen has a clear strategy, excellent values and as well as SLE members to cover the key business areas such as, culture, invests in its people, has financial strength and St. Modwen Homes, asset management and commercial the team is ambitious.
By consistently delivering on the development across the regions as well as HR and strategy and strategy and meeting its commitments, St. Modwen research.
Visits to key sites within the Groups property portfolio will generate attractive returns for shareholders at the are scheduled and external training, particularly on matters relating same time as regenerating and building communities to membership of Board committees, is arranged as appropriate.
and creating a great place to work for our people.
Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity to meet newly appointed directors should they express a desire to do so.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 73 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Director development External appointments The Company is committed to the continuing development On appointment, directors are advised of, and requested to make, of directors in order that they may build on their expertise and the necessary time commitment required to discharge their develop an ever more detailed understanding of the business responsibilities effectively.
This time commitment is also outlined and the markets in which St. Modwen operates.
in the letters of appointment issued to non-executive directors.
Training and development needs are discussed with each director The Chairman reviews annually the time each director has by the Chairman as part of the annual individual performance dedicated to St. Modwen as part of their individual performance evaluation process and kept under review.
Development activities evaluations and is satisfied that their other duties and time include visits to sites within the Groups property portfolio, both as commitments do not conflict with those as directors of the a Board and individually.
This year the Board visited our industrial Company.
Similarly, the Board is content that the Chairmans development site at Tamworth and our residential development at external appointments do not impact on his ability to allocate Hilton, Derby.
Regular presentations to the Board by members of sufficient time to discharge his responsibilities to St. Modwen.
the SLE and senior management on key issues and major projects are also scheduled.
Conflicts of interest The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, The attendance by members of Board Committees at courses manage any conflicts of interest affecting directors.
This enables relevant to aspects of their respective Committee specialisms the Board to consider and, if thought appropriate, to authorise is also encouraged.
a directors actual or potential conflict of interest, taking into consideration what is in the best interests of the Company and Director independence and re-election to the Board whether the directors ability to act in accordance with his or her As previously announced, Bill Shannon will not be standing for wider duties is affected.
The Company Secretary maintains a re-election.
The Board considered Bill Shannon to be independent register of directors conflicts of interest, which includes details on his appointment as Chairman in 2011 and that he remains of any conditions applied on any authorisation given by the Board.
so until he steps down on 29 March 2019.
As also previously The register is reviewed periodically, and in respect of any changes announced, Lesley James retired from the Board on 30 November to authorisations as and when they need to be considered.
2018 and for the purposes of the Code, was considered for the period 19 October 2018 to 30 November 2018 as non-independent, having served on the board for more than nine years from the date of her first election 19 October 2009.
The Board resolved to extend Lesleys appointment beyond nine years for this short period 19 October 2018 to 30 November 2018 in order to support the induction of the Chair Designate, due to Lesleys extensive experience as a non-executive director of the Company.
During this period the Company remained compliant with B.
1.2. of the Code: half the Board, excluding the Chairman was independent.
Simon Clarke, a non-executive director, represents the interests of the Clarke family and has held the position for over nine years.
Consequently, the Board has determined that Simon Clarke is not independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Board considers that all other non-executive directors are independent and is not aware of any relationship or circumstance likely to affect the judgement of any director.
At the 2019 AGM, and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Danuta Gray will retire and offer herself for election.
All other directors apart from Bill Shannon will retire and offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
The explanatory notes set out in the Notice of AGM state the reasons why the Board believes that the directors proposed for re-election at the AGM should be re-appointed.
The Board has based, in part, its recommendation for re-election on its review of the results from the Board evaluation process and the Chairmans review of individual evaluations.
It has concluded that the performance of each director continues to be effective, that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles and that their respective skills complement one another to enhance the overall operation of the Board.
Notice of AGM Pages 188 to 193 St. Modwen Properties PLC 74 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Interests in voting rights To ensure its continued effectiveness, the Board undertakes Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FCAs performance evaluations.
6.2 states that an Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 is published on a externally facilitated Board evaluation should be undertaken regulatory information service and on the Companys website.
For St. Modwen this was last carried out in 2015.
As at 30 November 2018, the information in the table below had Following due consideration, the Board decided however, to been received in accordance with DTR 5 from holders of notifiable defer its external evaluation until later in 2019, once the Chair interests in the Companys issued share capital.
Designate has had sufficient time to establish herself in the role of Chairman.
The information provided was correct at the date of notification, however, the date the notification received may not have been Internal Board effectiveness review within the current financial year.
It should be noted that these The approach for the 2018 Board effectiveness review consisted holdings are likely to have changed since the Company was notified.
of one-to-one interviews between the Chairman and individual Notification of any change is not required until a notifiable threshold directors to discuss progress on the action plan arising from last is crossed.
years evaluation and to consider each individuals contribution and seek qualitative feedback around how the Board operates, Percentage namely 1 what should the Board start doing more of, 2 what Date of Nature of Total voting of total Shareholder notification holding rights voting rights should the Board do less of and 3 what should the Board continue to do to remain effective.
Simon Clarke and 28 09 17 Direct 15,175,196 6.82% close family interest Whilst the feedback of the Boards performance was generally members positive and directors agreed that good progress had been made in respect of the previous years review actions in terms Aviva plc 25 06 18 Direct 13,494,710 6.07% of areas of focus, the following themes were highlighted and interest will be implemented: Indirect 863,094 0.39% 1 to introduce horizon planning when developing strategic interest planning: Total 14,357,804 6.46% 2 to enhance the clarity of the three-year development Royal London Asset 21 11 17 Direct 15,579,630 7.01% pipeline for our strategic growth areas: and Management Ltd interest 3 to more closely monitor the corporate culture of the business.
TR Property 12 07 12 Direct 6,802,638 3.40% Investment Trust plc interest Results and conclusions are considered by the Board at its February meeting and a programme of actions and There were no changes to the interests in the voting rights notified recommendations is then implemented and progressed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 between 30 November in the year.
The good progress made against recommendations arising from the 2017 Board evaluation, include the following: Processes: meeting packs are issued at least five working days prior to Board and committee meetings and the Board is invited to ask questions or request more information.
Forward planning: reviews and discussion around a 12 month rolling agenda is now a standing meeting item and prioritisation and content agreed to ensure the effectiveness of meetings.
Greater visibility of the SLE and senior management, with individuals regularly presenting in relation to key areas of their respective business areas.
This enables the Board to consider the Groups depth of talent and assists in succession planning within the business.
Induction: as detailed on page 73, the Company Secretary has refreshed and developed the induction programme for new Board members.
People and culture: the Board receives updates on the people strategy, people plan and talent reviews to gain a greater understanding and visibility of the workforce and the developing workstreams relating to people diversity and inclusion and culture within the business.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 75 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Dialogue with investors The Board has a comprehensive investor relations programme STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE which aims to provide existing and potential investors with a means This corporate governance report, together with the Audit of developing their understanding of St. Modwen.
The programme Committee report, the Nomination Committee report, the Directors is split between institutional shareholders who, in aggregate, hold Remuneration report and the section entitled Risk management over 80% of the issued share capital in the Company, private provide a description of how the main principles of the UK shareholders and debt investors.
Feedback from the programme Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code have been applied of events is provided to the Board to ensure that directors develop by St. Modwen in the year ended 30 November 2018.
The Board an understanding of the views of the Companys major investors.
acknowledges the publication of the new UK Corporate Governance Code the 2018 Code.
The Board and its committees have already Programme of events taken steps to ensure compliance with the 2018 Code and will As part of the programme, the Chief Executive and CFO undertake be reporting on progress in the coming years.
The Corporate roadshows comprising both face-to-face meetings and conference Governance Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council calls with institutional investors, analysts and the media.
This year, and is available on its website at www.
the executive directors conducted a roadshow in the US to support the fostering of a US investor presence, in addition to the The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 roadshows following the half-year and annual results.
Details of The Code is not a rigid set of rules.
It consists of principles main and these, together with trading updates, are published and available supporting and provisions.
The Listing Rules require us to apply the on the Companys website at www.
Feedback main principles and report to shareholders on how we have done from analysts and institutional investors that took part was collated so.
The principles are the core of the Code and the way in which and reviewed by the Board, with the key messaging around the they are applied should be a central question for a board as it continuing delivery of our strategy welcomed, as well as a general determines how to operate.
consensus that there was a continuing good level of disclosure by the Company.
It is the Boards view that, throughout the financial year ended 30 November 2018, the Company has complied with and applied Additionally, the executive directors attended equity conferences all the Code principles, with the exception of those detailed below.
in London and Amsterdam to meet with investors.
Institutional Due to the forthcoming change in the Chairman of the Board, the investors were also given the opportunity to tour sites as part Company has not complied with provisions A.
6.3. of showcasing St. Modwens portfolio.
6.2 Evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 As in the prior year, a capital markets day was held for investors companies should be externally facilitated at least every three and analysts on 5 June 2018.
Held in the West and Wales region years.
The external facilitator should be identified in the annual to showcase the existing and planned development pipeline report and a statement made as to whether they have any other both commercial and residential and supplemented with a connection with the company.
strategy update presentation, investors were presented to, by both executive directors and senior management.
The strategy update Explanation: For St. Modwen, an external evaluation was last focused on demonstrating how St. Modwens earnings profile will undertaken in 2015.
The Board has determined not to undertake an grow with the build-out of the development pipeline.
A copy of the external evaluation for the financial year ended 30 November 2018 capital markets day presentation can also be found on the website.
and to defer this until later in 2019, to allow the Chair Designate The Company also continued to maintain regular dialogue with enough time to establish herself into the role of Chairman.
its key relationship lenders throughout the year.
An internal Board effectiveness review was however carried out, details for which are set out on page 75.
The Chairman is available to meet with institutional shareholders and investor representatives to discuss matters relating to strategy Code provision A.
4.2 Led by the senior independent director, and governance.
Private shareholders are encouraged to give the non-executive directors should meet without the chairman feedback and may communicate with the Board through the present at least annually to appraise the chairmans performance Company Secretary.
and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate: and Code provision B.
6.3 The non-executive directors, led by the Annual General Meeting senior independent director, should be responsible for performance The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to vote evaluation of the chairman, taking into account the views of on the resolutions proposed and to question the Board and the executive directors.
chairs of the Board committees on matters put to the meeting.
Explanation: As announced, Bill Shannon will be stepping down Resolutions for consideration at the 2019 AGM will be voted on by at the close of the AGM in March and has been working closely with way of a poll rather than by a show of hands as the Board believes Danuta Gray, the Chair Designate to ensure a smooth handover.
that this is a more transparent method of voting as it allows the Following due consideration by the Nomination Committee, votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those cast it was resolved not to undertake a performance evaluation of the by proxy.
The results of the poll vote will be published on the outgoing Chairman for the financial year ended 30 November 2018 Companys website, www.
as any feedback for implementation would not be fully actioned in the remaining period.
Further information can be found throughout the Our governance section on pages 66 to 113.
With the exception of disclosures required by Rule 7.2.
6, which are set out in the directors report, the corporate governance report contains the information required by Rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 76 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Attendees and contributors to the Committee by invitation : Chairman Bill Shannon Chair Designate 4 Danuta Gray Chief Executive Mark Allan Chief Financial Officer Rob Hudson Non-executive Director Simon Clarke Group Financial Controller and Treasurer Simon Redfern IN THIS REPORT, WE EXPLAIN THE Company Secretary and Secretary to the Committee Andrew Eames COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES AND ITS Head of Internal Audit KEY AREAS OF FOCUS IN THE YEAR Representatives from PwC AS OUR STRATEGY PROGRESSES.
External auditor Representatives from KPMG External valuers Representatives from Cushman & Wakefield and Jones Lang LaSalle External advisers Ian Bull Representatives from RSM risk management Chairman of the Audit Committee 4 Appointed as a non-executive director and Chair Designate with effect from 1 October 2018.
Attendance and composition of the Committee Principal duties delegated to the Audit Committee: All Committee members are non-executive directors and Financial reporting monitoring the integrity of the financial considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
statements, obtaining assurance that appropriate financial systems They have a range of commercial, financial and property sector and financial controls are in place, the implementation of new experience.
The Board is of the view that the Committee as a whole accounting standards and reviewing and challenging the has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company completeness and clarity of financial disclosures.
As a qualified accountant with extensive experience as a Finance Director, the Chair, Ian Bull appointed in March 2015 is also Internal controls and processes of risk management reviewing considered by the Board to have the relevant financial experience the Groups management of risk and its internal controls for to chair the Committee.
External audit overseeing the relationship with the external Meetings attended in % attended auditor and assessing its independence and objectivity, making year out of in year out of auditor appointment recommendations to the Board.
maximum maximum 1 Committee member Member since possible possible Internal audit assessing the remit of the internal audit function, Ian Bull Sep 2014 5 5 100% setting the internal audit plan and monitoring the responsiveness Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Group management to findings and recommendations resulting of Management Accountants from audits.
Jenefer Greenwood June 2017 5 5 100% The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its A Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors terms of reference, which are reviewed annually by the Committee and approved by the Board.
2 Jamie Hopkins March 2018 3 3 100% A member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 3 Richard Mully Sep 2013 2 2 100% 1 For full biographies of the Committee members see the Board biographies on pages 70 and 71.
2 Joined the Committee and the Board with effect from 1 March 2018.
3 Resigned from the Committee and the Board on 28 March 2018.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 77 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Dear Shareholders The Committee also continues to focus on those matters it considers to be important by virtue of their size, complexity, As Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the level of judgement required or impact on the financial statements.
Committees report for the financial year ended 30 November 2018.
These included reviewing the policy on the capitalisation of interest The report is intended to provide insight into the Committees and overheads and a deep-dive on some of the more complex activities in the year and sets out how we have performed our areas of revenue recognition in the Group, particularly accounting principal duties outlined above.
The Committee met five times as scheduled and has had another Both the external auditors KPMG and the internal auditors PwC busy year, ensuring that our approach is updated in the context have now completed their second years in post and have continued of the Group further progressing its strategy.
to gain a good understanding of the business.
As indicated in last years report, effectiveness assessments of both have been completed Key activities in 2017 18 now that they are established in their respective roles and the Assessment of the valuation of the Groups property portfolio results of these are discussed in this report on pages 83 and 84. as it evolves as the Groups strategy is executed, considering The Audit Committee, management and KPMG are committed to whether the valuation assumptions at the half and full year are ensuring that audit quality is delivered.
The Committee considered appropriate, independent and in accordance with the valuers several areas in this regard, including KPMGs action plan to address professional standards.
general and specific matters raised by the FRCs AQR team.
In terms Review of the Groups processes and progress to comply with of challenge: new accounting standards to be adopted over the coming years, the Committee and management have observed an in-depth in particular IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from audit and deep questioning: Contracts with Customers, IFRS 16 Leases and the amendments to IAS 40 Investment Property.
consistent with last year, specialists from KPMG on property valuations, tax and pensions have enhanced the core audit team: In tandem with the Board, monitoring GDPR and information security as part of an enhanced risk assurance framework, in in addition, KPMG major projects advisory team resources have particular monitoring the GDPR project and delivery in advance been applied to some of our key judgemental areas: and of the May 2018 effectiveness date.
management understands KPMG has used a larger number Evaluation of compliance requirements including the introduction of standardised work programmes to increase the robustness and roll-out of a new Group-wide policy in relation to the and documentation of audit procedures.
prevention of the facilitation of tax evasion, Criminal Finance Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members Act 2017 and the payment practices reporting requirements.
for their continued support and commitment to ensuring effective A review of the Group risk profile to ensure ongoing alignments governance through the Committees activities.
We were pleased to Group strategy and that it is a continually evolving operational to welcome Jamie Hopkins to the Committee following his and financial process embedded in the business.
appointment to the Board in March, with his commercial experience further strengthening the Committee, and thank Richard Mully for The Group has continued to undertake extensive work on the his contribution prior to leaving the Board in March.
I would also like Groups risk and compliance and its overall governance, which to thank the executive team for their continued positive engagement has in the year, led to the formation of the Risk, Assurance and on the matters within the Committees remit and contributions to Compliance Committee RACC which reports regularly to the Committee meetings.
Committee on its activities, enhancing the reporting to the Committee regarding strategic risks and the Groups risk profile I hope that the report provides a useful overview to the activities see pages 54 and 56 of section Risk Management.
of the Committee during the year.
Ian Bull Chairman of the Audit Committee 4 February 2019 St. Modwen Properties PLC 78 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information How the Committee operates Activities of the Committee during the year The Committee met five times during the year: the schedule Reporting included meetings with the external valuers to review and discuss The Committee undertook its primary responsibility in relation to their valuation reports for the half year and year end results.
the Groups financial reporting, to review with both management Meetings of the Committee generally take place just prior to a and the external auditor the integrity of the half-year and annual Board meeting to maximise the efficiency of interaction with the financial statements to satisfy itself and the wider Board that the Board.
The Committee Chairman reports to the Board, as a separate annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of understandable and provides the information necessary for relevance to the Board in the conduct of its work.
shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Further details on the directors As part of their main Board induction see page 73 for further considerations can be found in the statement of directors information, members of the Committee receive an appropriate responsibilities on pages 117 and 118. induction to ensure that they have an understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting, key aspects of the Companys accounting policies and judgements, and internal control and risk management arrangements, as well as the role of the internal and external auditors.
Ongoing training is undertaken as required or requested and this year a briefing session on accounting for development agreements was provided by the finance team, following the Committee proactively identifying that, in the context of the evolving strategy, this was an accounting area where more information would be insightful.
There is also the opportunity for Committee members to speak with various key employees within the Group as they present to the Committee on material issues and workstreams such as cyber security, GDPR, tax compliance and financial reporting.
At least once a year, usually preceding a Committee meeting, the Committee meets separately with the external audit Engagement Partner and with the Head of Internal Audit to give them the opportunity to discuss matters without executive management present.
The Committee Chairman also holds separate one-to-one meetings with the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Audit, the external audit Engagement Partner and the non-executive director committee members, typically ahead of Committee meetings, to better understand the issues and areas of concerns and to make sure adequate time is devoted to these matters at the subsequent meeting.
The Committee has direct access to the Head of Internal Audit, the external audit Engagement Partner and the external valuers outside of formal Committee meetings.
Whilst permitted to do so, no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, sought outside professional advice beyond that which was provided directly to the Committee during the financial year.
Committee evaluation The performance of the Committee was evaluated by way of an online questionnaire which was completed by all members of the Committee as well as those who attended Committee meetings.
Overall the results were positive, particularly in relation to how the Chairman facilitated debate and discussion during meetings and steered the Committee to a conclusion.
There was consensus that visibility and understanding of the Companys principal risks and risk management processes, together with oversight of business and financial reporting, had improved from the previous year.
Feedback received highlighted the following areas as requiring further consideration or improvement: 1 mix of skills and succession planning: and 2 oversight of whistleblowing procedures.
The Nomination Committee has a brief for current non-executive director recruitment to include being a member of the Audit Committee with appropriate finance and accounting experience.
Secondly, the Company Secretary is already undertaking an audit of the whistleblowing arrangements, the outcome of which will be reported to the Committee later in the year.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 79
