PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Brexit 11 Brexit Residual risk level Medium Risk trend New Strategic objectives Build a high quality industrial and logistics business Grow our residential and housebuilding business Leverage our regeneration reputation Impact Availability of goods and labour Business disruption Non-delivery of pipeline Commentary We have taken short-term actions to complement our longerterm strategy that will help ensure that we can mitigate the inherent risks of a disorderly Brexit.
Our longer-term strategy focused on growth sectors, reduced developments in London and reduced borrowings.
Our refinancing has increased headroom and provided flexibility.
Other short-term actions include the advance procurement of goods to safeguard the delivery of current developments along with liaison with our supply chain to ensure we can proactively respond to changes to supplier risk as required.
Mitigation Advance procurement of goods Liaison with supply chain Alternative suppliers identified and being liaised with accordingly St. Modwen Properties PLC 64 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information VIABILITY STATEMENT Assessment of prospects residential development land.
We have also extensively refinanced in the past two In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and taking years, meaning that we can allow our 100m convertible bond to mature in March into account the Groups current position and its principal risks for a period longer 2019 with no need to replace it, at which point our earliest facility maturity will be than the 12 months required by the going concern statement, a business plan and in December 2023, almost five years away.
downside case was prepared to assess the prospects of the Group, which was As in the prior year, we have used a three-year period for our business planning reviewed and considered by the Audit Committee and the Board.
In delivering exercise, which reflects the length of the development cycle and that our against our strategy, we have substantially fide-risked the business through development income streams are more forecastable and certain over the shorter realignment of our portfolio away from retail and other non-core assets and term.
This period allows for relative certainty in the modelling of future capital towards the industrial and logistics sector where we see stronger growth prospects, expenditure, asset recycling and development programmes planned, whilst also whilst materially reducing our debt.
Our business plan has been prepared in the reflecting the cash flows generated by the projects currently under development.
context of the Groups evolving strategy, outlined on pages 14 to 17 and its principal income streams, which are: Assessment of viability rental income from industrial and logistics income-producing properties, Reporting on the Companys viability requires the directors to consider those which have an average lease length of 3.8 years: principal risks that could impair the solvency and liquidity of the Company.
To determine those risks, the directors robustly assessed the Group-wide principal residential development, for which we have plans reaching out to 2021: and risks.
Through this assessment, the directors identified low probability, high loss major regeneration projects, which combine elements of the above two income scenarios with the potential magnitude to severely impact the Groups solvency streams.
Our strategic shift over the past two years sees us well placed for future growth, To assess the impact on the Groups viability, we have performed scenario analysis with secure income from our investment portfolio benefiting from strong sectoral based on the impact of a hard Brexit and considered through which of the principal growth in the industrial and logistics market, in particular with the growth of online risks detailed on pages 56 to 64 this would manifest itself.
In this scenario, we retail.
This is accompanied and strengthened by a regional residential market where the assume monetary policy would be supportive and interest rates to remain lower for fundamentals of insufficient supply combined with robust demand look set to persist, longer, similar to the response following the financial crisis and the EU referendum.
despite the uncertainties associated with the UKs exit from the European Union.
We would expect economic growth to fall and imported inflation to pick up on account of a fall in the value of sterling, although we would expect this to be Asset sales over the past two years have not only enabled us to halve our net debt, positive for exports.
We have made the following assumptions: but also to divest out of the more difficult physical retail market and London Risk Scenario Cash mitigation further analysis Changes in A graduated decrease 15% fall in house prices and a resulting 30% At current operating margins in our housebuilding business, a 15% fall in house economic fall in residential land values, noting that the Groups experience prices erodes our housebuilding profits, although the falls in all residential land and market during the global financial crisis of 2008-9 was a fall in the value would support future margins.
We would look to renegotiate land prices under conditions of the portfolio of 24% whilst the fall in UK house prices was c. 19%, development agreements and reduce overheads rather than expanding for growth.
and that our housebuilding volumes continue to benefit from Given the relatively short build period of c. six months, we can reduce our activity Help to Buy.
We assume a gradual recovery in prices after this back quickly.
Completions fell by c. 40% in the previous downturn and we would reduce to pre-Brexit levels by 2023, with margins beyond 2020 helped by activity accordingly, principally on our lowest margin sites.
the consequent lower cost base, similar to the post-2009 recovery for housebuilders.
A fall in industrial and logistics values similar to the house price At forecast debt levels, our portfolio could withstand an almost 40% fall in fall above, less severe than our 24% fall in the previous downturn, property values before our tightest covenant would be breached.
We assume new predicated on there being much less leverage in the wider property development lettings will stall for the remainder of 2019 as businesses take stock sector and interest rates being substantially lower, leading us to and assess their future space requirements, delaying the recovery in rental income conclude that the sector is unlikely to see the same amount of and leaving rental income broadly stable.
Our success in implementing our strategy forced selling.
to reduce exposure to the retail sector means that we have also reduced the risk of tenant failure.
Moreover, we have little exposure to central London, where Brexit risks would likely be highest, and unlike offices and retail, structural We would pause new starts during the remainder of 2019 and, subject to demand, growth drivers in industrial and logistics remain positive.
Again, restart activity at a lower level in 2020.
Our pipeline is expected to remain profitable we assume a gradual recovery beyond 2020. due to the substantial margin between our c. 8% yield on cost and industrial and logistics valuation yields.
We would also act to reduce forecast overheads.
Financial Increased funding requirement in the event of an economic With over 350m headroom, we have enough financial flexibility to absorb an downturn.
economic shock at a magnitude similar to the global financial crisis of 2008-9.
In addition to the above, we are investing 10m in forward ordering all construction The scenarios used are hypothetical and necessarily severe so as to create materials we import directly for six months of production in St. Modwen Homes outcomes that could threaten the viability of the Group, however, multiple control and all our 2019 industrial and logistics projects.
We have front-weighted our sales measures are in place to mitigate any such occurrences from taking place.
Based targets for the year in St. Modwen Homes, resulting in a 36% increase in our private on the results from this analysis and having considered the established controls order book versus the same point last year and we are maintaining a tight control for the risks and the available mitigating actions, the directors have a reasonable over discretionary spend.
We intend to maintain this vigilance until such time as expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its the economic outlook is more settled.
liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their detailed assessment.
In the above scenario, our 2019 and 2020 forecast adjusted EPRA earnings to which Our recent refinancing activity extends our banking facilities out to 2023 our dividend policy is linked would of course be impacted and the Board would and beyond, which provides further support to our viability assessment.
therefore consider the dividend in the light of the prevailing economic environment This longer-term assessment process supports the directors statements and outlook, whilst noting that our low debt balance provides us with the on both viability, as set out above, and going concern, set out on page 117. headroom to support our normal range of dividend options.
Approval of Strategic report The Strategic report for the year ended 30 November 2018 has been approved by the Board and was signed on its behalf by: Mark Allan Chief Executive 4 February 2019 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN THIS SECTION CREATING 67 Chairmans introduction to governance 68 Leadership The Board, our governance framework and VALUE how the Board operates 73 Effectiveness Nomination Committee report and evaluation THROUGH 75 Relations with shareholders 76 Statement of Compliance GOOD 77 Accountability Audit Committee report GOVERNANCE 90 Remuneration Directors Remuneration report 114 Directors report St. Modwen Properties PLC 66 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information OUR STRATEGY OUR OUR OUR OUR BUSINESS AND KEY OUR OUR OUR PURPOSE VALUES MARKETS MODEL PERFORMANCE APPROACH RISKS GOVERNANCE INDICATORS The executive governance framework was also refreshed during CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION the year to ensure that it remained fit for purpose and aligned with our strategy as we progress.
As a result the Risk, Assurance and TO GOVERNANCE Compliance Committee was established, to advise and support the Board and SLE with their responsibilities for the oversight of risk and to ensure that the business has the correct risk framework to identify, monitor and manage risk effectively.
A further three committees were established to monitor and review the business performance of each strategic focus area: industrial and logistics, residential and housebuilding and strategic and major projects.
For more information on our governance framework see pages 68 and 69.
Accountability During the year the Audit Committee has provided assurance to the Board with regular updates on the work it has undertaken in relation to the integrity of our financial reporting process, relationships with our external and internal auditors as well as the development of our risk management systems and internal control processes.
THE BOARDS FOCUS DURING Board changes The Board was delighted to welcome Danuta Gray as Chair THE YEAR WAS TO OVERSEE Designate in October and Jamie Hopkins as a non-executive DELIVERY OF OUR STRATEGY AND director in March 2018.
Details of the appointment process is set out on pages 87 and 88 of the Nomination Committee report.
ENSURE THAT OUR GOVERNANCE For an overview of Danutas experience of joining St. Modwen, ARRANGEMENTS WERE FIT FOR please see page 73.
Danuta will take over as Chairman following THE BUSINESS.
my departure at the conclusion of the AGM in March.
During the year, Lesley James, Kay Chaldecott and Richard Mully stepped down from the Board.
I am very grateful for their support Bill Shannon and wise counsel over the years.
Non-executive Chairman AGM The notice of meeting which includes the special business to be Dear shareholders transacted and an explanation of all resolutions to be considered As a Board, we are responsible for leading and setting the overall at the AGM is set out on pages 188 to 193. strategic direction of the business in addition to playing a pivotal role in shaping our corporate culture, defined by our values and Looking forward purpose.
In supporting the business in its delivery of the strategy, The Board completed a review of the 2018 Corporate Governance the Board focused much of its time during the year on strategic Code and assessed our governance arrangements to ensure that matters, particularly on considering our key growth areas: industrial they were in line with the new requirements.
We are pleased to and logistics and housebuilding.
For more details on the Boards report that in most cases the Company has already been agenda for the year and our key areas of focus, see page 72. progressing projects or has planned initiatives in the upcoming year so that we are well placed to comply with the 2018 Code We believe that, in order to have a sustainable business over the in FY19 20.
Where gaps have been identified, proposals are being long term and safeguard shareholders interests, it is vital to operate presented to the Board and its Committees for consideration in an open and transparent manner, supported by a strong and over the course of the upcoming year.
accountable executive team with a clear approach to governance throughout the business.
Our approach to governance is outlined in the following report which describes how we integrate into our business the main The Board were keen to enhance their role and oversight of health principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
and safety at Group level.
Although St. Modwen already has a well-established Safety, Health and Environment SHE Committee I look forward to seeing you in March, which will be my final AGM at executive level, the Board agreed to form a new committee to as Chairman.
further enhance the Groups approach to health and safety risk management.
The role of the Group SHE Committee is summarised on page 69.
The Nomination Committee recommended to the Bill Shannon Board the appointment of Mark Allan as the Chairman and Jamie Chairman Hopkins as a member of the Group SHE Committee, which was unanimously approved in November.
The Group SHE Committee 4 February 2019 will meet at least twice a year and officially commence its work in the coming months.
Its terms of reference will be approved at its inaugural meeting and will be made available on our website, www.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 67 The Board GOVERNANCE Responsible for the overall strategic direction and longterm success of the Company: includes oversight of the Groups activities, monitoring execution of strategy, reviewing performance, considering acquisition LEADERSHIP and disposal of large assets, ensuring that only acceptable risks are taken and that the GOVERNANCE appropriate people and resources are in place to FRAMEWORK deliver long-term value to shareholders and benefits The Board is supported by several Board committees, the Senior to the wider community.
Leadership Executive Committee and a variety of sub-committees Certain key matters requiring which are established to focus on specific areas of the business.
Board approval are set out in The governance framework illustrates how decisions are made, a formal schedule of matters where responsibilities fall and who is accountable for what and reserved which the Board to whom.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the reviews periodically.
Chairman, who is accountable for the leadership of the Board, and the Chief Executive, who manages and leads the business and its operations on a day-to-day basis.
Board committees The Board discharges some The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual of its responsibilities in relation programme of Board and committee meetings which are to audit and risk, board supplemented by visits to sites within the Groups property composition, succession portfolio.
In the year ended 30 November 2018, the Board planning, remuneration met formally on eight occasions, which included a visit to a and health and safety to its development site in Tamworth, a residential development at Hilton, principal Board committees.
Derby in April as well as a strategy day in July.
The Chairman also met the non-executive directors periodically without the executives present and maintained regular contact with the Chief Executive.
Full details of the committees Board meeting agendas are prepared collaboratively with input responsibilities and their from the Chairman, Chief Executive, CFO, members of the SLE and activities during the year can the Company Secretary.
Each agenda is carefully planned to ensure be found in the respective sufficient time is given to strategic matters and regular operational committee report.
and financial reports, as well as topical items and matters of interest or concern.
For directors unable to attend the meeting, their views are made Executive committees known to the Chairman ahead of each meeting.
Members of the The SLE is supported by SLE and certain advisers are invited to attend meetings in relation several committees in the to specific agenda items.
Meetings are typically set well ahead performance of its duties and of time to minimise any clashes with non-executive directors other in discharging its governance commitments as far as possible.
Board papers and meeting minutes responsibilities.
The authority, are sent to directors in a timely manner to enable sufficient time membership, responsibilities to consider and review ahead of meetings and are circulated of the executive committees via a secure online portal.
and how they operate are set out in their respective terms The Company Secretary supports the Chairman and Chief Executive of reference.
in fulfilling their duties and is available to all directors for advice, support and assistance.
He is responsible for keeping the Board regularly updated on governance matters.
He attends and maintains a record of the matters discussed and approved at Board and committee meetings and facilitates effective information flows between the Board, its committees, non-executive directors and Performance and Pipeline the SLE on which he also sits.
Review Committees Three committees established recently to review and monitor performance for each strategic business stream: Industrial and logistics Residential and housebuilding Strategic and major projects Board governance framework Executive governance framework St. Modwen Properties PLC 68 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Chairman Senior Independent Non-executive Chief Executive Director directors Leads the Board effectively A sounding board for the Work with and challenge Leads the business and is and sets appropriate agendas Chairman the executive directors in the responsible for day-to-day execution of the strategy management Maintains a culture of openness Acts as a trusted intermediary and constructive challenge for the other directors if required Offer an independent external Leads senior management between the NEDs and the SLE perspective and bring wide and via the SLE Provides an additional varied commercial expertise Ensures effective dialogue channel of communication Chief Financial between St. Modwen and for shareholders its shareholders Officer Develops and implements financial strategy and policies Responsible for the preparation and integrity of financial reporting Audit Nomination Remuneration Group Safety, Health & Committee Committee Committee Environment SHE Committee Oversees financial and narrative Leads board appointment Develops the remuneration reporting process and its composition policy Oversees effectiveness of ensuring a balance of skills, the Groups SHE strategy Reviews property portfolio Sets executive directors, experience and diversity valuations Chairman and Company Supports management in Reviews executive succession Secretarys remuneration maintaining a robust health Assesses internal control and plans arrangements and safety culture risk management systems Approves long-term Reviews impact of any changes Reviews external audit performance objectives in regulation to business processes and effectiveness and awards of auditors Reviews key health and safety risks See Audit Committee report See Nomination Committee report See Directors Remuneration for more information for more information report for more information The Committee will report on its on pages 77 to 85. on pages 86 to 89. on pages 90 to 113. work in the next annual report.
Investment Senior Leadership Committee Executive Committee Reviews and approves or Focuses on delivery of strategy recommends for approval any Monitors operational and significant transactions above financial performance an agreed financial value to the Board Oversees assessment and control of risk Reviews prioritisation and allocation of resources Risk, Assurance and Corporate Social People Matters Safety, Health & Compliance Committee Responsibility CSR Group Environment SHE Committee Committee Oversight of the development Oversees the development and implementation of risk and implementation of people Develops Group CSR strategy Develops Group SHE strategy management initiatives and activities and co-ordinates Identifies and monitors key implementation Reviews key Group strategic Enhances strategic people SHE risks risks objectives Reviews progress against Co-ordinates effective CSR objectives Assesses mitigation strategies, Reviews progress against the communication of SHE matters considering the Companys people plan across the Group appetite for risk See Risk management section See Corporate social responsibility See Our people section See page 37 for more information on pages 54 to 64. section on page 30. on pages 31 to 33. on the Group H&S strategy.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 69 THE BOARD Bill Shannon Danuta Gray Mark Allan Non-executive Chairman Chair Designate and Independent Chief Executive Non-executive Director Appointed: November 2010 as Non-executive Appointed: November 2016 as Chief Executive Director and Chairman Designate, March 2011 Designate, December 2016 as Chief Executive.
Appointed: October 2018. as Non-executive Chairman.
Key strengths: extensive knowledge and experience Key strengths: extensive operational and board Key strengths: significant management and board of the property sector combined with strong experience in both executive and non-executive roles experience across retail, leisure, financial services operational leadership and financial and strategic in FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 companies across the global and property sectors.
telecommunications and IT, consumer and financial services sectors.
Experience: a 30 year career at Whitbread plc which Experience: joined St. Modwen from The Unite Group culminated in his appointment as a main board director plc where he had been Chief Executive since 2006.
Experience: over 26 years experience in the for 10 years until his retirement in 2004.
Former He moved to Unite in 1999 from KPMG and held a telecommunications industry: including as Chief Chairman of AEGON UK plc, Gaucho Grill Holdings Ltd number of financial and commercial roles in the Executive of Telefnica O2 in Ireland from 2001 to 2010 and Pizza Hut UK Ltd, and former non-executive business, including Chief Financial Officer from 2003 to and Chair from 2010 to 2012.
A former Non-executive director of The Rank Group plc, Barratt Developments 2006.
A qualified Chartered Accountant and a member Director of PageGroup plc, Paddy Power Betfair plc, plc and Matalan plc.
A qualified Chartered of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Aer Lingus Group plc and Irish Life & Permanent plc.
Has also served on several remuneration committees.
External appointments: Trustee director on the Prior to Telefnica O2, held various senior positions External appointments: Deputy Chairman and Senior non-executive board of Anchor Hanover Group.
Independent Director of LSL Property Services plc, H Non-executive Chairman of Johnson Service Group plc External appointments: Non-executive director of and Council Member of the University of Southampton.
Direct Line Insurance Group plc, Senior Independent Director at Aldermore Group plc, a non-executive N R director of Old Mutual plc and a Defence Board Member of the Ministry of Defence People Committee.
N R Simon Clarke, DL Jenefer Greenwood, OBE Jamie Hopkins Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Appointed: October 2004.
Key strengths: strong commercial and management Key strengths: extensive knowledge of the retail Key strengths: strong commercial, strategic experience in both farming and property and extensive and regeneration sectors of the real estate industry and operational management skills and significant knowledge of the Companys history.
combined with significant board-level experience.
knowledge and experience of asset management services and the real estate sector.
Experience: the son of Sir Stanley Clarke, the founder Experience: over 30 years experience in the real estate and former Chairman of St. Modwen, he represents sector with companies such as Hillier Parker now CBRE Experience: joined the board of Workspace Group plc the interests of the Clarke family, one of the Companys and Grosvenor Ltd, where she was Director of Sales in 2010 and appointed Chief Executive Officer in 2012. largest shareholders, on the Board.
Former Deputy and Lettings, Great Britain and Ireland before retiring Formerly served as Chief Executive and then a Chairman of Northern Racing plc and Director and in 2012.
Currently serves the board of Assura plc and non-executive director of Mapeley plc from 2002 until Vice-Chairman of The Racecourse Association Ltd. LiveWest Homes.
Formerly served on the board of 2010 and a director of Chester Properties from 2009 An Honorary Doctor of Staffordshire University.
The Crown Estate and has chaired the National Skills to 2012.
Also acted as Investment Cirector of Delancey Academy for Retail.
Awarded an OBE in 2014 for Estates and Savills between 1990 to 2002.
A member External appointments: Chairman of Dunstall services to the UK Real Estate Industry and for of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Trustee of Racing Welfare and Chairman voluntary services to young people.
Member of Staffordshire Universitys External appointments: Chief Executive Officer of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
External appointments: Non-executive director for A N R H both Assura plc and LiveWest Homes, member of the supervisory board of INTERNOS Global Investors Ltd and trustee of the Ernest Cook Trust.
A N R St. Modwen Properties PLC 70 Annual report and financial statements 2018
