AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Accounting policies and practices The Committee devoted significant time to reviewing the prospective impacts of the adoption of new and amended accounting standards following initial reviews in the previous year as outlined below: Standard Expected impact Committees work IFRS 9 Limited to the calculation of bad debt provision A review of both the proposed revised bad debt provisioning policy Financial to focus on expected losses past, present and and the impact of the new standard on each of the categories Instruments expected future experience rather than of financial instruments has taken place in the year with the incurred losses.
Given the low level of bad debt impacts being a fide minimis increase in the bad debt provision.
provision held, the impact of this change will The timetable for adoption of the standard was also reviewed not be material.
and will be adopted for the year ending 30 November 2019.
IFRS 15 Has the potential to result in different revenue A review of the detailed exercise undertaken by the accounting Revenue from recognition profiles, particularly on certain teams to consider the impact of the change in standard across all Contracts with construction contracts and non-standard revenue streams has taken place.
This review indicated that there Customers elements of housebuilding part-exchange would be no material impact on profits post-adoption and an and social housing sales.
immaterial c. 3m based on 2018 part-exchange volumes increase in revenue and cost of sales in respect of part-exchange sales in St. Modwen Homes.
The timetable for the adoption of the standard was also reviewed and will be adopted for the year ending 30 November 2019.
IFRS 16 Recognition of right of use assets and A review of the detailed exercise undertaken by the finance team Leases associated liabilities for operating leases, to consider the impact of the change across all leases has taken limited to certain premises, motor vehicles place.
The Group currently leases certain office buildings, some and office equipment.
IT equipment and company cars and vans.
It is anticipated that the Group will recognise an asset and liability of c. 6m on adoption.
The Group income statement impact, in summary, is to replace an operating lease charge with depreciation and an interest element, the latter of which will be recognised on an actuarial basis rather than on a straight-line basis.
This will result in a small portion of the overall income statement charge being recognised in earlier years of the lease term than it would have been under the current standard.
Further to the Committees review the standard was agreed to be transitioned for the financial year ending 30 November 2019, one year earlier than required, as the Committee felt that adopting this change in the same year as the other accounting standard changes discussed above would make the accounts more understandable.
Amendments Minor changes in the wording of the definitions A review of the detailed papers prepared by the finance team to to IAS 40 of the change in use evidence criteria required consider the impact of this change has taken place.
The standard Investment to be met in order to make transfers to and from has been adopted early for the year ended 30 November 2018 Property investment properties and inventories.
as is permitted as it assists in making our accounts more fair, balanced and understandable by better aligning the treatment of existing property assets with new property assets and its impact is as disclosed in the accounting policies note.
Following due consideration and discussion with KPMG, there is no significant impact of any of the other standards applicable for the year.
The Committee was satisfied that the accounting policies and related disclosure in this annual report were appropriate.
Accounting policies See pages 132 to 139 St. Modwen Properties PLC 80 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Significant judgements and financial issues The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application to the Group financial statements.
The significant financial issues considered by the Committee in relation to the 2018 financial statements, and how these were addressed, are outlined below.
The Committee discussed these with the external auditor and, where appropriate, how these were addressed by KPMGs audit scope.
Independent auditors report See pages 119 to 127 Significant issues Work undertaken by and conclusion of the Committee Valuation of investment properties see note 9 to the Group The Committee adopts a formal approach by which the valuation financial statements process, methodology, assumptions and outcomes are reviewed The valuation of St. Modwens investment properties is a key and robustly challenged.
This includes separate review and scrutiny determinant of the Groups balance sheet and performance by both management and the Committee of the external as well as impacting executive variable remuneration.
valuations, with members of the Committee discussing the valuations both prior to and at Committee meetings in January Although the portfolio valuation is conducted externally by and June.
This approach also includes the external auditor which independent valuers, the nature of valuation estimates is inherently is assisted by its own specialist team of chartered surveyors who subjective and requires significant judgements and assumptions are familiar with the valuation approach and UK property market.
These include market comparable yields, estimates in relation to future rental income, void periods, purchaser The external auditor has direct access to the Groups valuers and costs, together with remediation and other costs to complete, their remit extends to investigating and confirming that no undue some of which require management input.
These judgements influence has been exerted by management in relation to the and assumptions are also subject to market forces and will valuations.
The external auditor reviewed the valuations and change accordingly.
process and reported its findings to the Committee.
Both Cushman & Wakefield and Jones Lang LaSalle submit their valuation reports to the Committee as part of the half year and full year results process.
Both valuers were asked to present their valuation reports at Committee meetings and highlight any significant judgements made or disagreements between themselves and management and with KPMG: there were none.
Against the backdrop of the continued uncertainty created by the UKs vote to leave the EU, the Committee also considered the extent to which this could impact the property investment and lettings market in terms of both activity and liquidity.
Based on the degree of oversight and challenge applied to the valuation process, the Committee concluded that the valuation as a whole had each been conducted appropriately, independently and in accordance with the valuers professional standards.
Net realisable value of inventories see note 13 to the Group The Committee reviewed managements assessment as to whether financial statements any provision was required against the carrying value of inventory, The Groups inventories, comprising property held for sale, property either at Group level or within any joint venture arrangements.
under development and land held under option with a view to sale, The assessment process undertaken to determine net realisable is of significant value.
value was considered by the Committee, which included ongoing All inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value monitoring by management as well as detailed reviews at both the and appropriate allowances are made for remediation and other half and full year.
Cushman & Wakefield also provided valuations costs to complete.
For the majority of inventories held, for certain sites, typically new-build units not yet sold.
management rely on their own internal procedures for assessing The Committee concluded that the judgements and estimates the carrying value of inventory.
This requires a number of estimates made by management were in line with Group policy, reasonable to be made, in respect of forecast revenue and costs, from which and appropriate and were supported by KPMG.
a profit margin over the development is derived and which also provides an indication of the recoverability of the inventory.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 81 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant issues Work undertaken by and conclusion of the Committee Accrual for costs in relation to the NCGM site see note 11 to the During 2018, the Committee has: Group financial statements reviewed a report from the external expert to form a view on the The project to procure a market at the Nine Elms site for CGMA appropriateness of the liability included for the NCGM project: is a significant project which is forecast to continue for a number of years.
assessed and discussed the sensitivities, risks and opportunities inherent in the project highlighted in this report: Our share of the costs of the market construction are forecast pre-discounting to be c. 145m but this assessment is an area assessed the range of outcomes discussed in this report to satisfy of significant accounting judgement for the Group.
itself that the liability has been struck at a level which fairly represents the likelihood of the sensitivities, risks and The Group engages with external experts to form a reliable estimate opportunities materialising: and of the costs associated with the project.
reviewed KPMGs findings in relation to the level of contingency The Committee concluded that the liability recognised in respect of this project was appropriate.
Other issues Work undertaken by and conclusion of the Committee Tax provisions see note 6 to the Group financial statements Based on reports from management and PwC the Groups tax As a property group, tax and its treatment is often an integral part compliance advisor, the Committee has continued to assess the of transactions undertaken by St. Modwen.
The outcomes of tax risk of challenge and individual judgements made by management treatments are recognised by the Group to the extent the outcome in respect of tax provisions and was satisfied that the mitigating is reasonably certain.
actions and resultant level of tax provisioning at both the full year and half year remained appropriate.
Where tax treatments have been challenged by HMRC, or management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, or new Further disclosure on taxation is set out in note 6 to the Group tax regulation is introduced, provision is made for the best estimate financial statements and in the Group accounting policies on of potential exposure based on the information available at the pages 132 to 139. reporting date.
Assessment of alternative performance measures APMs Fair, balanced and understandable As part of its key considerations for the half year and full year When reporting to shareholders, the Board aims to present a fair, results disclosures the Committee carefully considered the set of balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys APMs used and that the reasons for choosing them remained valid, position and performance and is assisted in this by the Committee.
being that they continued to represent the main performance This responsibility covers the annual and half-year reports and measures used by internal and external stakeholders to measure the financial statements, as well as trading updates and other financial execution of the businesss strategy and for remuneration purposes.
For further details see notes 2 and 3 to the Group financial The Committee is satisfied and has confirmed to the Board that statements.
the 2018 annual report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for Viability and going concern shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, The Committee provides advice to the Board on the form and basis business model and strategy.
underlying both the going concern statement and the longer-term In reaching this view, the Committee considered the robust and viability statement.
well-established processes in place to prepare the annual report As both statements rely on forecasts, the Committee considered and financial statements which includes: the assumptions and judgements applied by management in regular debates and challenge with senior management and with relation to the timing of receipts and payments, the ongoing both external and internal auditors around clarity, tone and items availability of funding and covenant compliance, noting the positive of judgement: outcome of refinancing activity during both this year and the last.
The Committee also reviewed the appropriateness of the downside revisions to regulatory requirements and governance principles, scenario analysis, including the specific impacts on income and including the Code, are continually monitored and, as explained valuations of a hard Brexit, prepared by management, including on page 66, the Board and senior management are making the assumptions made.
preparations under the 2018 UK Corporate Code: and The Committee concluded that it remains appropriate for the focused review and approval of specific sections by the relevant financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis Board Committees, supported by regular reporting by Board and recommended the viability statement to the Board.
Committees to the Board on their activities.
Ultimately the Board takes into account the view of the Committee Going concern statement when undertaking its own review of the document prior to giving See page 117 final approval.
Viability statement See page 65 St. Modwen Properties PLC 82 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information External auditor KPMG, as the external auditor, is engaged to express an opinion on Non-audit fees the Companys and wider Groups financial statements.
Their audit In order to safeguard the objectivity, independence and includes a review and test of the systems of internal control and effectiveness of its external auditor, the Company continues data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to adopt a policy on the provision of non-audit services by to express an audit opinion on them.
With Bill Holland of KPMG its external auditor or any member of the external auditors as the Senior Audit Partner, the Company has complied with the network to the Group and, having refreshed the policy in the Statutory Services for Large Companies Market Investigation previous year, the Committee reviewed the current policy in Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit place, and approved it.
In accordance with the policy non-audit Responsibilities order 2014.
Under the current regulations, the services fall into one of three categories: Company will be required to retender the audit by no later than 1. where the involvement of the external auditor is prohibited: 2026 2027 and the Committee will keep the external auditor tender under review and act in accordance with any changes 2. where the external auditor can be engaged, subject to the in regulations and best practice relating to the tenure of the approval of the Chief Financial Officer: and external auditor.
3. where the external auditor can be engaged, subject to Audit Committee approval.
External audit Audit plan In categories 2 and 3, the skills and experience of the external The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with auditor to perform the required services, the effect of the the external auditor and, in respect of the audit for the financial non-audit services on the audited financial statements, the year ended 30 November 2018, KPMG presented their second year potential impact of each project on the external auditors audit plan to the Committee in October.
The plan outlined the independence and objectivity and the resulting ratio of proposed audit approach and took into account the key changes non-audit to audit fees will be taken into consideration.
The in the business and the impact of these on materiality, scope and non-audit fees paid to KPMG in the year totalled nil 2017: nil risk assessment and included details of the enhanced auditor representing 0% 2017: 0% of the fees paid for audit and reporting requirements see the independent auditors report audit-related assurance services.
During the year, KPMG has adopted a firm-wide policy that The audit fee, which was approved by the Committee, was felt will prohibit the provision of non-audit services to FTSE350 to be appropriate given the scope of work, whilst not adversely companies where they are the auditor.
affecting KPMGs independence or objectivity.
The Committee is advised of all non-audit services provided, Independence irrespective of value, and reviews all expenditure annually.
Save The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the for any fees payable for non-audit work required to be carried objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
In respect out by the external auditor by law or regulation, the policy limits of KPMGs second year as external auditor, the Committee the total fees payable to the external auditor for non-audit has reviewed: services to no more than 70% of the average of the audit fees paid in the last three consecutive financial years for the audit the confirmation from KPMG that they maintain appropriate of the Company and the Group.
internal safeguards in line with applicable professional standards: Further information on the remuneration of the external auditor the mitigating actions taken by the Committee in seeking to can be found in note 4b to the Group financial statements.
safeguard KPMGs independent status, including the operation of policies designed to regulate the appointment of former Effectiveness of external audit process employees of the external audit firm and the extent of non-audit As reported last year, the Committee resolved to complete services provided by the external auditor: and a first effectiveness review of KPMG as external auditor in 2018 the skills and experience within the audit team.
when sufficient time had passed with them in post appointed December 2016.
Taking the above review into account, the Committee concluded that KPMG was objective and independent in their role as external auditor.
The Committee considered KPMGs experience and expertise, the extent to which the audit plan had been met, its robustness and perceptiveness with regard to key accounting and audit judgements and the content of its audit reports.
As part of its considerations, the Committee reviewed a report on the audit firms own internal quality control procedures together with the policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 83
