Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Committee key Committee Chair shown in green A Audit Committee Board of Directors Ri Board Risk Committee V Brand, Values and Conduct Committee N Governance and Nomination Committee C Board Financial Crime Risk Committee R Remuneration Committee Appointed: October 2016 and Bank of Spain, where he rose to be Counsellor and the Director of the Jos Vials 64 Group Chairman in December 2016 the Deputy Governor.
Jos has held Monetary and Capital Markets Group Chairman many other board and advisory Department and was responsible Experience: Jos has substantive positions including Chair of Spains for the oversight and direction of experience in the international Deposit Guarantee Fund, Chair of the the IMFs monetary and financial regulatory arena and has exceptional International Relations Committee at sector work.
He was the IMFs chief understanding of the economic, the European Central Bank, member spokesman on financial matters, financial and political dynamics of of the Economic and Financial including global financial stability.
our markets and of global trade, Committee of the European Union, and a deep and broad network of During his tenure at the IMF, and Chair of the Working Group on decision-makers in the jurisdictions Jos was a member of the Plenary Institutional Investors at the Bank for in our footprint.
and Steering Committee of the International Settlements.
Jos joined Financial Stability Board, playing a Career: Jos began his career as an the International Monetary Fund key role in the reform of international economist and as a member of the IMF in 2009 and stepped down financial regulation.
faculty at Stanford University, before in September 2016 to join Standard N spending 25 years at the Central Chartered PLC.
He was the Financial Committees: Appointed: June 2015 bank from 2004 until he stepped asset management rm, where he Bill Winters, CBE 57 down in 2009.
Bill was invited to was chairman and CEO.
He stepped Group Chief Executive Experience: Bill is a career banker be a committee member of the down on appointment to the with significant frontline global Independent Commission on Standard Chartered PLC Board.
banking experience and a proven Banking, established in 2010, to track record of leadership and Bill was previously a non-executive recommend ways to improve financial success.
He has extensive director of Pension Insurance competition and financial stability in experience of working in emerging Corporation plc and RIT Capital banking.
Subsequently, he served markets and a proven record in Partners plc.
He received a CBE as an adviser to the Parliamentary spotting and nurturing talent.
Commission on Banking Standards Career: Bill began his career with and was asked by the Court of the External appointments: Bill is an JP Morgan, where he went on to Bank of England to complete an independent non-executive director become one of its top five most independent review of the banks of Novartis International AG.
senior executives and later co-chief liquidity operations.
In 2011, Bill Bill Winters leads the executive officer at the investment founded Renshaw Bay, an alternative Management Team Appointed: July 2014 Vodafones Northern Europe, Treasury, Group Corporate Andy Halford 59 Middle East and Africa region, Development, Group Investor Group Chief Financial Of cer Experience: Andy has a strong and later the chief financial officer Relations, Property and Supply finance background and deep of Verizon Wireless in the US.
experience of managing complex He was a member of the board international businesses across External appointments: Andy is of representatives of the Verizon dynamic and changing markets.
senior independent director and Wireless Partnership.
Andy was chair of the audit committee at Career: Andy was finance director at appointed chief financial officer Marks and Spencer Group plc.
East Midlands Electricity plc prior to of Vodafone Group plc in 2005, joining Vodafone in 1999 as financial a position he held for nine years.
Andy Halford also sits on the director for Vodafone Limited, the As Group Chief Financial officer Management Team UK operating company.
Andy was at Standard Chartered, Andy is later appointed financial director for responsible for Finance, Corporate Appointed: January 2014 and in wealth management, institutional External appointments: Naguib Naguib Kheraj 54 Deputy Chairman in December 2016 asset management and investment is Chairman of Rothesay Life, a Deputy Chairman banking.
Naguib was also a Barclays specialist pensions insurer.
He was Experience: Naguib has signi cant nominated non-executive director of appointed a member of the Board banking and finance experience.
ABSA Group in South Africa and of of Governors of the Wellcome Trust Career: Naguib began his career at First Caribbean International Bank.
with effect from 1 January 2019 Salomon Brothers in 1986 and went He also served as chief executive and is a member of its investment on to hold senior positions at Robert officer of JP Morgan Cazenove.
He is also a member Fleming, Barclays, JP Morgan of the Finance Committee of the Naguib is a former non-executive Cazenove and Lazard.
Over the Oxford University Press.
Naguib director of NHS England and served course of 12 years at Barclays, spends a substantial amount of as a senior adviser to Her Majestys Naguib served as group finance his time as a senior adviser to the Revenue and Customs and to the director and vice-chairman and in Aga Khan Development Network Financial Services Authority in the UK.
various business leadership positions and serves on the boards of various entities within its network.
A Ri R N C Committees: 57 DIRECTORS REPORT Board of Directors Appointed: January 2016 He joined Citibank in 1976 as a significant turbulence.
David David Conner 70 management trainee and went on to stepped down as chief executive Independent Non-Executive Experience: David has significant hold a number of Asia-based senior officer in 2012 but remained as a Director global and corporate, investment management roles, including chief non-executive director on the board and retail banking experience, executive officer of Citibank India and of OCBC Bank, before leaving the strong risk management credentials managing director and marketing group in 2014. and an in-depth knowledge of manager at Citibank Japan, before Asian markets.
External appointments: David is a leaving Citibank in 2002.
David joined non-executive director of GasLog Ltd Career: David spent his career in the OCBC Bank in Singapore as chief Ri A N C Committees: financial services industry, living and executive officer and director in 2002.
David is also a member of the Combined working across Asia for 37 years, He implemented a strategy of growth US Operations Risk Committee of for both Citibank and OCBC Bank.
and led the bank through a period of Standard Chartered Bank Appointed: September 2013 and development director of Ronson plc External appointments: Christine Christine Hodgson 54 Senior Independent Director in before joining Capgemini in 1997, is chair of Capgemini UK plc, sits on Senior Independent Director February 2018 where she held a variety of roles the board of The Prince of Wales including chief financial officer for Business in the Community and is Experience: Christine has Capgemini UK plc and chief chair of The Careers & Enterprise strong business leadership, executive officer of technology Company Ltd, a governmentfinance, accounting and services for North West Europe.
backed company established to technology experience.
Christine was previously a trustee help inspire and prepare young Career: Christine held a number of MacIntyre Care and was a people for the world of work.
of senior positions at Coopers & non-executive director of R A V N C Committees: Lybrand and was corporate Ladbrokes Coral Group plc.
Appointed: April 2015 After completing the Stanford first international chief executive Jasmine Whitbread 55 Executive Program, Jasmine set up officer, a position she held until she Independent Non-Executive Experience: Jasmine has signi cant one of Oxfams first regional ofces, stepped down in 2015.
Director business leadership experience as managing nine country operations well as first-hand experience of External appointments: Jasmine in West Africa, later becoming operating across our markets.
is chief executive of London First, a international director responsible for business campaigning group with a Career: Jasmine began her career Oxfams programmes worldwide.
mission to make London the best in international marketing in the Jasmine joined Save the Children in city in the world to do business.
technology sector and joined 2005, where she was responsible She is also a non-executive director Thomson Financial in 1994, for revitalising one of the UKs most of BT Group plc.
becoming managing director of established charities.
In 2010, she V R N the Electronic Settlements Group.
was appointed as Save the Childrens Committees: Appointed: April 2015 markets sector leader, with Exchange Group plc.
She received Gay Huey Evans, OBE 64 responsibility for establishing a an OBE for services to financial Independent Non-Executive Experience: Gay has extensive market-facing division for the services and diversity in 2016.
Director banking and financial services supervision of market infrastructure, experience with signi cant External appointments: Gay oversight of market conduct and commercial and UK regulatory is a non-executive director of developing markets policy.
ConocoPhillips and Bank Itau 2005 to 2008, Gay held a number BBA International plc, is deputy Career: Gay spent over 30 years of roles at Citibank, including head chair of the Financial Reporting working within the financial services of governance, Citi Alternative Council and in January 2019 was industry, the international capital Investments, EMEA, before joining appointed a non-executive member markets and with the financial Barclays Capital where she was vice of HMTreasury.
Gay spent seven years chair of investment banking and C Ri with the Financial Services Authority investment management.
She was Committees: from 1998 to 2005, where she was previously a non-executive director director of markets division, capital at Aviva plc and the London Stock Appointed: January 2013 at Ping An, including chief financial Association and a director of Dr Louis Cheung 55 officer, before becoming group The Friends of Cambridge Independent Non-Executive Experience: Louis has a wide president in 2003 and executive University in Hong Kong.
Director breadth of knowledge and director from 2006 to 2011.
R experience of financial services, Committees: particularly in a Greater China External appointments: Louis is context.
managing partner of Boyu Capital Advisory Co, a China-focused private Career: Louis was a global partner equity investment rm, independent of McKinsey & Company and a non-executive director of Fubon leader in its Asia Pacic financial Financial Holding Company.
He is institutions practice prior to joining also a Fellow and Council Member Ping An Insurance Group in 2000. of the Hong Kong Management Louis worked in several senior roles Standard Chartered 58 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Appointed: July 2014 Asia from 2001 to 2006.
Byron was External appointments: Byron Dr Byron Grote 70 chief financial of cer of BP plc from is senior independent director of Independent Non-Executive Experience: Byron has broad 2002 until 2011, subsequently serving Anglo American plc, a non-executive Director and deep commercial, financial as BPs executive vice president, director of Tesco PLC and is deputy and international experience.
corporate business activities, from chairman of the supervisory board at Career: From 1988 to 2000, Byron 2012 to 2013 with responsibility for Akzo Nobel NV.
He is also a member worked across BP in a variety of the groups integrated supply and of the European Audit Committee commercial, operational and trading activities, alternative energy, Leadership Network.
He was appointed shipping and technology.
Byron was A R Committees: as chief executive of BP Chemicals a non-executive director at Unilever and a managing director of BP plc in plc and Unilever NV before stepping 2000 and had regional group-level down in 2015. accountability for BPs activities in Appointed: November 2017 Economy in the Nigerian government, advisory positions including Lazard Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala 64 a position she held until 2015. and the Asian Infrastructure Independent Non-Executive Experience: Ngozi has signi cant During her time in government she Investment Bank and holds advisory Director geopolitical, economic, risk and spearheaded Nigerias successful panel and chair positions at a range development experience and programme to obtain debt relief and of global institutions, including expertise at a governmental and is credited with developing reforms charitable foundations, nonintergovernmental level.
that helped improve governmental governmental organisations and Career: A development economist, transparency to stabilise and grow intergovernmental organisations.
Ngozi spent 25 years working at the the Nigerian economy.
Ngozi chairs the African Risk World Bank in various positions.
After Capacity, a weather based insurance External appointments: Ngozi was leaving in 2003, she served as the organisation of the African Union.
appointed an independent director of Finance Minister of Nigeria from 2003 She is a member of the G20 Eminent Twitter, Inc in 2018.
She returned to the World Persons Group reviewing Global Chair of GAVI, the Global Alliance for Bank in 2007, serving as a Managing Financial Governance and is an Vaccines and Immunisations and Director until 2011, when she was ambassador of the Open Co-Chair of Lumos Global, an off-grid appointed to the role of Minister of Government Partnership.
She also holds a Finance and Coordinating Minister of V number of prestigious international Committees: Appointed: February 2019 spent over 30 years at KPMG and introduction of the Hong Kong and Carlson Tong 64 was actively involved in the work of Shanghai Shenzhen stock connect Experience: Carlson has a deep Independent Non-Executive the securities and futures markets, schemes and the mutual recognition understanding and knowledge of Director serving as a member of the Main of funds between the mainland and operating in mainland China and Board and Growth Enterprise Market Hong Kong.
Hong Kong and has signi cant Listing Committee of the Stock experience of the financial services External appointments: Carlson Exchange of Hong Kong from 2002 sector in those markets.
sits on various Hong Kong SAR to 2006 Chair from 2004 to 2006. government bodies, including as a Career: Carlson joined KPMG UK in After retiring from KPMG in 2011, non-executive director of the Airport 1979, becoming an Audit Partner of he was appointed a non-executive Authority of Hong Kong, Chair of the the Hong Kong rm in 1989.
He was director of the Securities and Futures University Grants Committee and a elected Chairman of KPMG China Commission, becoming its Chair member of the Hong Kong Exchange and Hong Kong in 2007, before in 2012 until he stepped down in Fund Advisory Committee.
becoming Asia Paci c Chairman and October 2018.
He oversaw a number A Ri C a member of the global board and of major policy initiatives during his Committees: global executive team in 2009.
He term as the Chair including the Liz Lloyd, CBE 47 Appointed: Liz was appointed Head of Public Affairs, responsible Group Company Secretary Group Company Secretary in for coordinating the Groups policies January 2016.
Liz will step down as and positioning on all political and Group Company Secretary in 2019. regulatory matters.
In 2013, she was appointed Chief Executive officer of Liz joined Standard Chartered Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania, in 2008, initially within Group a position she held until October Compliance, focused on regulatory 2015.
She received a CBE in 2008. risk and regulatory relationships, before being appointed as Group 59
