DIRECTORS REPORT Management Team Management Team Bill Winters, CBE 57 Andy Halford 59 Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Of cer Appointed: Tracy was appointed Legal and Compliance, Human & Americas in October 2015 and Tracy Clarke 52 CEO, Europe & Americas in October Resources, Corporate Affairs and CEO of the Private Bank in March Regional CEO, Europe & Americas 2015 and assumed her additional Brand & Marketing.
Tracy was an independent and CEO, Private Bank role of CEO, Private Bank in March CEO, Europe and Americas she is non-executive director of Sky plc 2018. responsible for the Corporate & from 2012 until it was taken private Institutional Banking, Private and in 2018.
Career: Tracy joined Standard Retail Banking businesses in the US, Chartered in 1985 and has held a External appointments: Tracy Latin America, UK, Jersey, Germany, number of roles in Retail, Commercial is an independent non-executive France, Nordics and Turkey.
and Corporate Banking, in addition to director of Inmarsat plc and sits Group functions, both in the UK and Tracy was appointed as a Director of on the board of England Netball.
From 2013 until 2015, Standard Chartered Bank in January She is also a director of City UK.
Tracy led a broad portfolio including 2013, became Regional CEO, Europe Appointed: Simon joined the Group client segments.
Simon joined External appointments: Simon Simon Cooper 51 as CEO, Corporate & Institutional HSBC in 1989 and held a number of is a member of the advisory board CEO, Corporate, Commercial & Banking in April 2016 and assumed senior roles there, including deputy of the Lee Kong Chian School InstitutionalBanking the additional responsibility for chairman and chief executive of cer, of Business.
Middle East and North Africa: chief executive of cer, Korea: and head of Career: Simon was previously Corporate and Investment Banking, group managing director and chief Singapore.
He has signi cant executive of Global Commercial experience in the areas of corporate Banking at HSBC.
He has extensive finance, corporate banking and experience across our markets and transaction banking.
Appointed: Ben was appointed commercial and retail banking in the Innovation and Strategic Benjamin Hung 54 Regional CEO, Greater China & UK and Hong Kong.
From 2008 to Development and the Financial Regional CEO, Greater China & North Asia, on 1 October 2015 2014, he was the CEO of Standard Services Development Council.
North Asia and CEO Retail and CEO, Retail Banking on Chartered Bank Hong Kong Ltd.
He also sits on the Exchange Fund Banking and Wealth Management 30 November 2017.
He assumed Ben was previously a board member Advisory Committee and is a his additional role as CEO, Wealth of the Hong Kong Airport Authority, member of the General Committee Management in March 2018. the Hong Kong Hospital Authority of the Hong Kong General Chamber and a Council Member of the Hong of Commerce and Hong Kong Career: Ben was previously CEO for Kong University.
Trade Development Council Belt the Greater China Region.
He joined and Road Committee.
Standard Chartered in 1992 and has External appointments: Ben is a held a number of senior management member of the Hong Kong Chief positions spanning corporate, Executives Council of Advisers on Appointed: Judy was appointed spent 18 years at Citibank, where her Judy Hsu 55 Regional CEO, ASEAN & South Asia last role was the Regional Head of Regional CEO, ASEAN & on 1 June 2018.
Retail Bank Asia Paci c and Country South Asia Business Manager for International Career: Judy joined Standard Personal Banking in Singapore.
Chartered in December 2009 as the Global Head of Wealth External appointments: Judy is a Management.
She led the strategic member of The Institute of Banking advancement of the Groups wealth and Finance Council and sits on the and bancassurance business for Board of Workforce Singapore and six years before assuming the role the Board of Urban Redevelopment of CEO, Singapore in 2015.
joining Standard Chartered, Judy Standard Chartered 60 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Appointed: Sunil was appointed the Head of Corporate Banking External appointments: None Sunil Kaushal 53 Regional CEO, Africa & Middle East in UAE, Head of Originations and Regional CEO, Africa & on 1 October 2015 Client Coverage in Singapore, MiddleEast Global Head, Small and Medium Career: Sunil has nearly 30 years Enterprises and New Ventures in of banking experience in diverse Singapore and Chief Executive markets across Asia and Africa & Of cer of Standard Chartered Bank Middle East and has been with Taiwan Ltd and Regional CEO, Standard Chartered for more than South Asia and CEO, India.
Before 20 years, holding senior roles across joining Standard Chartered in 1998, the Wholesale and Consumer Bank.
Sunil held various banking positions Sunil has rich experience across the at a number of leading international Groups footprint, having served as financial institutions.
Appointed: David joined the Group Career: David has held various External appointments: David is David Fein 58 in September 2013 as Group General senior roles in the US Government, Vice Chair of the United for Wildlife Group General Counsel Counsel, advising the Board and including as US Attorney for the Financial Taskforce and a member the Court of the Bank on all material District of Connecticut and as of the board of directors of Guiding legal matters.
He oversees Standard Associate Counsel to the President.
Eyes for the Blind Chartereds Legal function, Group He has extensive experience ghting Corporate Secretariat and Shared financial crime and a track record Investigative Services.
David also of forming and supporting publicserves as Chairman of Seeing is private partnerships.
Believing, the Groups agship philanthropic effort dedicated to eliminating avoidable blindness.
Appointed: Michael joined Standard He has held various CIO roles Dr Michael Gorriz 58 Chartered as Group Chief Information within the Daimler group and has Group Chief Information Of cer Of cer in July 2015. spent many years working across our footprint.
Career: An industry award winner, Michael joined from Daimler AG External appointments: None where he was most recently vice president and CIO with responsibility for the smooth operation of all Daimler systems and the management of IT projects globally.
Appointed: Tanuj joined the Career: Prior to joining the Group, Tanuj Kapilashrami 41 Management Team as Group Head, Tanuj built her career at HSBC.
Group Head, HR HR in November 2018.
She joined She has worked across multiple the Group in March 2017 as Group HR disciplines in many of our Head, Talent, Learning and Culture footprint markets Hong Kong, and took on additional responsibility Singapore, Dubai, India and London.
as Global Head, HR, Corporate, External appointments: None Commercial and Institutional Banking in May 2018.
Appointed: Tracey was appointed Financial Services Authority FSA in practice, having spent time in law Tracey McDermott, CBE 49 Group Head of Corporate, Public and 2001 where she held a number of rms in the UK, USA and Brussels.
Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Regulatory Affairs in March 2017: senior roles, including: Director of She received a CBE in 2016.
Brand & Marketing, Conduct, Brand & Marketing was added to her Supervision and Authorisations, and External appointments: Tracey Financial Crime and Compliance portfolio in December 2017.
In March Director of Enforcement and Financial is a board member of UK Finance: 2018, she assumed her additional Crime.
Tracey also served as a Board a member of the International role of Group Head, Compliance Member of the FSA from April 2013, Regulatory Strategy Group Council: which expanded to include Conduct as a member of the Financial Policy and an Honorary Professor at the and Financial Crime in January 2019.
Committee of the Bank of England, Centre for Commercial Law Studies, and as Non-Executive Director of the Career: Prior to joining the bank, Queen Mary University of London.
Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA Tracey served as Acting Chief from September 2015 to June 2016.
Executive of the Financial Conduct Prior to joining the FCA, Tracey Authority FCA from September 2015 worked as a lawyer in private to June 2016.
She joined the then 61 DIRECTORS REPORT Management Team Management Team continued Appointed: Mark was appointed Career: Before joining Standard acquisition by HSBC.
Other roles at Mark Smith 57 Group Chief Risk Of cer and a Chartered, Mark was the chief risk HSBC included chief operating Group Chief Risk Of cer director of Standard Chartered Bank of cer Europe, Middle East and of cer, Global Corporate & in January 2016.
Mark is responsible Africa and global head, Wholesale Institutional Banking.
He has worked for managing Credit, Market and Credit and Traded Risk for HSBC.
He in London and Hong Kong.
Operational Risk across the Group had a long and successful career at External appointments: None and ensuring the broader risk HSBC, having joined Midland Bank framework is effective.
as a graduate trainee prior to its David Whiteing 50 Appointed: David joined Standard technology.
He is a highly External appointments: David is Group Chief Operating Of cer Chartered as Group Chief Operating experienced executive with a track an independent director of Silicon Of cer in September 2018. record of delivering cultural Quantum Computing Ltd. transformation in Australia and Career: David joined Standard overseas.
Prior to joining the CBA Chartered from the Commonwealth Group in 2013, David was Vice Bank of Australia CBA where he President of Enterprise Systems at was the Group CIO, responsible for BP in the UK.
He is a former all of the technology and operations Accenture technology and operations teams of the Group and for delivering partner with extensive transformation the Groups strategic pillar of world experience.
leading application of operations and Pam Walkden was Group Head, HR during the year before stepping down from the Management Team in November 2018, and retiring from the Group on 31 December 2018.
Tanuj Kapilashrami was appointed Group Head, HR in November 2018.
Doris Honold stepped down as Group Chief Operating Of cer on 9 January 2019 and from the Management Team on 15 January 2019.
