Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Corporate governance Board and committee structure Audit Committee Read more Oversight and review of financial, audit, internal financial control and on page 72 non-financial crime issues.
Standard Chartered PLC Board Risk Committee Read more Oversight and review of principal risks including credit, traded, capital and The Board is collectively responsible for on page 77 liquidity, operational, country, reputational, compliance, conduct, information the long-term success of the Group and for and cyber security and financial crime risks.
ensuring leadership within a framework of effective controls.
The Board sets the strategic Brand, Values and Conduct Committee direction of the Group, approves the strategy Read more Oversight of the Groups brand, culture, values, conduct, government and and takes the appropriate action to ensure that on page 83 regulatory relations, sustainability priorities and processes for managing the Group is suitably resourced to achieve its reputational risk.
The Board considers the impact of its decisions and its responsibilities to all of the Groups stakeholders, including the Governance and Nomination Committee Read more Groups employees, shareholders, regulators, Oversight and review of the Board and executive succession, overall Board on page 85 clients, suppliers, the environment and the effectiveness and corporate governance issues.
communities in which it operates.
Read more Board Financial Crime Risk Committee on page 89 Oversight and review of all financial crime compliance matters.
Remuneration Committee Read more on page 91 Oversight and review of remuneration, share plans and other incentives.
Group Chief Executive Management Team The Management Team comprises the Group Chief Executive and Responsible for the management of all aspects of the Group Chief Financial officer: four regional CEOs: client segment the Groups businesses, developing the strategy CEOs: and our global function heads.
It has responsibility for in conjunction with the Chairman and the Board, executing the strategy.
Details of the Groups Management Team and leading its implementation.
The full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, along with written terms of reference for the Boards committees, can be viewed at sc.
com termsofreference A clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board decisions and Code compliance Board and terms of reference for each of its responsibilities, and delegation committees are reviewed annually against The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the of authorities industry best practice and corporate Code and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance The Board discharges some of its Code contained in Appendix 14 of the Hong Kong governance provisions and guidance, Listing Rules HK Code are the standards against responsibilities directly and delegates certain including the Prudential Regulation Authority which we measured ourselves in 2018.
While the other responsibilities to its committees to PRA Supervisory Statement on Board UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 2018 assist it in carrying out its function of ensuring Responsibilities.
With the exception of the Code does not come into effect until 1 January independent oversight and stewardship.
Governance and Nomination Committee, 2019, where practical to do so we have applied Details of the main topics discussed by the which in line with best practice is chaired by some provisions of the 2018 Code early.
committees in 2018 can be found in this the Group Chairman, and the Board Financial The directors are pleased to con rm that report.
The Board also delegates authority for Crime Risk Committee, which includes three Standard Chartered PLC the Company complied the operational management of the Groups external adviser members, all of the Board with all of the provisions set out in the Code and business to the Group Chief Executive for committees comprise solely independent the HK Code for the year under review.
further delegation by him in respect of non-executive directors who bring a diversity Throughout this corporate governance report matters that are necessary for the effective of skills, experience and knowledge to the we have provided an insight of how governance day-to-day running and management of the discussion, and play an important role in operates within the Group and our application of business.
The Board holds the Group Chief supporting the Board.
the principles set out in the Code and HK Code.
Executive accountable in discharging his The Group con rms that it has adopted a code The full schedule of matters reserved for the delegated responsibilities.
of conduct regarding directors securities Board, along with written terms of reference transactions on terms no less exacting than for the Boards committees can be viewed at required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong sc.
Having made speci c enquiry of all directors, the Group con rms that all directors have complied with the required standards of the adopted code of conduct.
Copies of the Code and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code can be found at frc.
