Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Corporate governance Board and committee structure Audit Committee Read more Oversight and review of financial, audit, internal financial control and on page 72 non-financial crime issues.
Standard Chartered PLC Board Risk Committee Read more Oversight and review of principal risks including credit, traded, capital and The Board is collectively responsible for on page 77 liquidity, operational, country, reputational, compliance, conduct, information the long-term success of the Group and for and cyber security and financial crime risks.
ensuring leadership within a framework of effective controls.
The Board sets the strategic Brand, Values and Conduct Committee direction of the Group, approves the strategy Read more Oversight of the Groups brand, culture, values, conduct, government and and takes the appropriate action to ensure that on page 83 regulatory relations, sustainability priorities and processes for managing the Group is suitably resourced to achieve its reputational risk.
The Board considers the impact of its decisions and its responsibilities to all of the Groups stakeholders, including the Governance and Nomination Committee Read more Groups employees, shareholders, regulators, Oversight and review of the Board and executive succession, overall Board on page 85 clients, suppliers, the environment and the effectiveness and corporate governance issues.
communities in which it operates.
Read more Board Financial Crime Risk Committee on page 89 Oversight and review of all financial crime compliance matters.
Remuneration Committee Read more on page 91 Oversight and review of remuneration, share plans and other incentives.
Group Chief Executive Management Team The Management Team comprises the Group Chief Executive and Responsible for the management of all aspects of the Group Chief Financial officer: four regional CEOs: client segment the Groups businesses, developing the strategy CEOs: and our global function heads.
It has responsibility for in conjunction with the Chairman and the Board, executing the strategy.
Details of the Groups Management Team and leading its implementation.
The full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, along with written terms of reference for the Boards committees, can be viewed at sc.
com termsofreference A clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board decisions and Code compliance Board and terms of reference for each of its responsibilities, and delegation committees are reviewed annually against The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the of authorities industry best practice and corporate Code and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance The Board discharges some of its Code contained in Appendix 14 of the Hong Kong governance provisions and guidance, Listing Rules HK Code are the standards against responsibilities directly and delegates certain including the Prudential Regulation Authority which we measured ourselves in 2018.
While the other responsibilities to its committees to PRA Supervisory Statement on Board UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 2018 assist it in carrying out its function of ensuring Responsibilities.
With the exception of the Code does not come into effect until 1 January independent oversight and stewardship.
Governance and Nomination Committee, 2019, where practical to do so we have applied Details of the main topics discussed by the which in line with best practice is chaired by some provisions of the 2018 Code early.
committees in 2018 can be found in this the Group Chairman, and the Board Financial The directors are pleased to con rm that report.
The Board also delegates authority for Crime Risk Committee, which includes three Standard Chartered PLC the Company complied the operational management of the Groups external adviser members, all of the Board with all of the provisions set out in the Code and business to the Group Chief Executive for committees comprise solely independent the HK Code for the year under review.
further delegation by him in respect of non-executive directors who bring a diversity Throughout this corporate governance report matters that are necessary for the effective of skills, experience and knowledge to the we have provided an insight of how governance day-to-day running and management of the discussion, and play an important role in operates within the Group and our application of business.
The Board holds the Group Chief supporting the Board.
the principles set out in the Code and HK Code.
Executive accountable in discharging his The Group con rms that it has adopted a code The full schedule of matters reserved for the delegated responsibilities.
of conduct regarding directors securities Board, along with written terms of reference transactions on terms no less exacting than for the Boards committees can be viewed at required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong sc.
Having made speci c enquiry of all directors, the Group con rms that all directors have complied with the required standards of the adopted code of conduct.
Copies of the Code and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code can be found at frc.
hk respectively 63 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Board composition, roles and attendance in 2018 Attendance AGM Scheduled Responsibilities Chairman 8 8 Responsible for leading the Board, the development of the Groups J Vials culture and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Promotes high standards of integrity and governance across the Group and ensures effective communication between the Board, management, shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Deputy Chairman 8 8 Provides support and guidance to the Chairman as required and, N Kheraj in coordination with the Chairman, acts as an ambassador for the Board and Group in its relationships with governments, regulators, staff, and clients.
Deputises for the Chairman at Board, general shareholder, or other meetings when the Chairman is unable to attend.
Senior Independent Director Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and discusses concerns C M Hodgson 8 8 that are unable to be resolved through the normal channels or where such contact would be inappropriate with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Chairs the Governance and Nomination Committee when considering succession of the Chairman.
Executive directors Group Chief Executive 8 8 Responsible for the management of all aspects of the Groups W T Winters businesses, developing the strategy in conjunction with the Chairman and the Board and leading its implementation.
Group Chief Financial Of cer 8 8 Responsible for Finance, Corporate Treasury, Group Corporate A N Halford Development, Group Investor Relations, Property and Supply Chain Management functions.
Independent non-executive directors Independent non-executive director: Provide an independent O P Bhatt 8 8 perspective, constructive challenge, and monitor the performance Dr L Cheung 8 8 and delivery of the strategy within the risk appetite and controls set by the Board.
D P Conner 8 8 Dr B E Grote 8 8 1 Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 7 8 G Huey Evans, OBE 8 8 Dr N Okonjo-Iweala 8 8 J M Whitbread 8 8 As Senior Independent Director, Christine Hodgson is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved or for which the normal channels would be inappropriate.
She may be contacted via the Group Company Secretary at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London EC2V 5DD 1 Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE was unable to attend the Board meeting held on 13 December 2018 due to a prior arranged business commitment In 2018, the Group held one general meeting, our Annual General Meeting, on 9 May 2018, which was attended by all of the directors.
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala was proposed for election and all other directors were proposed for annual re-election.
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and all other directors were successfully elected re-elected.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are quite distinct from one another and are clearly fide ned in detailed role descriptions which can be viewed at sc.
com roledescriptions It was announced on 18 February 2019 Independence of directors that Dr Han Seung-soo would retire from The Chairman is committed to ensuring the Board on 23 February 2019 having that the Board comprises a majority of served as an independent non-executive independent non-executive directors.
It was also announced In determining whether a non-executive that Om Bhatt would step down from the director is independent, the Board considers Board, after six years as an independent each individual against the criteria set out non-executive director, with effect from in the UK Corporate Governance Code 23 February 2019. and the Hong Kong Listing Rules, and also All of the directors will stand for re-election considers their contribution and conduct at the 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM at Board meetings, including how they with the support of the Board.
demonstrate objective judgement and independent thinking.
On 18 February 2019, it was also announced that Carlson Tong would join the Board as The Board considers all of the nonan independent non-executive director with executive directors to be independent of effect from 21 February 2019.
Carlson will Standard Chartered and has concluded that stand for election at the 2019 AGM.
there are no relationships or circumstances likely to impair any individual non-executive directors judgement.
Standard Chartered 64 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information I L S A M U B O G O M G A E U A S L M Board meetings To enable the Board to use its time most privately with the Senior Independent Director Sir Iain Lobban, who is engaged by the Board effectively, it maintains a scheduled and the independent non-executive directors to act as an independent adviser to the programme of meetings and a rolling agenda.
on a number of occasions to assess their Board and its committees on cyber security There is sufficient exibility in the programme views and discuss matters arising.
and cyber threat management, attended a for specic items to be added to any number of Board and committee meetings to Performance against delivery of the agreed particular agenda to ensure that the Board provide an independent and current view on key financial priorities is reviewed at every can focus on key matters at the appropriate the Groups progress in this area.
The Board meeting with particular reference to the time.
The Board also schedules a number continues to nd Sir Iains input challenging detailed Group management accounts.
of informal sessions, during which Board and practical.
Sir Iains appointment was The Group Chief Executive and Group members discuss areas of the business, renewed at the end of 2018 for a further Chief Financial officer comment on current strategy and the external environment with 12-month term.
trading, business performance, the market, members of the Management Team and or Detail of the key activities considered by the Board employees and regulatory and external external advisers.
Generally, members of in 2018 is set out on page 66.
Some of these items developments at each meeting, and the Management Team and other senior were considered at each meeting and others present comparative data and client insight.
reviewed periodically throughout the year.
executives are invited to attend part of the In addition, the Group Chief Risk officer meetings to ensure effective interaction with periodically attends meetings to update the Board.
During the year, the Chairman met the Board on the key risks.
To the extent applicable, information required by paragraphs 13 2 c, d, f, h and i of Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is available in Other disclosures on pages 126 to 132.
Board activities in 2018 In 2018, the Board held eight scheduled meetings, including three meetings held outside the UK in Mumbai, Lagos and Seoul.
2018 January February March April May June July August September October November December The key activities considered by the Board during 2018 are set out on page 66.
The Board recognises the value of maintaining close relationships with its stakeholders, understanding their views and the importance of these relationships in delivering our strategy and the Groups purpose.
The Groups key stakeholders and their differing perspectives are taken into account as part of the Boards discussions.
Delivering value for shareholders and other key stakeholders Our clients perspective Our regulators perspective Differentiated products, Robust capital base strong preferred bank liquidity position Digitally enabled and Standards for conduct positive experience Driving Our communities perspective Our shareholders perspective commerce and the environment Strong performance and prosperity Positive social and economic through Increased income, pro t and contributions our unique return on investment Strong community outreach and diversity sustainability programme Our suppliers perspective Our employees perspective Open, transparent and consistent tender process Fair and competitive remuneration Willingness to adopt supplier Engaged and diverse workforce driven innovations 65
