Corporate governance statement Your Board continues to emphasise the importance of robust governance arrangements in carrying through its responsibilities and I look forward to updating you on the work of the Committee in future reports.
Sir Douglas Flint Chair, Nomination and Governance Committee Membership 3.1 Nomination and Governance Committee report The members of the Committee are the Chair and a number of the The Nomination and Governance Committee oversees the independent non-executive Directors.
On 1 January 2019, Sir Douglas governance framework so the report on its activities is presented both Flint succeeded Sir Gerry Grimstone as Chair of the Committee.
The in summary here and integrated in more detail into the relevant parts table below reflects the composition of the Committee and the of the corporate governance statement.
members attendance during 2018: Dear Shareholder Member Attendance One of my core responsibilities is to ensure effective corporate Sir Gerry Grimstone, Chair until 31 12 2018 5 5 governance throughout the Group and so I am pleased to introduce Melanie Gee 5 5 the 2018 Corporate governance statement and Nomination and Richard Mully 5 5 Governance Committee report.
Recognising that I only took up my role as Chair of the Group and the Committee on 1 January 2019, I want, Simon Troughton 5 5 up front, to recognise the strength of the extant governance framework Former member overseen by my predecessor, Sir Gerry, and confirm my commitment Lynne Peacock 2 3 to continuing his robust work in this area.
Julie Chakraverty 2 3 During 2018, the two main points of focus of the Committee were to Kevin Parry 5 5 ensure that the leadership and governance processes remained strong and effective, both in the run up to completion of the sale of Keith Skeoch and Martin Gilbert, in their Co-Chief Executive roles, Standard Lifes UK and European insurance business to the Phoenix were invited to Committee meetings to discuss relevant topics, such Group the Sale and thereafter, and to conclude the Chair succession as the role and membership of key executive management process successfully.
Throughout the year in conducting these committees, talent development and management succession.
significant transitions, the members of your Board continued to adhere to the highest standards of corporate governance and ethical The Committee supports the composition and effectiveness of the behaviour in directing the Groups affairs, reflecting their accountability Board, and oversees the Groups activities to strengthen its talent to you as shareholders.
Fulfilling this accountability responsibly is pipeline at all levels.
It also oversees the development and recognised by all your Directors as key to understanding and implementation of the Groups governance framework.
managing our business effectively, providing engaged leadership, and In this statement you can read about the Committees role, both in the delivering shareholder value over the longer term.
Your Board takes context of business as usual activities including integration, separation the quality of its own performance seriously and strives to improve and transformation, and in the Sale discussions, in relation to: performance through annual reviews and continuing self-assessment, as well as learning from and implementing feedback from external Identifying and recommending Directors to be appointed to the reviews.
The key governance activities during the year included: Board Reviewing and commenting on the new operating model Maintaining high quality membership of the Board and its Committees, including appropriate diversity Reviewing and assisting in the implementation of the Companys culture, diversity and inclusion activities, including recommending Reviewing the governance content of the Sale Circular that a designated non-executive director should be responsible for Reviewing the executive governance structures, including the representing the views of the workforce to the Board balance between the individual roles and responsibilities of the CoChief Executives and the duties of the key management committees Reviewing Board diversity, skills and experience Reviewing and conducting oversight of the new operating models Considering employee feedback on the purpose, values and culture within the Group of the Group Oversight of our transition and transformation programmes, Supporting the review of the Boards effectiveness including assessment of the evolution of the firms culture to align Overseeing succession planning, leadership and talent with our purpose, values and strategy development and diversity levels throughout the Group Reviewing employee feedback on our purpose, values and culture Ultimate responsibility for these important topics rests with the Board and executive managements response thereto and the Committee reports regularly to the Board so that all Directors Supporting the externally facilitated Board effectiveness review and can be involved as appropriate.
ensuring feedback was fully considered Leading the Chair succession process 54 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE The Committees work in 2018 matters.
The Committee will also report fully to the Board on the progress of its discussions.
An indicative breakdown as to how the Committee spent its time is shown below: Roles and responsibilities The roles and responsibilities of the Board, Chair and Co-Chief Reviewed compliance with the Corporate Executives are outlined below.
The role of the Deputy Chair is to stand Governance Code in for the Chair in his absence.
Reviewed the corporate governance statement The Board Reviewed the Board Committees terms of The Boards role is to organise and direct the affairs of the Company reference and the Group in accordance with the Companys constitution, all Appointment of subsidiary Board members relevant laws, regulations, corporate governance and stewardship standards.
The Boards role and responsibilities, collectively and for individual Directors, are set out in the Board Charter.
The Board Board and Committee composition Charter also identifies matters that are specifically reserved for Review of the target operating model for the Group decision by the Board.
These include approving, overseeing and Diversity and Inclusion review challenging: Review of the Corporate Culture The development and implementation of strategy, objectives and Appointment of subsidiary Board members business plans Supporting the externally facilitated Board Capital and management structures including capital allocation Effectiveness Review strategy and how it supports the Groups long-term sustainable Reviewing Chair succession arrangements via the growth Appointments Committee Oversight of culture, our standards and ethical behaviours Dividend policy Appointment of subsidiary Board members Appointment of the External auditor Considered the Diversity and Inclusion action plan Financial reporting which, during 2018 included the impact of the Discussed the revised UK Corporate Governance Sale and the agreement of the level of provision in respect of past Code annuity sales practices Reviewed Chair transition arrangements How risks are managed, including the Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework, risk strategy, risk appetite limits and internal controls The Committees work in 2018 Significant corporate and other transactions during 2018 which, as An indicative breakdown as to how the Committee spent its time is well as the Sale, included the initial public offering IPO process for shown below: our Indian asset management associate HDFC Asset Management Company Limited, preparation for the sale of our Hong Kong subsidiary, Standard Life Asia Limited to our Chinese joint venture business, Heng An Standard Life Insurance Company Limited and the proposed joint venture with Virgin Money Remuneration policy Succession planning The sustainability of the Groups business and our own sustainability responsibilities to stakeholders, including wider society and the environment Significant external communications Terms of reference of Board Committees Appointments to the Board and to Board Committees Matters escalated from subsidiary boards to the Board for approval The Board regularly reviews reports from the Co-Chief Executives and from the Chief Financial Officer on progress against approved strategies, plans and budgets, as well as updates on stock market and global economic conditions.
There are also regular presentations from Committee effectiveness key business functional leaders and regional heads including from the The Committee reviews its remit and effectiveness each year.
The Chair reports at each Board meeting on the 2018 review was carried out via an external review and Independent activities he has undertaken on behalf of the Board and the Group Board Evaluation IBE was appointed as the external facilitator.
The since the previous meeting.
review concluded that the Committee members had debated issues well and had dealt with several complex matters appropriately.
While The Chair the Committees main activities during 2018 related to Board nonLeads the Board and ensures that its principles and processes are executive membership, going forward, the Committee should find time maintained to discuss fully senior succession planning, talent management, and Promotes high standards of corporate governance gender, diversity and inclusion activities as well as the skills and Together with the Co-Chief Executives and the Company Secretary, experience needed by the Board in the future to support its strategy.
sets agendas for meetings of the Board The Committees workplan for 2019 increases its coverage of these Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 55 3.
Corporate governance statement continued Ensures Board members receive accurate, timely and clear Governance framework information on the Group and its activities The Groups governance framework is approved by the Board and documented in the Board Charter.
Encourages open debate and constructive discussion and decision making You can read the Board Charter on our website at Leads the performance assessments and identification of training www.
com annualreport needs for the Board and individual Directors The Groups Code of Conduct guides our people to do the right thing Speaks on behalf of the Board and represents the Board to and complements the Board Charter.
It sets out our standards of shareholders and other stakeholders conduct and culture, and shows the governing principles for The Co-Chief Executives operational excellence, compliance responsibilities, customer service, During 2018, the Co-Chief Executives, within authorities delegated by and how we should treat our people, and other stakeholders.
the Board: The Board expects the Group to be a leader in corporate governance Develop strategic plans and structures for presentation to the Board activities through its own actions and through its stewardship activities.
The Nomination and Governance Committee regularly reviews the Make and implement operational decisions Groups corporate governance framework against relevant directors Lead the other executive Directors and the executive team in the duties, generally accepted standards, guidance and best practice, day-to-day running of the Group and, as appropriate, recommends to the Board changes to the Board Report to the Board with relevant and timely information Charter.
Develop appropriate capital, corporate, management and The Committee previously oversaw the implementation of the succession structures to support the Groups objectives governance map and processes to support the Senior Insurance Together with the Chair, represent the Group to external Managers Regime SIMR.
During 2018, we began the process to stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, suppliers, implement the Senior Managers and Certification Regime SMCR regulatory and governmental authorities, and the local and wider across the relevant parts of the business, which will conclude in late communities 2019 when SMCR comes into force for all UK financial services firms.
Keith Skeoch has individual accountability for the day-to-day The governance framework sets out the Boards relationship with the running of the fabric of the business including responsibility for boards of the principal subsidiaries in the Group.
In particular, it Investments, the Indian associates and the China Insurance Joint specifies the matters which these subsidiaries are required to refer to Venture, Operations, Finance, HR, Risk and Regulatory Culture, as the Board or to a Committee of the Board for approval.
It also ensures well as the Legal and Secretariat functions that all decisions which require or would benefit from it, receive the Martin Gilbert has individual accountability for external matters independent input of the non-executive Directors.
including responsibility for International Activities, Distribution The roles of the Chair and the Co-Chief Executives are separate.
including client engagement and business development, Marketing Each has clearly defined responsibilities, which are described in the and Corporate Development Board Charter.
As announced, from 13 March 2019, Keith Skeoch will be sole Chief The heads of each business function and each region manage their Executive and Martin Gilbert will be Vice Chairman of Standard Life teams within authorities set out in the Board Charter and within an Aberdeen and Chairman of Aberdeen Standard Investments.
In this approved scheme of delegation.
This includes reporting to the Corole, Martin will focus on managing relationships with clients, winning Chief Executives on how they are complying with Group policies and new business and realising the potential from our global network and performing against approved plans and budgets.
Both Martin and Keith will continue to report directly to the Chairman.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on governance matters.
Code compliance As well as covering the formal disclosure requirements of the UK Board composition, balance and diversity Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial The Boards policy is to appoint and retain non-executive Directors Reporting Council FRC, this statement describes how the Board who bring relevant expertise as well as a wide perspective to the meets its governance responsibilities.
Group and its decision-making framework.
The Directors believe that at least half of the Board should be made up of independent nonThroughout 2018, the Company complied with all of the provisions set executive Directors.
As at 13 March 2019, the Board comprises the out in the Code issued by the FRC in April 2016 other than the Chair, 7 independent non-executive Directors and 4 executive following: Directors.
The Board is made up of 9 men 75% and 3 women 25% Provision B.
3.3. states that The Board should not agree to a full time 2017: men 75%, women 25%.
The Board continues to support its executive director taking on more than one non-executive directorship Board Diversity statement which states that the Board: in a FTSE100 company, nor the chairmanship of such a company.
Believes in equal opportunities and supports the principle that due For the period 1 January to 16 May 2018 Martin Gilbert held nonregard should be had for the benefits of diversity, including gender, executive directorships with Sky plc and Glencore plc.
ethnicity, age, and educational and professional background when The Code is available at www.
uk undertaking a search for candidates, both executive and nonexecutive Together with the Directors remuneration report, this statement explains how our governance framework supports the way we apply Recognises that diversity can bring insights and behaviours that the Codes principles of good governance.
may make a valuable contribution to its effectiveness Believes that it should have a blend of skills, experience, During 2018, the Committee has closely followed the development of independence, knowledge, ethnicity and gender amongst its the revised Code to ensure that the Group is well placed to implement individual members that is appropriate to its needs and comply with its requirements for 2019.
56 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE Believes that it should be able to demonstrate with conviction that Directors and prepared a report for the Chair to discuss with the any new appointee can make a meaningful contribution to its Board.
The Board is not aware of any other connection between the deliberations Group and IBE.
Is committed to maintaining its diverse composition When seeking to make appointments from outside the Group, and Supports the Co-Chief Executives commitment to achieve and having already identified the capabilities needed for Board roles and the succession timeframe, the Committee considers the related role maintain a diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace, both throughout the Group, and within the executive team profile submitted to external search consultants along with the request to prepare a list of suitable candidates.
The Committee then considers Has a zero tolerance approach to unfair treatment or discrimination the potential suitable candidates and agrees a shortlist.
Following of any kind, both throughout the Group and in relation to clients, interviews with potential candidates, the Committee then makes customers and individuals associated with the Group recommendations to the Board on any proposed appointment, subject always to the satisfactory completion of all background checks and You can read more about our Directors in their biographies in regulatory notifications or approvals.
The other Board members are Section 2. also offered the opportunity to meet the recommended candidates.
The Committee considers the external commitments of candidates to The Nomination and Governance Committee supports the Groups assess their ability to meet the necessary time commitment and commitment to diversity and inclusion in the broadest sense and whether there are any conflict of interest matters to address.
This receives updates on progress towards achieving and maintaining process was followed for the appointment of Cathleen Raffaeli.
diversity targets throughout the Group.
This includes reviewing statistics on gender representation and approving gender diversity Each non-executive Director is appointed for a three-year fixed term targets and oversees progress against these on a regular basis.
The and shareholders vote on whether to elect re-elect him or her at every Group also promotes initiatives and programmes to raise awareness AGM.
Once a three-year term has ended, a non-executive Director of why diversity and inclusion matter.
You can read more about our can continue for further terms if the Board is satisfied with the nondiversity activities and current targets in the People and Culture executive Directors performance, independence and ongoing time section of the Strategic report and in our stand alone Corporate commitment.
There is no specified limit to the number of terms that a sustainability report.
We are committed to working to make the Group non-executive Director can serve.
The Board recognises the Code as inclusive a place to work as possible.
Our activities and targets are provisions regarding length of service when considering whether or in pursuit of our vision for an inclusive future which is published on not Directors appointments should be continued.
Taking account of our website www.
You can find our their appointment dates to the predecessor boards, the current gender pay gap disclosure statement on page 29.
The Committee average length of service of the non-executive Directors excluding continues to follow the development of, and the Groups participation the Chair is five years.
The Nomination and Governance Committee in, significant diversity reviews, including the Hampton Alexander oversees the process to recommend continued appointments, but review, and we are one of the initial signatories to the Women in members of the Committee do not take part in discussions when their Finance Charter.
In October 2018 we became one of the founding own performance or continued appointment is being considered.
members of the UK Government Race at Work Charter.
The The role of our non-executive Directors is to participate fully in the Committee supports our commitments under these charters and Boards decision-making work advising, supporting and challenging continues to oversee our progress against these, which we report management as appropriate.
publically on an annual basis.
The Committee also supports the goal of strong engagement with the wider workforce, and Melanie Gee has The letter of appointment confirms that the amount of time we expect taken the role as the designated non-executive director responsible each non-executive Director to commit to each year which, once they for representing the views of the workforce at the Board.
have met all of the approval and induction requirements, is around 35 days.
The service agreements letters of appointment for Directors are Board changes during the period available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Appointments Secretary at the Companys registered address which can be found There were no executive Director appointments over the year.
in the Shareholder information section and at the 2019 AGM.
NonCathleen Raffaeli was appointed as non-executive Director on 1 executive Directors are required to confirm that they can allocate August 2018, and Sir Douglas Flint was appointed as a non-executive sufficient time to carry out their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Sir Douglas was subsequently You can read more about the induction and development programme appointed Chair on 1 January 2019.
Heidrick and Struggles were later in this section.
engaged to support the appointment of Cathleen Raffaeli.
Heidrick and Struggles have no other commercial relationships with the Group.
Director election and re-election MWM were engaged to support the Chairs appointment.
The Group One of the Committees duties is to make recommendations regarding has additionally used the services of MWM to support a recent senior the election or re-election by members of any Director.
In making its management search for the Chief People Officer role.
recommendations, the Committee reviews, as applicable, the appropriateness of continued service beyond a term of six years.
Retirements Julie Chakraverty, Akira Suzuki and Lynne Peacock retired from the Therefore, at the 2019 AGM, all of the current Directors will retire.
Gerhard Fusenig, Kevin Parry and Sir Gerry Douglas Flint and Cathleen Raffaeli, having been appointed since the Grimstone retired from the Board on 31 December 2018.
It is intended previous AGM, will retire and stand for election.
All the others with the that Simon Troughton and Richard Mully will retire from the Board at exception of Simon Troughton will stand for re-election.
the conclusion of the 2019 AGM and Bill Rattray will retire from the You can read more background information about the Directors, Board on 31 May 2019. including the reasons why the Chair believes you should support their Board appointment process, terms of service and role election or re-election, in our AGM guide 2019, which will be published During 2018, the Board composition was reviewed.
In order to assist online at www.
com in advance of this years with determining the right balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and AGM, and in Section 2. expertise for the Board going forward, IBE were engaged to support and facilitate this.
IBE conducted individual interviews with each of the Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 57 3.
Corporate governance statement continued Director independence, external activities and conflicts of You can read more about the Directors outside appointments in interest their biographies in Section 2.
The Board carries out a formal review of the independence of nonexecutive Directors annually.
The review considers relevant issues Advice including the number and nature of their other appointments, any Directors may sometimes need external professional advice to carry other positions they hold within the Group, any potential conflicts of out their responsibilities.
The Boards policy is to allow them to seek interest they have identified and their length of service.
Their individual this where appropriate and at the Groups expense.
Directors also circumstances are also assessed against independence criteria, have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, including those in the Code.
Following this review, the Board has whose appointment and removal is a matter for the Board.
No concluded that all the current non-executive Directors are independent Directors sought external advice in 2018. and consequently, the Board continues to comprise a majority of independent non-executive Directors.
The Board recognised that Board effectiveness Simon Troughtons cumulative term of service as a Director on the Review process Standard Life Aberdeen and Aberdeen Asset Management Boards The Board has, with the help of the Nomination and Governance reached nine years in July 2018 and after consideration, agreed that Committee, developed a formal review process to assess how well this did not compromise his independence.
Before his retiral on 29 the Board, its Committees, the Chair and the Directors are performing May 2018, the Board determined that Akira Suzuki, as a collectively and individually and how performance could be improved.
representative of a shareholder, was not independent.
In accordance with the Code, the Board commissions externally Sir Gerry Grimstone was Chair of the Board throughout 2018.
As announced in the 2017 ARA, the retained his non-executive positions with Barclays PLC.
He also externally facilitated review which was due in 2017 was rescheduled retained his non-executive positions with Deloitte North West Europe to 2018 to allow some time for the post merger Board to come and the UK Governments Ministry of Defence where he is the lead together.
Also as announced at that time, IBE was appointed as the non-executive.
He is also an adviser to the board of the Abu Dhabi external facilitator and carried out the 2018 review.
IBE does not have Commercial Bank.
any other connection with the Group.
Kevin Parry was Senior Independent Director SID throughout 2018.
To carry out the review, senior representatives of IBE were in In this role, Kevin supported the Chair, and often met with him one-toattendance and observed a Board meeting and a meeting of each one.
He was also available to talk with our shareholders about any Board Committee.
They also had access to the papers for each of concerns that they may not have been able to resolve through the these meetings.
In addition to this observation and analysis, they held channels of Chair, the Co-Chief Executives or Chief Financial Officer, individual meetings with each Board member and the key members of or where a shareholder considered these channels as inappropriate.
the Board and Committee support team.
Following this, IBE prepared a draft report for review and discussion.
The Board then met Following Kevins retirement from the Board, Simon Troughton took specifically to review and discuss the report, and representatives of on the additional responsibilities of the SID on 1 January 2019.
It is IBE attended to present the report and recommendations.
intended that Simon will serve as SID until the close of the 2019 Annual General Meeting when he will retire from the Board.
Outcome Overall the report recognised that this has been a time of significant The Directors continued to review and authorise Board members change and challenge for the Board.
The necessary focus on the actual and potential conflicts of interest on a regular and ad hoc basis in line with the authority granted to them in the Companys Articles.
As major structural transactions in the past two years has minimised the opportunities for consolidation and relationship-forming and has not part of the process to approve the appointment of a new Director, the Board considers and, where appropriate, authorises his or her yet allowed the Board members as much time as they would like, ideally, to focus on other key matters.
As a consequence, the Boards potential or actual conflicts.
The Board also considers whether any new outside appointment of any current Director creates a potential or most valuable contribution over the short to medium term would be to support the executive team in: actual conflict before, where appropriate, authorising it.
All appointments are approved in accordance with the Groups Outside Identifying and delivering priorities Appointments and Conflicts of Interest policies.
Attracting and retaining key talent In January 2019, the Board reviewed all previously authorised Establishing the appropriate culture for the transformed business potential and actual conflicts of interest of the Directors and their Continuing to develop strategy connected persons, and concluded that the authorisations should remain in place until January 2020.
Under the terms of the approval, The key conclusions and recommendations from the review included: conflicted Directors can be excluded from receiving information, taking Strategy: create more space in the Board calendar to define and part in discussions and making decisions that relate to the potential or understand the strategic direction by using the Board Committees actual conflict.
The Board and relevant Committees follow this process as efficiently as possible when appropriate.
People: refresh the Boards own line-up over time and oversee The Boards policy encourages executive Directors to take up one senior leadership, succession, diversity and inclusion and talent and external non-executive director role.
Keith Skeoch continued as a nondevelopment programmes executive director of the Financial Reporting Council.
Martin Gilbert is Tone from the top: make sure the Board embodies the behaviours it a non-executive director at Glencore plc, a position from which he wishes to see throughout the organisation and is visible enough to took a leave of absence during the period from 16 May to 9 October.
set such an example He was previously a non-executive director at Sky plc having resigned on 9 October 2018.
Bill Rattray is a non-executive director at Curtis Board Information: continue to challenge the quality and context of Banks Group PLC.
Board and Committee papers so that they fully support effective decision-making 58 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE Progress to implement the recommendations is monitored by the The induction programme provides the background knowledge new Company Secretary and reported to the Nomination and Governance Directors need to perform to a high level as soon as possible after Committee.
joining the Board and to support them as they build their knowledge and strengthen their performance further.
Chair When a non-executive Director is appointed to one of the Boards The review of Sir Gerrys performance as Chair was led by the Committees, they receive relevant induction training on the previous SID, Kevin Parry and supported by IBE.
It was based on Committees role and duties.
feedback given in individual interviews between the external facilitator and each Director as well as regular discussions between the SID and When Directors are appointed to the Board, they make a commitment other NEDs.
to broaden their understanding of the Groups business.
Our corporate centre monitors relevant external governance and financial and The feedback was summarised into a report which was reviewed by regulatory developments and keeps the ongoing Board training and the SID and distributed to all Board members, except Sir Gerry.
The information programme up to date.
During 2018, while the Board Directors, led by Kevin Parry and without Sir Gerry being present, met spent a significant amount of its time discussing the Sale and to consider the report.
They concluded that during 2018, Sir Gerry had integration and transformation activities, specific Board awareness performed his role effectively, shown strong leadership of the Board, sessions took place on cyber risks and security, the UK withdrawal continued to devote significant time to the Group and continued to from the EU, the Groups strategy regarding joint venture operations, have sufficient time to carry out his duties.
Kevin Parry met with Sir staff interaction surveys and corporate culture.
Similarly, the relevant Gerry to pass feedback from the review directly to him.
Board Committees received updates on developments in financial Directors reporting, remuneration and corporate governance.
Non-executive As part of their review, IBE prepared an individual evaluation of the Directors are actively invited to all parts of the Groups business in performance of the members of the Board.
The purpose was two-fold: order to familiarise themselves with how our business is conducted to support the Chairs annual round of feedback to Directors and to and to meet with our people.
assist the Nomination and Governance Committee in its ongoing Succession and talent management activities succession planning activities.
Sir Gerry discussed the individual The Nomination and Governance Committee regularly reviews the results with each Director.
These discussions also considered results of succession planning activities, including key person and individual training, development and engagement opportunities.
retention risk, and talent development programmes at all levels across Director induction and development the Group.
The Chair, supported by the Company Secretary, is responsible for At its meetings, the Committee discussed the future leadership and arranging a comprehensive preparation and induction programme for talent needs of the Group and how the current programmes would be all new Directors.
The programme is tailored to their individual revised to take account of the skills and expertise required by the requirements and takes their background knowledge and experience Board and senior management.
The programmes recognise the into account.
All Directors are required to complete the FCAs changing shape of the Group, and also identify both the talent approval process and, if relevant, the PRAs and FCAs SMCR available within the Group and the need for external recruitment.
The notification or approval process before they are appointed and to selfprogrammes are led by the Chief People Officer, with input from the certify annually that they remain competent to carry out this aspect of Co-Chief Executives and supported by the Group Talent and their role.
These processes continue to adapt to meet evolving best Organisation Development team.
practice in respect of SMCR.
Also during 2018, the non-executive Directors held specific The formal preparation and induction programme includes: discussions on Board and executive succession, the results of which Meetings with the executive Directors, key members of senior fed into the overall plan.
management, the heads of the operating businesses and our The Board members are keen to interact with the members of the corporate centre functions development schemes and have met with, and had presentations Focused technical meetings with internal and external experts on from, key talent across the Group.
specific areas including investments, CRD IV, conduct risk, risk and capital management, and financial reporting Chairs Succession As disclosed in the ARA 2017, Sir Gerry Grimstone indicated his Visits to business areas to meet our people and gain a better insight intention to step down from his role by the end of 2019.
In February into the operation of the business and its culture 2018, the Nomination and Governance Committee considered and Meetings with the External auditors and the FCA PRA supervisory agreed the appropriate arrangements to oversee the governance of teams the succession process.
As a result an Appointments Committee was Meetings with the Company Secretary on the Groups corporate established, chaired jointly by Simon Troughton and Melanie Gee and governance framework and the role of the Board and its comprising all of the non-executive Directors other than those who Committees, and with the Chief Risk Officer on the risk indicated they wished to be considered as internal candidates.
Sir management framework as well as meetings on their individual Gerry was not a member.
The key tasks of the Appointments responsibilities both as Directors and as holders of a Controlled Committee were: Function Senior Management Function role To agree the candidate and role profile for the Chair Background information is also provided including: To receive presentations from potential external search consultants, Key Board materials and information, shareholder communications and following these presentations, to appoint MWM to support the and financial reports search The Groups organisational structure, strategy, business activities To review the long-list of potential candidates against the agreed and operational plans criteria The Groups key performance indicators, financial and operational To work with MWM to revise the long-list measures and industry terminology To assess the revised list against agreed criteria Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 59 3.
Corporate governance statement continued To meet with the candidates on the revised list The Board is equally committed to the interests of the Companys 1.1 million individual shareholders who hold approximately one third of To reach agreement on candidates to recommend to the Board the Companys issued shares.
Given this large shareholder base, it is To discuss the potential Chairs fee with the Remuneration impractical to communicate with all shareholders using the same Committee direct engagement model we follow for our institutional investors.
The Company has continued to gather and respond to shareholders views Following the completion of the process, the Board accepted the Appointments Committees recommendation that Sir Douglas Flint on the services and means of communication available to them, mainly through shareholders contacting the shareholder helpline.
should be appointed as a NED and Chair designate on 1 November 2018, and should then succeed Sir Gerry as Chair on 1 January 2019.
Around 430,000 shareholders receive all communications electronically helping to reduce our environmental impact.
We MWMs other services provided to the Group in 2018 were to support the senior management search for the Chief People Officer role.
encourage shareholders to use our share portal to access information relating to their personal shareholding over 400,000 have signed up to Annual review of internal control this service.
Share portal participants can also change their personal The Directors have overall responsibility for the governance structures details online and view and download their tax documents and and systems of the Group, which includes the Enterprise Risk statements.
Most of our shareholders hold their shares in the Management ERM framework and system of internal control, and for Standard Life Aberdeen Share Account where shares are held the ongoing review of their effectiveness.
The framework is designed electronically.
90% of individual shareholders hold their shares in this to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide way.
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or To give all shareholders access to the Companys announcements, all loss.
The framework covers all of the risks as set out in the risk material information reported via the London Stock Exchanges management section of the Strategic report.
regulatory news service is published on the Companys website.
We In line with the requirements of the Code, the Board has reviewed the have continued to host formal presentations to support the release of effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The system was in both the full year and half year financial results.
These results-related place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual events are also made available live on the Groups website and have report and accounts 2018. a permanent replay facility.
We also undertook a comprehensive programme of investor engagement following the announcement of To support the review, the Risk and Compliance function undertook the Sale including investor presentations and meetings.
an assessment of the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls in line with the FRCs guidance on the requirements of the We publish Company profiles to provide a high level introduction to annual review.
In carrying out the review, the Risk and Compliance the Group and its divisions.
We also distribute a quarterly newsletter function considered reports presented to the Board, the Group Audit featuring articles designed to give investors deeper insight into Committee and Risk and Capital Committee during the period.
The particular areas of our business including our sustainability strategy.
review also assessed the top control issues escalated to the Board Copies of our Company profiles and newsletters are available on the during the period.
Investors section of the Groups website.
Following this review the Board concluded that the system of internal The Chairs statement and the Strategic report in the Annual report control was effective, and that there had been no significant failings or and accounts aim to provide a balanced overall assessment of the weaknesses during the period.
Groups activities, performance and prospects.
This information will be supported by a presentation at the 2019 AGM.
Shareholders will be With regard to regular financial reporting and preparing consolidated invited to ask questions during the meeting and have an opportunity to accounts, the Finance function participates in the risk and control selftalk with the Directors after the formal part of the meeting.
The voting assessment and policy compliance elements of the ERM framework.
results will be published on our website at The Finance function sets formal requirements for financial reporting, www.
These will defines the process and detailed controls for the IFRS consolidation, include the number of votes withheld.
reviews and challenges submissions and receives formal sign-off on financial reporting from business unit finance heads.
In addition, the The 2018 AGM was held in London on 29 May 2018 when Directors Finance function runs the Technical Review Committee and the were available to answer shareholders questions.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Executive Review Group which review external best practice, all resolutions were considered on a poll which was technical developments and detailed reporting disclosure and conducted by our registrars and monitored by independent accounting policy issues.
The results, including proxy votes lodged prior to the meeting, were made available on our website the same day.
40% of Communicating with investors the shares in issue were voted and all resolutions were passed.
The Company continues to maintain and further develop a dialogue with its shareholders.
As part of this, our investor relations and Group In addition, a General Meeting was held on 25 June 2018 at which secretariat teams support communication with investors.
During 2018, shareholders were asked to consider the resolutions recommended the Group continued its programme of domestic and international by the Board, to approve the Sale, the issue and allotment of new presentations and meetings between Directors and institutional shares and an amended remuneration policy 50% of the shares in investors, fund managers and analysts.
As well as the Sale, the wide issue were voted and the resolutions were passed.
range of relevant issues discussed, in compliance with regulations, at Our 2019 AGM will be held in Edinburgh in line with our plan to hold investor presentations and meetings, included integration, separation the AGM in Edinburgh and London in alternate years in order to give and transformation, business strategy, financial performance, more shareholders the opportunity to attend.
operational activities and corporate governance.
The Chair has his own investor contact programme and brings relevant issues to the Our role as an institutional investor attention of the Board.
The Remuneration Committee also consulted Standard Life Investments and Aberdeen Asset Management with major institutional investors regarding executive remuneration together Aberdeen Standard Investments are signatories to and plans during the year.
More information on this consultation can be supporters of 23 stewardship codes around the globe including the found in the Directors remuneration report.
UK Stewardship Code and the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
Both companies promote the importance of 60 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE good governance and stewardship including the management of needs to call or rearrange meetings at short notice and it may be broader aspects of risk relating to the environment, society and difficult for all Directors to attend these meetings.
If Directors are not governance ESG.
able to attend a meeting because of conflicts in their schedules, they receive all the relevant papers and have the opportunity to submit their In addition to holding to account the boards of the companies in which comments in advance to the Chair or to the Company Secretary.
If we invest, through our ongoing engagement and voting at general necessary, they can follow up with the Chair of the meeting.
The meetings, we will work to encourage the high levels of governance Board has established the Standing Committee as a formal procedure and management of environmental and societal risks in the markets for holding unscheduled meetings.
The Standing Committee meets around the world in which we invest on behalf of our clients.
We when, exceptionally, decisions on matters specifically reserved for the believe that it is important for us to transparently report on our Board need to be taken urgently.
All Directors are invited to attend activities so that our clients can, in turn, hold us to account for the Standing Committee meetings.
The Standing Committee did not meet delivery of the very highest standards.
Aberdeen Standard Investments role, as an institutional investor that The Chair is not a member of the Audit, Risk and Capital, or invests its clients savings in a responsible manner, is key to Standard Remuneration Committees.
He may, however, attend meetings of all Life Aberdeen behaving as a responsible business.
Its influence over Committees, by invitation, in order to keep abreast of their the companies in which it invests, provides the Group with the ability discussions.
The table below reflects the composition of the Board to encourage others to act similarly.
during 2018 and the members attendance.
The Board met 10 times When assessing the Companys compliance with the principles and during the year.
provisions of the Code, the Nomination and Governance Committee Number of meetings Board also reviewed the Companys compliance with the Standard Life Chair Investments ESG investment principles and policy guidelines, and Sir Douglas Flint attended as Non-executive Director 1 1 with the Aberdeen Asset Management holistic risk and assessment Sir Gerry Grimstone Chair until 31 12 2018 10 10 criteria.
The Committee concluded that the Company complied with the guidelines and fulfilled the criteria during the year.
Executive Directors You can read more about this at Keith Skeoch 10 10 www.
com annualreport Martin Gilbert 10 10 Other information Bill Rattray 10 10 You can find details of the following, as required by Disclosure and Rod Paris 10 10 Transparency Rule 7.2.
6, in the Directors report and in the Directors Non-executive Directors remuneration report: John Devine 10 10 Share capital Melanie Gee 10 10 Significant direct or indirect holdings of the Companys securities Richard Mully 10 10 Confirmation that there are no securities carrying special rights with Martin Pike 10 10 regard to control of the Company Cathleen Raffaeli 4 4 Confirmation that there are no restrictions on voting rights in normal Jutta af Rosenborg 10 10 circumstances Simon Troughton 9 10 How the Articles can be amended Former members The powers of the Directors, including when they can issue or buy back shares Julie Chakraverty 3 5 Gerhard Fusenig 10 10 Directors Kevin Parry 10 10 How the Company appoints and replaces Directors Lynne Peacock 5 5 Directors interests in shares Akira Suzuki 4 5 Board meetings and meeting attendance The Board and its Committees meet regularly, operating to an agreed timetable.
Meetings are usually held in Edinburgh or London and, on occasion, at the offices of one of our international businesses.
In September 2018, the Board held its meeting in New York.
As well as meeting with clients in New York, this allowed the Board to spend time with colleagues in New York, Boston and Philadelphia.
During the year, the Board held specific sessions to consider the Groups strategy and business planning.
The Chair and the non-executive Directors also met during the year, formally and informally, without the executive Directors present.
At these meetings, matters including executive performance and succession and Board effectiveness were discussed.
During 2018 these meetings also covered discussions in relation to the Sale.
Directors are required to attend all meetings of the Board and the Committees they serve on, and to devote enough time to the Company to perform their duties.
Board and Committee papers are distributed before meetings other than, by exception, urgent papers which may need to be tabled at the meeting.
The Board sometimes Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 61 3.
Corporate governance statement continued Board Committees Investment Performance Committee In October 2017, following the Merger and further consideration of its oversight responsibilities at that time, the Board established the Investment Performance Committee.
This Committee provided insight into investment performance results by asset class, the market and economic environment influencing investment results, supported the review and oversight of performance issues and supported the ongoing innovation and evolution of the investment process and capabilities of the Group.
Following on from the Sale, during the latter part of 2018, the Board revisited what it should be considering collectively and what it should The Board has established Committees that oversee, consider and be delegating to Board Committees.
This discussion recognised the make recommendations to the Board on important issues of policy revised shape of the business after the Sale and its ongoing and governance.
At each Board meeting, the Committee Chairs transformation into an investment management company.
provide reports of the key issues considered at recent Committee meetings, and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to the As a result of this review it was determined that the duties of the appropriate Board members.
The Committees operate within specific Investment Performance Committee should more properly be terms of reference approved by the Board and kept under review by performed by the full Board, so the Committee was discontinued and the Nomination and Governance Committee.
its reporting information was built into the Boards programme.
During 2018, the IPC met five times and its members were Gerhard Fusenig These terms of reference are published within the Board Charter Chair, Melanie Gee, Richard Mully and Kevin Parry.
At its meetings, on our website at it received and discussed reports on: www.
com annualreport Quarterly investment performance All Board Committees are authorised to engage the services of Asset class deep-dives external advisers at the Companys expense, whenever they consider Market context this necessary.
Investment governance and oversight The Chair of each Committee and of the Nomination and Governance Investment process enhancements Committee review Committee membership at regular intervals.
The Nomination and Governance Committee considers all proposed Committee reports appointments before they are recommended to the Board.
This statement includes reports from the Chairs of the Audit Committee and the Risk and Capital Committee.
The report on the responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors remuneration report following this statement.
The Committee Chairmen are happy to engage with you on their reports.
Please contact them via questions@.
com 62 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE 3.2.
1 Governance Membership All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
The table below reflects the composition of the Committee and the members attendance: Member Attendance John Devine, Chair 10 10 Melanie Gee 10 10 Martin Pike 9 10 Jutta af Rosenborg 9 10 Former member Julie Chakraverty 1 5 The Board believes members have the necessary range of financial, 3.2 Audit Committee report risk, control and commercial expertise required to provide effective The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its challenge to management.
John Devine is a member of the Chartered responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and the Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy.
For the business of the relationship with the External auditors.
Committee, he is considered by the Board to have competence in accounting and auditing as well as recent and relevant financial Dear Shareholder experience.
I am pleased to present my report as Audit Committee Chair.
The Committee schedules six meetings per annum, four of which are A major role of the Audit Committee in 2018 related to the Sale.
In co-ordinated with external reporting timetables.
In 2018, there were advance of this, the Audit Committees specific focus was on the work four additional meetings, which were focused on the Sale and related to support the relevant financial disclosures in the Sale Circular.
Sale, this focus switched to the impact on the group financial reporting of the Sale including the carrying value of the groups strategic holding Invitations to attend Committee meetings are extended on a regular in the Phoenix Group, along with the treatment of separation costs.
basis to the Chair, the Co-Chief Executives, the Chief Financial During the year the Committee also: Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Chief Internal Auditor and the Group Chief Risk Officer.
Considered the carrying value of intangible assets, in particular customer relationship intangibles relating to the Aberdeen merger The Committee meets privately for part of its meetings and also has and goodwill regular private meetings separately with the External auditors, Chief Internal Auditor and Chief Financial Officer.
These meetings address Oversaw the succession process for the Chief Internal Auditor the level of co-operation and information exchange and provide an Reviewed the Solvency and financial condition report as part of the opportunity for participants to raise any concerns directly with the Companys annual Solvency II reporting, and then reviewed CRD Committee.
IV reporting following the change in the prudential supervision of the Group Key responsibilities The Committees responsibilities are to oversee and report to the Received reports on compliance with the FCA Client Assets Board on: Sourcebook CASS rules in the Groups CASS permissioned regulated legal entities The appropriateness of the Groups accounting and accounting policies, including the going concern presumption and viability The Committee continued to focus on the quality of financial reporting.
In November 2018 we received a letter from the FRC informing us The findings of its reviews of the financial information in the Groups that they had carried out a review of our Annual report and accounts annual and half year financial reports 2017.
I am pleased to report that the FRC letter noted that there were The clarity of the disclosures relating to accounting judgements and no questions or queries they wished to raise with us at this stage, and estimates did not require a substantive response to their letter.
The FRC asked Its view of the fair, balanced and understandable reporting us to make clear the inherent limitations of their review, which we obligation have set out in the financial reporting section of this report.
The findings of its review of key Group prudential returns and Our report to you is structured in four parts: disclosures 1.
Governance Internal controls over financial reporting and procedures to prevent money laundering, financial crime, bribery and corruption 2.
Internal audit Outcomes of investigations resulting from whistleblowing The appointment or dismissal of the Chief Internal Auditor, the 4.
External audit approved internal audit work programme, key audit findings and the I look forward to engaging with you on the work of the Committee.
quality of internal audit work The independence of the External auditors, the appropriateness of the skills of the audit team, the approved audit plan, the quality of the firms execution of the audit, and the agreed audit and non-audit fees John Devine Chair, Audit Committee Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 63 3.
Corporate governance statement continued In carrying out its duties, the Committee is authorised by the Board to Other agenda items were aligned to the annual financial cycle as set obtain any information it needs from any Director or employee of the out below.
It is also authorised to seek, at the expense of the Group, appropriate external professional advice whenever it considers this Annual report and accounts 2017 necessary.
The Committee did not need to take any independent Strategic report and financial highlights 2017 advice during the year.
Financial reporting judgements In accordance with the Senior Insurance Managers Regime, and its External auditors review of full year results replacement the Senior Managers and Certification Regime which Integration cost and synergies update came into effect for insurance firms on 10 December 2018, the Audit Committee Chair is responsible for the oversight of the independence, Liaison with the Remuneration Committee on targets and measures autonomy and effectiveness of our policies and procedures on whistleblowing including the procedures for the protection of staff that raise concerns from detrimental treatment.
Throughout the year the Circular relating to the Sale, including working Audit Committee Chair met regularly with the Chief Internal Auditor capital and Financial Position and Prospects and the Head of Financial Crime to discuss their work, findings and Procedures reporting current developments.
Solvency II Solvency and financial condition report Committee effectiveness Two special meetings on the Sale Circular The Committee reviews its remit and effectiveness annually.
The 2018 review was carried out by external consultants IBE.
The key Half year results 2018 points arising from the review were: External auditors review of half year results Meetings of the Committee were characterised by good debate and Impact on reporting of the Sale mature discussion CASS update While the Committees work has been very thorough, it may now benefit from a better sense of proportionality, with more being delegated to the management team, in the interests of allowing the Initial findings from the 2018 year end work Committee to reflect for longer on the key issues The Internal audit plan The Committees agenda has been dominated by the merger, the Effectiveness of the External auditors Sale, and year end complexity, and it would be of benefit to now Group non-audit services provided by External focus more on the ongoing retained business as it completes the auditors transformation.
Going forward, the intention is also to spend more time on core control areas so that the Committee covers as much ground as possible in future.
The indicative proportion of time spent on the business of the The Boards review similarly confirmed its satisfaction with the Committee is illustrated below: performance of the Committee.
2 Report on the year Audit agenda The Audit Committee has a rolling agenda comprising recurring business, seasonal business and other business.
As recurring business, at every meeting the Committee reviews and discusses: Updates from the Group Finance function on significant financial accounting, reporting and disclosure matters Findings from Internal audit reports and how high priority findings are being followed up by management Regular refreshes and updates to the Internal audit plan Results of the monitoring of financial crime, fraud risk assessments and whistleblowing including calls to our dedicated Speak Up helpline Reports from the chairs of the subsidiary audit committees Updates on work completed by the External auditors Details of non-audit services requested of the External auditors by business units Other agenda items 64 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE requirements.
The FRC noted that their review is based on our report Detail of work and accounts and does not benefit from detailed knowledge of our The focus of work in respect of 2018 is described below.
business or an understanding of the underlying transactions entered Financial reporting into.
Our accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Accounting estimates and judgements Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Committee believes that some The Audit Committee considered all estimates and judgements that Alternative Performance Measures APMs which are also called nonDirectors understood could be material to the 2018 financial GAAP measures can add insight to the IFRS reporting and help to statements.
The Committee also focused on disclosure of these key give shareholders a fuller understanding of the performance of the accounting estimates and judgements.
The Committee considered the presentation of APMs and related guidance as discussed further in the Fair, balanced and In compiling a set of Group financial statements, it is necessary to understandable section below.
make judgements and estimates about outcomes that are typically dependent on future events.
This is particularly relevant to the defined The Committee reviewed the Group accounting policies and benefit pension plan surplus which is inherently dependent on how confirmed they were appropriate to be used for the 2018 Group long people live and future economic outcomes.
The Committee noted, in particular, that there impact the value of contingent consideration indemnities and our was no significant impact on the timing of revenue recognition from assessment of the carrying value of intangible assets as discussed the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
This new standard did, however, introduce a number of new disclosure requirements.
We considered key assumptions determining the pension fund surplus: inflation including the gap between the retail price index and The Committee also considered future changes to accounting the consumer price index, mortality and the discount rate.
The standards in particular IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 16 assumptions were compared with market data and expert opinions.
Leases and ensured that the impact of these future changes was Further details are set out in Note 35 of the Group financial appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
noted that the Group was eligible to defer IFRS 9 until 2020, and had opted to defer the adoption for the Group in 2018 and intends to adopt The Aberdeen merger in 2017 was accounted for under IFRS as an this new financial instruments standard in 2019. acquisition by Standard Life plc of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
This resulted in the recognition of significant intangible assets.
The The Committee reviewed the basis of accounting and in particular the year end impairment review of the Aberdeen Standard Investments appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of preparation of goodwill resulted in the recognition of an impairment of 880m.
In doing so, it considered the Groups cash Committee spent time at two meetings reviewing and challenging flows resulting from its business activities and factors likely to affect its assumptions relating to future cash flow projections, the discount rate future development, performance and position together with related and long term growth rates.
The Committee agreed it was appropriate risks, as set out in more detail in the Strategic report.
The Committee to base the cash flow projections on the lower market levels at 31 recommended the going concern statement to the Board.
The Committee considered, in particular, the margin In addition, the Committee considered the form of the viability for forecasting risk in the discount rate and concluded that this was statement and in particular whether the three-year period remained appropriate.
See Note 14 for further details.
The Committee also appropriate and concluded that it did.
This reflects both our internal considered the Aberdeen customer relationship intangibles and planning cycle and the timescale over which changes to major concluded that for one of these intangibles an impairment of 35m regulations and the external landscape affecting our business typically was appropriate.
In formulating the statement, the Committee used the The Committee spent significant time discussing financial reporting same information it uses when considering the risks that are taken issues arising from the Sale.
Estimation was required in relation to the into account to determine regulatory capital.
The Committee valuation of certain indemnities relating to the sale.
This particularly recommended the viability statement to the Board.
included indemnities relating to the SLAL review of past sales The Committee reviewed the Annual report and accounts 2017 and practices of annuities, where the main financial risks both positive the Half year results 2018.
For the half year it received written and or and negative continue to be with the Group.
The Committee oral reports from the Chief Financial Officer, subsidiary audit considered key assumptions and sensitivities to these assumptions committee chairs or boards, the Company Secretary, the Chief and was satisfied that the fair value of the indemnity was appropriate Internal Auditor and the External auditors.
In addition, for the 2017 at this time.
Further details are disclosed in Note 41. year end it received a report from the Head of Group Actuarial.
The Also in relation to the Sale, the Group considered accounting for the Committee used these reports to aid its understanding of the 19.98% stake acquired in Phoenix.
The Committee concluded that composition of the financial statements, to confirm verification and Phoenix should be considered an associate and be subject to equity compliance with reporting standards and to justify accounting accounting, notwithstanding that the holding was less than 20%.
Following its reviews, the Committee was Note 16.
Acquisition accounting for this stake in Phoenix requires able to recommend the approval of each of the reports to the Board, significant judgement and was an area of focus for the Committee in being satisfied that the annual and half year financial statements the second half of 2018.
The key judgements related to the complied with laws and regulations and had been appropriately recognition and valuation of intangibles, in particular the Acquired compiled.
Value of In-force business AVIF.
The Committee reviewed and We received a letter from the FRC in November 2018 informing us challenged the assumptions, including useful lives, and concluded that that they had carried out a review of our Annual report and accounts these assumptions were reasonable.
Further, the 2017 and that there were no questions or queries they wished to raise carrying value of the investment in Phoenix at 31 December 2018 was with us at this stage.
The FRC asked us to note that their letter higher than the market value.
Accordingly, the Committee considered provides no assurance that our report and accounts are correct in all whether an impairment in the investment should be recognised and material respects, and that the FRCs role is not to verify the concluded that, in accordance with International Accounting Standard information provided but to consider compliance with reporting IAS 28, this investment should be stated at its market value at Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 65 3.
Corporate governance statement continued 31 December 2018.
The Committee noted that under IAS 28 the Understandable There is a clear and easy to understand additional strategic value of our relationship with Phoenix is not taken framework to the report which is The language we use and into account in the impairment assessment.
See Note 16. the way we structure our effective in addressing Standard Life The Sale will result in the Group incurring separation costs of c200m report is helping us Aberdeens objectives, vision, mission in future periods.
The Committee considered whether it was present our business and and values appropriate to provide for these costs under IAS 37 and concluded its performance clearly in The layout is clear and consistent and a way that someone with a that managements judgement that a provision should only be the language used is simple and easy to reasonably informed recognised for costs for which the Group will not derive ongoing understand industry specific terms are knowledge of financial benefits, such as those relating to fide-coupling and decommissioning defined where appropriate statements and our of systems and data, was appropriate.
See Note 38 for further details.
There is a consistent tone across and industry would understand Principal risks are disclosed in the Strategic report and recommended good linkage between all sections in a to the Board by the Risk and Capital Committee.
The Committee was manner that reflects a complete story satisfied that the estimates and quantified risk disclosures in the and clear signposting to where financial statements were consistent with the Strategic report.
The additional information can be found Committee concluded that appropriate judgements had been applied in determining the estimates and that sufficient disclosure had been Prepare, Review and Challenge made to allow readers to understand the uncertainties surrounding The above principles and supporting statements are considered in outcomes.
each stage of the Annual report and accounts production process.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee supported the financial reporting teams continued review of the Annual report and accounts.
A focus in 2018 was ensuring that the Strategic report appropriately explained financial performance and the implications of the Sale.
Standard Life Aberdeens principles To create clarity around what Standard Life Aberdeen means when it talks of being fair, balanced and understandable, a set of principles were developed, which can also act as an organisational definition for each aspect: Activities An Internal Review Group IRG is in place which reviews the The narrative contained in the report is Fair Annual report and accounts specifically from a fair, balanced and honest and accurate We are being open and understandable perspective and provides feedback to our financial honest in the way we reporting team on whether it conforms to our standards.
The The key messages in the narrative in the present our discussions members of the IRG are independent of the financial reporting 'front half' of the report reflect the and analysis, and are team.
financial reporting contained in the providing what we believe financial statements We provided fair, balanced and understandable guidance to all key to be an accurate stakeholders involved in the Annual report and accounts production The Key Performance Indicators KPIs assessment of business process results for the period are consistent with and economic realities the key messages outlined in the We, as an Audit Committee, reviewed the messaging in the Annual Strategic report report and accounts, taking into account material received and Board discussions during the year The report presents the 'whole' story Balanced Three drafts of the Annual report and accounts 2018 were reviewed where both successes and challenges We are fully disclosing our by the Audit Committee at three meetings.
The Committee experienced during the year and successes, the challenges complemented its knowledge with that of executive management we have faced in the expected in the future are covered and the Internal and External auditors.
An interactive process period, and the challenges The level of prominence we give to allowed each draft to embrace contributions.
and opportunities we successes in the year versus Our Annual report and accounts goes through an extensive internal anticipate in the future all challenges faced is appropriate verification process of all content to verify accuracy with equal importance and The narrative and analysis contained in at a level of detail thats The Committee also reviewed the use and presentation of APMs the report effectively balances the appropriate for our which complement the statutory IFRS results in order to give a more information needs and interests of each stakeholders complete view of the performance of the business.
This review of our key stakeholder groups considered guidelines issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority in 2016 and the thematic reviews by the FRC during 2017 and 2018.
A Supplementary information section is included in the Annual report and accounts to explain why we use these metrics and to provide reconciliations of these metrics to IFRS measures where relevant.
This section also provides increased transparency over the calculation of reported financial ratios.
Adjusted profit before tax is a key profit APM.
The Committee considered whether the allocation of items to adjusted profit was in line with the defined accounting policies, was consistent with previous practice and was appropriately disclosed.
Where there were judgemental areas, such as in relation to the merger of Aberdeen and 66 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE Standard Life Investments variable remuneration schemes, the The Committee Chair is the designated whistleblowers champion and Committee specifically reviewed the proposed treatments and the Committee receives regular updates on the operation of the ensured that the Supplementary Information section provided whistleblowing procedures from the Global Head of Conduct and appropriate disclosures.
The anonymised reports include a summary of the incidents raised as whistleblowing, and information on developments We agreed to recommend to the Board that the Annual report and of the arrangements in place, to ensure concerns can be raised in accounts 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and can be confidence about possible malpractice, wrongdoing and other matters.
understood by someone with a reasonably informed knowledge of financial statements and our industry.
The Committee oversees the findings of investigations and required follow-up action.
If there is any allegation against the Risk or Internal We are interested in feedback from stakeholders and will carefully audit functions, the Committee directs the investigation.
The consider any feedback received.
Committee is satisfied that the Groups procedures are currently operating effectively.
Prudential reporting During 2018 the Group published its second Solvency and financial 3.2.
3 Internal audit condition report for the year ended 31 December 2017 in April, and The Group has an Internal audit function comprising of approximately submitted full annual Solvency II reporting to the PRA.
The Committee 60 people, spread across Standard Life Aberdeens global footprint, continued to adopt a compliance approach to Solvency II reporting, supported by PwC as primary co-source provider.
The Chief Internal drawing on work undertaken by management, Group Risk, Internal Auditor reports to the Committee Chair.
During the year, regular audit and the External auditors.
The procedures are designed to give dialogue takes place, at least monthly, between the Committee Chair the Audit Committee a high degree of comfort that returns have been and the Chief Internal Auditor.
The Committee also reviewed a final draft of the Solvency and financial condition report, and following due Internal audit operates in accordance with a publicly available global consideration agreed to recommend the Solvency and financial charter which is reviewed by the Committee every year.
The overall condition report to the Board for approval.
remit of the function is to protect Standard Life Aberdeen and influence positive change by delivering independent strategic insight In relation to actuarial assumptions used for year end 2017 Solvency and confidence.
Their workplan covers all areas of the Group, and is II reporting, including mortality, persistency and expenses informed by risk based discussions with management, regulators, the assumptions, the Committee received a report from the Chair of the External auditors and the Committee, as well as data analytics and Standard Life Assurance Limited SLAL Audit Committee which testing of business processes and controls.
noted the consideration of these assumptions by the SLAL Audit Committee and External auditors.
After due consideration of this The Committee approves the scope and content of the annual Internal reporting the Committee was satisfied that these assumptions were audit plan, which is updated on a rolling basis to allow Internal audit to appropriate for year end Solvency II reporting.
address any emerging issues and reflect changes in the Groups activity.
Following the Sale, the Group is classified as an investment group for prudential supervision and is subject to CRD IV and the Capital The Committee receives regular reports from the Chief Internal Requirements Regulation.
The Committee considered the results of Auditor on: CRD IV group reporting at a number of meetings and reviewed The implementation of the approved plan and proposed changes disclosures relating to CRD IV results included in the Strategic report to it section of the Annual report and accounts 2018, together with related Key findings from completed reviews, including the impact on assurance over these disclosures.
financial reporting processes and related applications Internal controls The status of managements implementation of agreed As noted earlier, the Directors have overall responsibility for the improvement actions Groups internal controls and for ensuring their ongoing effectiveness.
The assessment of the internal control environment across Together with the Risk and Capital Committee, the Committee functions and regions, where SLA Internal Audit has responsibility.
provides comfort to the Board of their ongoing effectiveness.
The internal control environment of material Joint Ventures and Internal audit regularly reviews the effectiveness of internal controls associates is not within the scope of this work.
and reports to the Committee and the Risk and Capital Committee.
During 2018, approximately 100 internal audit engagements were The Group Finance function sets formal requirements for financial completed.
The Committee considered the following reports to be reporting which apply to the Group as a whole, defines the processes particularly insightful and contributed to the strengthening of Standard and detailed controls for the consolidation process and reviews and Life Aberdeens control environment: challenges reporting segment submissions.
Further, the Group Key regulatory change projects such as the Markets in Financial Finance function runs a technical review committee and is responsible Instruments Directive II MiFID II, the General Data Protection for monitoring external technical developments.
Regulation GDPR and the Senior Manager and Certification The control environment around financial reporting will continue to be Regime SMCR monitored closely.
Separation audit work in relation to the Sale, specifically around data segregation Financial crime and whistleblowing Staff are trained to detect the signs of possible fraudulent or improper On-boarding and integration of acquisitions in the Americas activity and how to report concerns either directly or via our CASS independent whistleblowing hotline.
The Committee receives regular The Committee considers the effectiveness of Internal audit as a updates from the Head of Financial Crime who reports on compliance function annually, monitoring its independence, objectivity and with the Groups Anti-Financial Crime and Anti-Bribery policy, and any resourcing in the context of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors other activities associated with financial crime, including fraud risk.
During the year, Internal audit carried out its own internal effectiveness review as well as a comprehensive quality Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 67 3.
Corporate governance statement continued assurance programme that included an element of independent Services linked to the financing, capital structure and allocation and external challenge.
These processes reported satisfactory results investment strategy of the audited entity, except providing back to the Committee.
Based on its annual effectiveness review, the assurance services in relation to the financial statements, such as Committee concluded that the function continued to be highly the issuing of comfort letters in connection with prospectuses effective.
Promoting, dealing in, or underwriting shares in the audited entity During the year, a managed transition was completed where the The majority of human resources services incumbent Chief Internal Auditor took on a new role within the Group.
The Policy permits non-audit services to be purchased, following An internal candidate was appointed as Chief Internal Auditor, approval, when they are closely aligned to the external audit function ensuring continuity.
and when the external audit firms skills and experience make it the In accordance with the relevant independence standards, the External most suitable supplier.
auditors do not place reliance on the work of Internal audit.
4 External auditors Audit related services, such as regulatory reporting The appointment Accounting consultations and audits in connection with proposed The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the transactions Board on the reappointment of the External auditors, determining their Investment circular reporting accountant engagements independence from the Group and its management and agreeing the scope and fee for the audit.
Following its review of KPMGs Due diligence related to mergers and acquisitions performance, the Committee concluded that there should be a Employee benefit plan audits resolution to shareholders to recommend the reappointment of KPMG Attesting to services not required by statute or regulation e. g. at the 2019 AGM.
controls reports The Committee complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Consultations concerning financial accounting and reporting the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the external standards not relating to the audit of the Groups financial audit tendering timetable, the provisions of the EU Regulation on Audit statements Reform and the Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit Other reports required by a regulator or assurance services relating Services Order with regard to mandatory auditor rotation and to regulatory developments tendering.
The Committee will continue to follow the annual Sustainability audits reviews appointment process but does not currently anticipate re-tendering the audit before 2026.
Auditing IT security where this does not extend to designing and implementing internal control or risk management procedures Auditor independence The Board has an established policy the Policy setting out what nonKPMG has reviewed its own independence in line with these criteria audit services can be purchased from the firm appointed as External and its own ethical guideline standards.
KPMG has confirmed to the auditors.
The Committee monitors the implementation of the Policy on Committee that following its review it is satisfied that it has acted in behalf of the Board.
The aim of the Policy, which is reviewed annually, accordance with relevant regulatory and professional requirements is to support and safeguard the objectivity and independence of the and that its objectivity is not impaired.
External auditors and to comply with the FRC Ethical standards for Having considered compliance with our policy and the fees paid to auditors Ethical Standards.
It does this by prohibiting the auditors KPMG, the Committee is satisfied that KPMG has remained from carrying out certain types of non-audit services to ensure that the independent.
audit services provided are not impaired.
It also ensures that where fees for approved non-audit services are significant, they are subject Audit and non-audit fees to the Committees prior approval.
KPMG has implemented its own The Group audit fee payable to KPMG in respect of 2018 was 4.7m policy preventing the provision by KPMG of non-audit services to 2017: KPMG 5.7m, with the reduction reflecting the impact of the FTSE 350 companies which are audit clients.
In addition 1.7m 2017: 1.9m was incurred on audit related assurance services.
Fees for audit related assurance services are The services prohibited by the Policy are in line with the Ethical primarily in respect of client money reporting and the half year review.
Standards and include: The Committee is satisfied that the audit fee is commensurate with Tax services, other than in exceptional circumstances and subject permitting KPMG to provide a quality audit and monitors regularly the to specific Audit Committee approval in line with ethical standards level of audit and non-audit fees.
Non-audit work can only be undertaken if the fees have been approved in advance in accordance Services that involve playing any part in the management of with the Policy for non-audit fees.
Unless fees are clearly small which decision-making of the audited entity we have defined as less than 75,000, the approval of the whole Book-keeping and preparing accounting records and financial Committee is now required.
statements Non-audit fees amounted to 1.8m 2017: 0.4m of which 1.6m Payroll services 2017: 0.3m related to other assurance services.
Other assurance Designing and implementing internal control or risk management services in 2018 primarily relate to control assurance reports 0.7m, procedures related to the preparation and or control of financial in particular those provided to Aberdeen Standard Investments information or designing and implementing financial information clients, which are closely associated with audit work, reporting technology systems accountant fees relating to the Sale 0.5m, and assurance reporting Valuation services, including valuations performed in connection relating to fund mergers where KPMG are the auditors of the relevant with actuarial services or litigation support services funds 0.3m.
The External auditors were considered the most The majority of legal services suitable supplier for these services taking into account the alignment of these services to the work undertaken by external audit and the Services related to the audited entity's Internal audit function firms skill sets.
The Committee also monitors audit and non-audit 68 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE We have discussed the accuracy of financial reporting known as services provided to non-consolidated funds and were satisfied fees for those services did not impact auditor independence.
materiality with KPMG both as regards accounting errors that will be brought to the Committees attention and as regards amounts that Further details of the fees paid to the External auditors for audit and would need to be adjusted so that the financial statements give a true non-audit work carried out during the year are set out in Note 7 of the and fair view.
Differences can arise for many reasons ranging from Group financial statements.
to good estimates that were made at a point in time that, with the benefit of more time, could have been more The ratio of non-audit fees to audit and audit related assurance fees is 28% 2017: 5%.
The total of audit related assurance fees 1.7m accurately measured.
Overall audit materiality has been set at 32m 2017: 38m.
This equates to approximately 4.8% of normalised and non-audit fees 1.8m is 3.5m, and the ratio of these audit related assurance fees and non-audit fees to audit fees is 75% 2017: profit before tax.
This is within the range in which audit opinions are conventionally thought to be reliable.
As noted above the audit related assurance fees are primarily fees in relation to required regulatory reporting, where it is normal aggregate uncorrected differences become material, we supported that audit testing would be performed to a lower materiality threshold practice for the work to be performed by the external auditor.
Further, KPMG agreed to draw the The Committee is satisfied that the non-audit fees do not impair Committees attention to all identified uncorrected misstatements KPMGs independence.
The aggregated net uncorrected misstatements were approximately 20m which was less Audit quality and materiality than audit materiality.
The gross differences were attributable to The Committee places great importance on the quality and various individual components of the consolidated income statement effectiveness of the External audit.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is and balance sheet.
No audit difference was material to any line item in Jonathan Mills, who is our lead audit partner.
The Committee looks to either the income statement or the balance sheet.
Accordingly, the the audit teams objectivity, professional scepticism, continuing Committee did not require any adjustment to be made to the financial professional education and its relationship with management, all in the statements as a result of the audit differences reported by the External context of regulatory requirements and professional standards.
Specifically: KPMG has confirmed to us that the audit complies with their The Committee discussed the scope of the audit prior to its independent review procedures.
commencement The Committee reviewed the annual findings of the Audit Quality Review AQR team of the FRC in respect of KPMGs audits.
We requested a formal report from KPMG of the applicability of the findings to Standard Life Aberdeen both in respect of generally identified failings and failings specific to individual audits.
The Chair of KPMG presented to the Committee in person.
The AQR team also provided a report following its inspection of KPMGs audit of Standard Life Aberdeen for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Committee Chair discussed the specific findings of the AQR team with KPMG.
We were satisfied that the KPMG audit was effective overall and that any identified areas for further improvement had been addressed or had appropriate action plans in place.
The Committee approved a formal engagement with the auditor and agreed its audit fee The Committee Chair had at least monthly meetings with our lead audit partner to discuss Group developments The Committee received an update of KPMGs work, compliance with independence and its findings at nearly every meeting There was a detailed interview by the Committee Chair with our lead audit partner on the subject of the work undertaken to support their opinion on the financial statements and the consistency of the remainder of the Annual report and accounts with their work The Committee reviewed and discussed the audit findings including audit differences prior to the approval of the financial statements.
See the discussion on materiality in the paragraph below for more detail Additional work was again undertaken on Solvency II reporting and the Committee also reviewed separate papers from KPMG covering this specific work Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 69 3.
Corporate governance statement continued Process execution risks within the asset management business given the potential for periods of heightened market volatility to result in operational errors Further details on these and other activities carried out by the Committee during the year can be found in the report that follows.
Martin Pike Chair, Risk and Capital Committee Membership All members of the Risk and Capital Committee are independent nonexecutive Directors.
The table below reflects the composition of the 3.3 Risk and Capital Committee report Committee and the members attendance both pre and post the merger: The Risk and Capital Committee supports the Board in providing effective oversight and challenge of risk management and the use of Member Attendance capital across the Group.
Martin Pike, Chair 10 10 Dear Shareholder John Devine 8 10 I am pleased to present my report as Chair of the Risk and Capital Melanie Gee 10 10 Committee.
Former member Julie Chakraverty 3 5 Activities related to the Sale formed a significant part of the Committees work this year.
In overall terms, this transaction has Gerhard Fusenig 9 10 significantly reduced the risk profile and therefore the capital Cathleen Raffaeli was appointed to the Committee on 1 January requirements of the Group, but the transaction itself was also risky in 2019.
The Committee meetings are attended by the Chief Risk terms of the amount of work required to separate the business and the Officer.
Others invited to attend on a regular basis include the Chair, transitional arrangements.
The Committee therefore assessed the the Co-Chief Executives, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief transaction from a risk and capital perspective to advise the Board on Investment Officer and the Chief Internal Auditor as well as the the impact of the transaction.
This involved the Committee providing External auditors.
regular review and challenge of the key risks and capital implications associated with the transaction and included reviewing assessments: Regular private meetings of the Committees members have been held during the year providing an opportunity to raise any issues or In advance of announcing externally the intention to sell the UK and concerns with the Chair of the Committee.
The Committees members European insurance business have also held regular private meetings with the Chief Risk Officer To support disclosure of the Risk Factors in the Circular and the Chief Internal Auditor and have been given additional access On the anticipated operational readiness of the business on Day to management and subject matter experts outside of the Committee One following completion of the transaction meetings in order to support them in gaining an in-depth understanding of specific topics.
During 2018 the overall risk environment for the Group has been at an elevated level given the combination of the integration activity Key responsibilities following the 2017 merger of Standard Life plc and Aberdeen Asset Our vision to build a world-class investment company results in Management PLC, and the additional risks arising from the Sale, exposure to a range of risks and uncertainties.
Understanding and together with the ongoing level of regulatory change.
The Committee actively managing the sources and scale of these risks and kept a close eye on the most significant risks and ensured that these uncertainties are key to fulfilling this vision.
were given good visibility at the Board.
The Risk and Capital Committee helps support this by advising the In addition to this, the Committee has continued to provide oversight Board and providing oversight and challenge on: and challenge in respect of the principal risks faced by the business The Groups risk appetite, material risk exposures and the impact of during 2018.
This included: these on the levels and allocation of capital The risks involved in the delivery of significant regulatory change in The structure and implementation of the Groups Enterprise Risk response to the second Markets in Financial Instruments Directive Management ERM framework and its suitability to react to MiFID II and the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR forward-looking issues and the changing nature of risks The management of operational pressures arising from the delivery Changes to the risk appetite framework and quantitative risk limits of integration and strategic change following the 2017 merger of Risk aspects of major investments, major product developments Standard Life plc and Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and other corporate transactions The documentation of the first Internal Capital Adequacy Regulatory compliance across the Group Assessment Process ICAAP for the combined asset management business which operates under the brand Aberdeen Standard Further detail on the work performed in each of these areas is set out Investments in the report below.
The political change risk arising from uncertainty regarding the In carrying out its duties, the Committee is authorised by the Board to nature and form of the UKs exit from the European Union obtain any information it needs from any Director or employee of the 70 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE Group.
It is also authorised to seek, at the expense of the Group, In addition to reviewing these recurring items and undertaking work in appropriate external professional advice whenever it considers this connection with the Sale, the Committee provided oversight of a broad range of topics in 2018.
This included consideration of: necessary.
The Committee did not need to take any independent advice during the year.
Status of compliance with MiFID II The Committees work in 2018 Plans to deliver GDPR compliance An indicative breakdown as to how the Committee spent its time is Advice to be provided to the Remuneration Committee shown below: regarding the delivery of performance in 2017 relative to risk appetites Findings included in the 2017 Internal Controls Report issued for Standard Life Investments Limited and Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Plans for testing, assurance reviews, business risk reviews and validation activity to be performed in 2018 The due diligence and key risks associated with the planned acquisition of ETF Securities US LLC and its US affiliates The risk profile of suppliers and the approach adopted in managing supplier risk The state of compliance on implementation of GDPR The semi-annual update on cyber risk and security Currency risks and the strategy followed in managing and monitoring these risks The operation of activities related to the investment process and performance The Committee operates a rolling agenda and uses each meeting to Planned enhancements to the framework for escalating consider a range of recurring items as well as other items that are risk items to the Remuneration Committee more ad hoc and or more forward-looking in nature.
Actions taken to enhance the conduct risk framework One of the recurring items that is reviewed and discussed at each meeting is the Views on Risk report which provides a holistic Risk assessment of the Sale, the Transitional Services assessment from the Chief Risk Officer of the key risks and Agreement and the proposed ongoing relationship with uncertainties faced by the Groups businesses and the actions being Phoenix taken to manage these.
In 2018 this report provided the Committee Resources to support the management of supplier risk with a comprehensive view of the key risks and uncertainties and Ongoing activity to support GDPR compliance allowed the Committee to review and challenge risks including those The remit and resources of the cyber risk management relating to flows and performance, the delivery of change, liquidity and function capital, operational risk, conduct risk and regulatory compliance.
Proposals to ensure effective regulatory compliance for The Committees agenda also includes the regular review of minutes the Advice and Platforms business following sale of the from the Standard Life Aberdeen plc Enterprise Risk Management UK and European insurance business Committee and minutes from those risk committees comprising nonPlans for the transformation of risk and compliance executives that operate in Standard Life Aberdeen plcs directly-held processes subsidiaries.
During 2018 the risk committee minutes reviewed by the Committee The Groups current and projected capital position included minutes from meetings of the Aberdeen Asset Management following the transition to reporting under Capital Life and Pensions Limited risk committee and the Standard Life Asia Requirements Directive IV CRD IV Limited risk committee.
Prior to the Sale in August the Committee The Aberdeen Standard Investments ICAAP report reviewed the minutes of the SLAL risk and capital committee.
On Results from the 2018 stress and scenario testing completion of the sale, Standard Life Savings Limited became a programme directly held subsidiary of Standard Life Aberdeen plc and, since then, The remit and resources of the investment risk oversight the Committee has reviewed the minutes from the Standard Life function Savings Limited and Elevate Portfolio Services Limited risk The potential impacts of a disorderly Brexit and plans to committees.
mitigate the risks arising from this Regular reporting was also presented to the Committee during the Progress in the management of IT obsolescence risk year regarding the Groups internal risk and capital assessment.
This The management of conflicts of interest in Aberdeen covered the ICAAP performed in connection with the requirements of Standard Investments the Capital Requirements Directive following the Sale and, prior to The semi-annual update on cyber risk and security this, the Groups Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA An update on data privacy and the management of this in performed in connection with Solvency II requirements.
This 2018 supported the Committee in understanding changes to the Groups Actions taken to enhance the conduct risk framework risk profile and capital position over the course of the year and allowed Proposed changes to the risk appetite framework the Committee to challenge managements assessment of risks and to oversee key actions being taken to manage these risks.
Risks associated with the 2019 2021 business plan Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 71 3.
Corporate governance statement continued Stress testing and scenario analysis performed in 2018 also After each meeting, the Committee Chair reports to the Board, summarising the key points from the Committees discussions and supported the Committee in understanding, monitoring and managing the risk and capital profile of the business under stressed conditions.
This provided a forward-looking assessment of resilience to potentially Risk appetites, exposures and capital significant adverse events affecting key risk exposures and The risk appetite framework provides a common framework to enable comprised: stakeholders to communicate, understand and control the types and Univariate stresses looking at stresses to financial and levels of risk that the Board is willing to accept in pursuing its strategy demographic risks in isolation and business plan objectives and the capital that is required in this regard.
Combined stresses looking at simultaneous stresses to a combination of financial and demographic risks The Committee has continued to support the Board through Reverse stress testing considering circumstances or severe monitoring exposures against tolerances and appetites throughout the events, including as a result of operational, conduct or reputational year.
This included, prior to announcing the decision to sell the UK risks, that have the potential to cause the business to become and European insurance business, reviewing the likely impact on the unviable Groups risk profile and capital requirements of the proposed transaction.
Tail risk analysis exploring the possible sequential development of a low likelihood but high impact scenario In May the Committee reviewed proposals from management to The Committee reviewed the results of the stress testing and scenario revise the tolerance for operational risk in light of the increased level of change being undertaken by the business in view of the ongoing analysis that was performed.
This included reviewing the results of three scenarios which were explored as part of the reverse stress integration of the asset management business and taking into account the preparation for the Sale.
Following completion of the transaction, testing exercise: the breakdown of strategic partnerships and client relationships: the failure of multiple key projects: and the rise of proposals to rescale this tolerance in line with the refocused business model were presented by management for consideration by the populism and protectionism.
The latter scenario was globally focused but included consideration of both a hard Brexit and a no-deal Committee.
In both cases the Committee supported managements Brexit.
At the time of the exercise, although a no-deal Brexit was proposals and advised the Board accordingly.
considered an unlikely outcome, the work performed prompted an At its December meeting the Committee reviewed and challenged increased focus on understanding the risks to the business of such a proposals presented as part of the annual review of the risk appetite scenario and the options available to mitigate these risks.
This included reviewing proposed updates to ensure that The Committee also reviewed the results of the tail risk analysis the Groups risk appetites and risk limits appropriately reflected performed for two scenarios.
The scenarios considered were a changes to the risk profile in view of the ongoing transformation of the successful cyber-attack on a critical third party supplier and the failure business.
The Committee recommended and the Board subsequently of IT software which meant the business was unable to operate within approved the changes that were presented.
normal timeframes and resulted in reputational damage as the The Committee has continued to receive regular reporting through the business was unable to provide the usual functions expected by Views on Risk report on financial exposures, conduct and operational clients and customers.
risks, and the Groups capital position.
Through reviewing the relevant Based on the results of the stress testing and scenario analysis, the dashboards, commentaries and associated management information, Committee concluded there was no requirement for the business to the Committee has monitored risks relative to applicable quantitative reduce its risk exposures and that the business was resilient to and qualitative appetites and views on the resilience of the capital extreme events as a result of the robust controls, monitoring and position under current and stressed conditions.
triggers in place to identify events quickly and the range of The Views on Risk report also includes dashboards covering financial management actions available to help mitigate their effects.
These provide the Committee with status The Committee also provided oversight of risk exposures and updates on the financial crime framework, addressing risks related to projected capital requirements in the context of the business planning money laundering, terrorist financing, market abuse, fraud and bribery and reforecasting process.
This included reviewing reporting produced and corruption, and the regulatory outlook.
Environmental, social and as part of the mid-year reforecasting exercise and reporting produced governance risks are actively managed within the business and updates on this are also included within the report.
Using this material, in December as part of the annual business planning process.
the Committee is able to oversee, challenge and advise the Board on Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework the Groups risk appetite, material risk exposures and the impact of During the year the business took the opportunity to refresh the ERM these on the levels and allocation of capital.
framework used to identify, assess, control and manage the Groups Key items that the Committee discussed during the year in this risks.
Details of the proposed changes were presented to the context included: Committee to allow the Committee to consider the structure of the framework and its suitability for identifying, assessing and managing The Sale and the change in the Groups capital requirements current and new risk types and for reacting to forward-looking risk moving from the Solvency II to CRD IV regime issues and the changing nature of risks.
The Committee supported Risks associated with outflows and investment performance the proposed changes and considered they would help drive greater Risks relating to the status of the Groups Brexit preparations and risk awareness and accountability across the business.
the possibility of a disorderly exit from the EU The changes that were introduced aligned risk and compliance The ICAAP report produced for the combined ASI business practices to the broader corporate transformation being undertaken, Enhancements to the Risk and Compliance function through the including the introduction of the new operating model, and reflected transformation programme the impact of the Group moving to the CRD IV capital regime and regulatory developments regarding senior management As highlighted in the table on page 71, we received a number of oneaccountability.
off reports during the year which directly supported the Committee in our oversight of risk appetites, exposures and capital.
72 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE The Committee has continued to obtain assurance regarding the Corporate and strategic risk reporting operation of the ERM framework through its review of regular content The Committee has continued to support the Board in considering the within the Views on Risk report.
In particular we have used our review risk aspects of proposed material corporate transactions.
of the various risk and capital dashboards, including the consolidated In 2018 the Committees activities included reviewing risk dashboard on key conduct risk indicators, to understand the Groups assessments produced in advance of the announcement of the Sale.
risk profile and the effectiveness of the framework in supporting the Based on the assessments presented, the Committee was satisfied management of these risks.
that the degree of risk presented by the proposed transaction was Following the refresh of the ERM framework the Committee now acceptable and that the transaction was expected to result in fidereceives reporting from the Risk and Compliance function on the risking the Group.
As part of the advice provided to the Board, the results of the quarterly risk management survey of regional and Committee highlighted the key risks associated with the transaction functional executives which is used to identify the key risks facing the and the possible impacts of Brexit on the transaction.
The completion of this survey along with subsequent The Committee subsequently considered the proposed content to be discussion of the results at ERMC meetings is noted as helping to included in the Risk Factors that were disclosed in the Circular drive greater risk awareness and accountability.
Furthermore, through produced to support the Sale and related reporting provided to the reviewing the results of the survey, the Committee has been able to PRA on risks arising from the transformation programme.
ensure there is appropriate focus on these key risks facing the business.
Prior to the final decision being taken to conclude the Sale, the Committee considered the anticipated operational readiness of the The Committee specifically monitors risk control processes through business for Day One following completion of the transaction.
The reviewing the results of quarterly policy compliance reporting and Committee noted the risks associated with operational readiness and updates regarding action plans raised in response to risk events which the associated mitigants that were in place.
Key items discussed by are included within the Views on Risk report.
the Committee in this context included data segregation, cyber risk, Exceptions-based reporting is provided to the Committee through the conduct risk and regulatory matters.
Based on these discussions and Views on Risk report setting out any matters of significance in respect the material presented the Committee was able to confirm its support of the results of quarterly policy compliance reporting and actions for the proposed deal completion date.
being taken in response to risk events.
These two items also support During the year the Committee also reviewed assessments relating to the Committee in performing its oversight of the ERM framework.
the proposed acquisition of ETF Securities US LLC and its US The Committee also receives regular reporting from the Chief Internal affiliates.
This included considering the due diligence that had been Auditor which provides an independent assessment of the internal performed and the key risks associated with the transaction.
control environment relating to the operation of the framework.
The Committee also received reports previously called Business Risk Regulatory compliance and reporting Reviews on other aspects of corporate and strategic risk.
These The Committee reviews and assesses regulatory compliance plans reports provided the Committee with an independent assessment detailing the planned schedule of monitoring activities to be performed from the Risk and Compliance function of aspects of the business that by the Risk and Compliance function to ensure there is appropriate could have a material impact on long-term profitability or delivery of coverage.
Regular updates on key findings from regulatory strategy, or that could introduce a material new risk.
One such report compliance activity and progress against the plan were reported to the presented to the Committee in 2018 concerned the product Committee through the Views on Risk report.
development process in the asset management business, recognising the importance of this process in delivering long-term value for clients.
The business has once again faced a busy regulatory agenda in 2018 In particular this supported the Committee in understanding the which included responding to the introduction of new regulations as a process around prioritising activity, the management of seed capital result of MiFID II and GDPR.
In light of the significance of these and resourcing in the context of the implementation of strategic regulations, the Committee received regular updates on the state of innovation.
business readiness in advance of these regulations being implemented.
Governance arrangements The Committee has continued to rely on the work of those risk As a Committee we have closely monitored regulatory developments committees comprising non-executives operating in subsidiary to understand and anticipate potential implications for the Group and companies to provide oversight and challenge of risks within those the wider financial services sector.
This included monitoring regulatory subsidiaries.
The Committee receives updates and minutes from developments regarding statements from the European Securities these committees in order to maintain awareness and oversight of and Markets Authority, the FCA and other European regulators in risks across the Group.
The Committee also reviews the terms of advance of Brexit.
In particular the Committee paid close attention to reference for these committees in order to ensure their remit is statements regarding plans for the FCA and European regulators to suitably aligned.
put in place Memorandums of Understanding that would mitigate the risk of the Groups EU subsidiaries being unable to delegate asset As previously noted in this report, prior to the Sale in August the management services to the UK in the event of a no-deal Brexit.
Committee received minutes from the SLAL risk and capital committee.
On completion of the Sale, Standard Life Savings Limited The Committees monitoring of regulatory developments also included became a directly held subsidiary of Standard Life Aberdeen plc and, monitoring the FCAs announcements in connection with their Asset since then, the Committee has received minutes from the Standard Management Market Study, in particular the potential impacts this Life Savings Limited and Elevate Portfolio Services Limited risk could have on fund charging across the industry.
The Committee has also received reporting during the year from the risk committees in place for Aberdeen Asset Management Life and Pensions Limited and Standard Life Asia Limited, the latter committee having been established in 2018.
Corporate governance statement continued In addition to the Committee reviewing reporting from the subsidiary risk committees, arrangements also exist for the Committees Chair to attend those subsidiary risk committees.
During the year the Committee once again provided advice to the Remuneration Committee regarding the delivery of performance in the context of incentive packages.
In particular, the Committee considered whether performance had been delivered in a manner that was consistent with the Groups strategy, risk appetite and tolerances, and capital position.
The provision of this advice helps ensure the Groups overall remuneration practices are aligned to the business strategy, objectives, culture, values and long-term interests of the Group and that individual remuneration is consistent with and promotes effective risk management.
Committee effectiveness The Committee reviews its remit and effectiveness annually.
In 2018 this was carried out by external consultants IBE who produced an independent report on the operation and effectiveness of the Committee.
The report on the operation and effectiveness noted the role of the Committee in supporting the Board and recognised that risk was high on the agenda.
The review confirmed that the Committees agenda and composition was fit for purpose, highlighting the need for this to be kept under review as business transformation progressed following the Sale.
For 2019, the review highlighted an expectation that to continue to operate effectively the Committee would need to remain focused on key items including MiFID and GDPR compliance as well as cyber and data risk.
Plans are already underway to enhance the Committees coverage of these items in 2019.
