com Governance Nomination Committee Report Dear shareholder Director changes and I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report Board composition on behalf of the Board.
The Committee is responsible for In the latter part of financial year 2018 Julian Dunkerton, nominating candidates for appointment to the Board and one of the founders of Superdry and its Product and ensuring that the Group has the leadership and capability Brand Director, resigned from his role in order to devote required to meet its growth ambitions.
more time to his other business and charitable interests.
Julian had been the Chief Executive Officer from the Activities during the year Companys flotation in March 2010 until October 2014 The prime focus of the Committee this year has been when Euan Sutherland was appointed to succeed him.
overseeing changes to the Boards composition and The Executive Committee at Superdry has, since that time, ensuring that Superdry has the right talent in key roles Principal responsibilities been significantly strengthened, as have the design and to realise its growth potential in existing and new markets.
merchandising teams that Julian helped to establish.
review the structure, size, composition and balance of the The Committee also considered succession planning for Board and recommend changes where appropriate: Following Nick Whartons decision to step down as both Executive and Non-Executive Directors including consider and recommend succession planning for Executive Chief Financial Officer, the Committee reviewed and the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and and Non-Executive Directors: recommended the appointment of Ed Barker to succeed Chief Financial Officer.
Ed joined Superdry following a search led by Sam identify and nominate candidates for approval by the Board During the year the Committee monitored the performance Allen Associates, an independent search firm as Chief to fill Board vacancies or new positions as and when they arise: of the members of the Executive Committee and reviewed Financial Officer Designate on 16 April 2018.
He had approve appointments to the Executive Committee: and Superdrys organisational structure.
Key talent risks and previously been at J. Sainsbury plc where he held a evaluate the skills, experience, knowledge, independence succession plans for the Executive Committee and other number of senior finance roles including as their interim and diversity of Board members.
senior managers were reviewed and actions put in place chief financial officer for nine months in 2017.
Ed had also to mitigate identified risks with key individuals being given previously held finance roles at Burberry Group Plc and is Membership and meeting support and mentoring where appropriate.
The Committee, a Non-Executive Director at Staffline Group plc.
Ed will be together with the Chief Executive Officer, has continued appointed Chief Financial Officer on 5 July 2018. attendance to review the organisational structure in order to define Number of Both Steve Sunnucks and Beatrice Lafon decided not clear accountability for the delivery of Superdrys strategic meetings to stand for re-election as Non-Executive Directors of plan and to ensure the right leadership is in place to lead Committee member Member since attended held Superdry at its 2017 AGM.
Given their decisions a search us through a period of significant geographic and channel Peter Bamford Chairman 29 January 2010 8 8 was instigated, led by Korn Ferry an independent search growth and our progression towards becoming a global Keith Edelman 4 February 2010 8 8 firm, following which Dennis Millard joined the Board as digital brand.
Senior Independent Director and John Smith as a NonPenny Hughes 1 April 2015 8 8 Changes that took place within the Executive Committee Executive Director on 1 February 2018.
Both bring skills Dennis Millard 1 February 2018 2 2 during the year included the internal promotion of Chris Lacey and experience which will strengthen the Board and help Actual number of meetings attended to the new position of Digital Director in November 2017. deliver the next stage of Superdrys growth strategy.
Dennis Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the Directors could have attended has extensive plc board experience including roles as The Committee also reviewed its effectiveness against Chairman and Senior Independent Director of major retail The Committee met eight times during the year.
In addition to the its terms of reference and the results of the annual Board companies.
John has had direct experience of building members of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer and the evaluation, the details of which can be found on page 63. global brands and developing digital capabilities in the Group HR Director attended each of the meetings.
By invitation of That review concluded that the Committee was performing fashion and creative industries.
the Committee Chairman, other Non-Executive Directors attended effectively.
meetings of the Committee during the year.
The role of secretary to the Committee is performed by the Company Secretary or his nominee.
A report on the Committees activities is given to the Board at each Board meeting following a meeting of the Committee.
indd 71 26 07 2018 16:58:33 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Nomination Committee Report Keith Edelman stepped down from his role as Senior All appointments whether to the Board or to the Executive The Board is also supportive of the Parker Committees report Independent Director on the appointment of Dennis Millard and Committee are based on the needs of the business and Review into the Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards and recognises will not stand for re-election to the Board at the 2018 AGM.
the merit of each candidate, having assessed the skills and the importance of greater ethnic representation at key decision experience that they can bring to Superdry.
Given the global making points in the organisation.
While the Board has stopped The Committee reviews regularly the composition of the Board and growth ambitions of Superdry, we ensure that the Board and short of setting a target on ethnicity, it remains committed to membership of Board committees.
Changes that occurred during the Executive Committee have a mix of experience which maintaining focus on achieving greater ethnic representation the year and which have not already been mentioned were: includes operating in an international business.
The Nonacross all levels of the organisation.
Executive Directors on the Board have a mix of professional Penny Hughes was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration experience as Non-Executive Directors and or current or recent Committee and Keith Edelman was appointed as a member Board evaluation operational experience.
of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM: Details of the review of the Board and its Committees, including Dennis Millard was appointed a member of the Nomination this Committee, and my effectiveness as Chairman, undertaken Policy on Diversity and Remuneration Committees and John Smith was during the year can be found on page 63.
Having reviewed the appointed as a member of the Audit and Remuneration The Board believes that a truly diverse Board should include results of the Board evaluation the Committee confirmed to the Committees on 1 February 2018: and and make good use of differences in the skills, experiences, Board that the present Board and its Committees continue to gender and background of its Directors and is supportive of operate effectively and that all of the Non-Executive Directors Keith Edelman stepped down from the Audit Committee greater diversity in all its forms.
who have indicated an intention to stand for re-election at on 31 March 2018. the AGM remain independent with the exception of myself, The Board recognises the importance of women having greater as Chairman, whose independence was determined on my Appointment process representation at key decision making points in the organisation.
In November 2017 the recommendations of The HamptonThere is a formal and robust procedure for the appointment Peter Bamford Alexander Review into women in leadership roles were extended of new Directors to the Board, under which an initial list of Nomination Committee Chairman so that FTSE 250 companies should target a representation candidates proposed either by existing Board members or by 4 July 2018 level of at least 33% women in the leadership teams of their an external search firm is interviewed by either the Chairman organisations.
Leadership teams are defined as the Executive or the Chief Executive from which a shortlist is then selected.
Committee and senior leaders who are direct reports to members Committee members and other Directors interview shortlisted of the Executive Committee in an organisation.
candidates and provide feedback, and extensive references are then taken.
In the case of Non-Executive Directors careful I am pleased to say that 37% of the members of the Superdry consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees have leadership team at the end of financial year 2018 were female, sufficient time available to devote to the role and that the balance exceeding the recommendations of The Hampton-Alexander of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
At a Board level we are conscious we are not meeting When the Committee has identified a suitable candidate, a our diversity aspirations with 11% female representation at the proposal is made to the Board, which has retained responsibility end of financial year 2018.
Following the retirements of Nick for all such appointments.
Wharton and Keith Edelman that percentage will increase to 14% and the Board remains committed to a female participation A similar process is followed for the appointment of members of 25% by the end of calendar year 2018.
In the context of to the Executive Committee under which an initial list of its size, structure and recent changes in its composition the candidates is interviewed by either the Group HR Director Board does not feel it is in a position to commit to achieving the or the Chief Executive Officer with a shortlist then being recommended target of 33% female representation on the Board interviewed by other members of the Executive Committee by the year 2020 but will look to achieve this aim over the longer and members of the Nomination Committee before a proposal term.
Further details on Superdrys gender diversity can be found is made to the Nomination Committee for its approval.
on page 35 of the Strategic Report.
