com Governance Audit Committee Report the Groups ongoing response to the growing exposure to Dear shareholder information security including cyber risks, together with I am pleased, on behalf of the Board, to present my report an assessment of insurance held.
This approach included to shareholders on the key activities undertaken by the assessing existing controls and pursuing a programme of Committee during the year in accordance with its principal activity to improve the mitigation of risks identified.
responsibilities which are to: The Committee has also considered the Groups monitor the integrity of the Groups Financial preparedness for adoption of new accounting standards: Statements, the half-year report and any formal IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from announcements relating to the Groups financial Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
performance, including reviewing significant financial During the year, shareholder approval was given at the reporting judgements contained therein, receiving AGM to appoint Deloitte as external Auditor for this financial Membership and meeting reports from the Groups Auditor, together with year, following a tender process which concluded in compliance with accounting standards and other legal attendance February 2017. and regulatory requirements: Number of provide oversight of the Groups Risk Committee and meetings The Committee has met four times during the year and Committee member Member since attended held review the Groups internal control and risk management reports were provided to the subsequent Board meeting.
systems, and consider reports on their effectiveness Minnow Powell Chairman 1 December 2012 6 6 At least once a year the Committee meets separately with from the Chief Financial Officer together with reports Penny Hughes 1 April 2015 6 6 the external Auditor and Head of Internal Audit without from both the internal and external auditors: Keith Edelman resigned management present.
31 March 2018 12 September 2017 4 4 review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit I am satisfied that the Committee was presented with John Smith appointed function and ensure that it is adequately resourced: papers of good quality during the year, provided in a timely 1 February 2018 1 February 2018 0 1 review the Groups controls to ensure compliance with fashion to allow due consideration of the subjects under Beatrice Lafon resigned the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010 and the Groups review.
I am also satisfied that meetings were scheduled 12 September 2017 14 September 2016 0 2 whistleblowing policy: to allow sufficient time to enable full and informed debate.
Steve Sunnucks resigned We also reviewed our terms of reference during the year, recommend to the Board the appointment, 12 September 2017 13 July 2016 0 2 including comparing them against the Code, and these reappointment and removal of the external Auditor were approved by the Board.
and to approve their remuneration and terms of their Actual number of meetings attended engagement: Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the Directors could have attended Following completion of the Board evaluation last year, the John Smith joined Superdry on 1 February 2018 and had existing commitments which meant review and monitor the external Auditors independence question of whether and when the internal audit function he could not attend all of the scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the remainder of and objectivity, the effectiveness of the external audit is to be brought in-house was considered.
John advised the Company of that fact before accepting his appointment.
process and the audit plan: and concluded that an in-house Head of Internal Audit should Having previously served on the Audit Committee, Keith Edelman be recruited with KPMG continuing to provide the core review the engagement of the external Auditor to ensure was reappointed on 12 September 2017 in order to provide valuable service.
We also recruited an in-house internal audit that the provision of non-audit services by the external continuity to the work undertaken by the Committee.
manager during the year, strengthening the function audit firm does not impair its independence or objectivity.
All of the Committee members are Non-Executive Directors.
The and as part of this transition.
Board considers them all to be independent.
Two members I, as Activities during the year Minnow Powell the Audit Committee Chairman, and John Smith have relevant Audit Committee Chairman The Committee has a standing agenda of areas to be financial experience.
The other member of the Committee contributes 4 July 2018 covered at each meeting based on its terms of reference international business, governance and retail experience.
and, in addition, it also considers relevant matters as By invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Chairman, the Chief they arise.
Specifically within financial year 2018, the Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other Directors, Head Committee considered the accounting for the Founder of Internal Audit outsourced to KPMG LLP, senior managers and Share Plan FSP, the buy-out of the operations of external Auditor also attend Committee meetings.
Superdrys wholesale agent in Holland, Portare B. V. The role of the secretary to the Committee is performed by the Portare, and the impairment of the Kranzler store in Company Secretary or his nominee.
A report on the Committees Berlin.
The Committee has also devoted time to reviewing activities is given to the Board at each subsequent Board meeting.
the Groups risk assessment and assurance mapping within a holistic controls framework.
It has also overseen 67 Superdry Front Section.
indd 67 26 07 2018 16:58:31 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Audit Committee Report The principal matters under consideration during the year are set Group restructure Financial reporting and out below.
Further to approvals given to implement a restructure of the accounting judgements Groups European entities, the Committee has reviewed the Internal control and risk The Committee reviewed and approved the Financial Statements progress and status of the restructuring programme and is of the Group and all formal announcements relating to the Groups management satisfied with the progress achieved to date, which should see financial performance.
The review considers the integrity of the the completion of this activity during the current financial year.
The Committee has continued to review and discuss with reporting, the appropriateness and acceptability of accounting management the Groups process for evaluation and assessment policies and practices, and compliance with financial reporting Other of its management of risk and internal controls.
The review standards and requirements.
focuses on the effectiveness of the risk management process The Committee has continued to review other key areas of risk and including risk assurance mapping, financial, operational, technical internal controls including delegated authorities, accounts payable, For accounting judgements, the Committee considered detailed and compliance risks and related mitigating controls which are banking and treasury, tax, credit control management and transfer papers provided to them by management and the views of the described on page 51.
The Committee has noted the continued pricing with presentations given by the managers responsible.
The Committee considers that the Group has focus and improvement in the risk management process and the An internal audit review of treasury and cash management adopted appropriate accounting policies and made appropriate strengthening of internal controls during the year.
controls confirmed their adequacy and that appropriate levels of estimates and judgements where required.
segregation of treasury duties were in existence.
Specifically, with regards to inventory, the Groups store Information technology and The Committee received and considered presentations in assurance programme, including physical stock losses in stores, respect of the buy-out of the operations of Portare, the IFRS 2 is considered by the Audit Committee twice annually, alongside information security share based payment implications of the FSP and the review of considerations of the appropriateness of the stock provisioning While the core information technology systems within the Group potential store impairments, which highlighted the need to impair policy and adequacy of the Groups stock provisions.
have been strengthened significantly, given their continued the Kranzler store in Berlin.
The Committee considered whether development, the Committee continues to focus on the these items are non-underlying, in accordance with guidelines development of the information technology control environment.
Specifically and, after A key area of focus for management this year has been the consultation with the Auditor, the Committee concurred with assessment of an information security matrix, ensuring that managements judgement as: information management is covered in its widest sense systems, The IFRS 2 charge in respect of the FSP is reflected in the data protection and integrity and confidentiality.
The matrix Income Statement, however, there are no cost or cash considers good practice from other businesses and the framework implications for the Company with the cost being met by the published by the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills to founders.
establish a programme of systems and process developments to The size of the Kranzler charge, being an impairment of strengthen security and improve education and awareness.
The 5m and an onerous lease of 2.2m, meets the definition Audit Committee monitors progress against this programme.
of exceptional and other items.
In addition, the Committee The CIO provided reports on the Groups compliance with the reviewed the basis of the charge, taking into account the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, and, as part of opinion of independent third party surveyors about the the wider ongoing development of Business Continuity plans, best strategy for letting excess space, the rent likely to be and management presented the results of testing of disaster achieved and the time likely to secure a tenant.
recovery plans for major IT components critical to business The Committee also discussed with the Executive Directors operations.
the risk and controls over fraud, and the risk of financial The General Data Protection Regulations GDPR required full misstatements by non-compliance with laws and regulations.
The Group has developed clear The Committee reviewed the Groups Tax and Treasury policies policies and procedures to cover the collection and use of personal and recommended them to the Board for approval.
Additionally, data and adopted appropriate technical and organisational the Committee reviewed and recommended for approval by measures in order to be compliant.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Board the tax strategy, which is now available on the the Groups readiness, including an internal audit assessment, and corporate website.
believes that the requirements have been satisfied.
com Governance the value of returned inventory, which forms part of the returns There is also anticipated to be an impact on classifications within Adoption of new provision.
Appropriate resource has been assigned to ensure accounting standards the readiness of systems and financial reporting requirements The overall impact of IFRS 9 has been reviewed, with due and reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
Following a review, At the balance sheet date there are a number of new standards consideration given to the provisioning of bad debts under an Superdry will adopt the standard on a full retrospective basis.
in issue but not yet effective, including IFRS 9 Accounting for expected loss model, which considers allowances for credit Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with losses.
The Group has concluded that adoption of this new The work to determine the impact assessment of transition to Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
standard will not have a material on either the consolidated IFRS 16 is anticipated to conclude in the next financial year.
income statement or the consolidated balance sheet.
As such, it is not currently considered practical to provide an The overall impact of IFRS 15 is not significant, with the Groups estimate of the financial effect of transition until this has been existing accounting policies consistent, in all significant respects, IFRS 16 is expected to have a material impact on the value of finalised.
The Group offers a returns facility for retained earnings, lease liabilities and right of use assets.
An Retail consumers and has contractual returns arrangements associated finance charge and depreciation charge will replace Key matters for some Wholesale customers.
However, under the Groups the existing operating lease charge, and as a result there is current accounting treatment, and consistent with IFRS 15, The key matters in addition to the FSP and Kranzler store expected to be an impact on operating profit in future periods, revenue is not recognised for goods expected to be returned.
impairment and onerous lease set out above which have been but there will be no impact on the underlying commercial Adoption of the standard will require will require a balance sheet reviewed by the Committee for the current year are set out below: performance of the Group or the cash generated.
reclassification between current liabilities and current assets of Area Issue How addressed Exceptional and other items Material items that are outside the normal The Committee considers the nature and size of costs categorised as exceptional and other, course of business and adequacy of including whether they meet the definition of an exceptional and other item, being material in size, disclosure.
unusual or infrequent in nature.
This year, the Berlin, Kranzler store charge and the Portare agency buy-out have met the definitions of exceptional items.
Other items include the IFRS 2 Share Based Payment charge in respect of the FSP and the movement in fair value of the unrealised derivatives.
Further details of these are included in note 6 and their determination as exceptional and other is explained in note 35.
Going concern and Viability Statement The appropriateness of preparation of the Financial The Committee reviewed the cash flow forecasts and concluded that it was appropriate to prepare Statements on a going concern the Financial Statements on a going concern basis.
Following the Boards review of the Groups basis and the Viability Statement.
long-term financial plan, the Committee considered the cash flows, sensitivities and disclosures, made with regard to the Groups viability, in this Annual Report and considers them to be reasonable.
During the year the Committee received an update on instances Fair, balanced and Whistleblowing of fraud within the Group and a summary of the calls to the The Group has a policy and process in place for whistleblowing understandable whistleblowing helpline together with follow-up actions that and the Committee is satisfied that colleagues have the were undertaken.
At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered opportunity to raise concerns in confidence about possible whether the Financial Statements and the elements of the Annual Controls and procedures are in place to ensure compliance with fraudulent activity and any other concerns that arise within the Report that are relevant to the Financial Statements, as a whole, the Bribery Act 2010.
The Committee receives a regular report on organisation.
The Committee is also satisfied that arrangements are fair, balanced and understandable.
the Groups gift register which includes any gifts and hospitality are in place for proportionate and independent investigation of received by colleagues from external business relationships such matters, including appropriate follow-up action.
The Board took account of this review in its consideration of above an agreed threshold.
whether the Annual Report, in its entirety, was fair, balanced and understandable.
indd 69 26 07 2018 16:58:32 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Audit Committee Report Details of all non-audit services provided during the year are set Internal audit effectiveness Independence of out within the note on Auditors remuneration on page 125 in the The annual review of the internal audit plan considers the outputs external Auditor Financial Statements and are summarised in the table below: from the Risk Committee and ensures that the coming year is Auditor independence is maintained by reviewing Deloittes 2018 2017 planned and the following year is agreed in outline so that areas 000 000 confirmation of their independence and monitoring the nature of focus are audited at least once over the course of the threeand value of non-audit services carried out.
We will continue to Audit fees 468 406 year plan.
During the year, internal audit has delivered 12 audits ensure that employees of the external Auditor who have worked Non-audit fees including coverage of the following areas: GDPR readiness, on the audit in the past two years are not appointed, without Audit-related assurance services 40 40 delegated authorities, US operations, wholesale distributors and prior approval of the Committee, to senior financial positions agents, accounts payable, treasury and stock management in Other 1 230 within the Group.
In addition, the rotation of the lead partner retail stores.
Total non-audit fees 41 270 occurs every five years.
Non-audit fees as a percentage of The effectiveness of internal audit is reviewed on an ongoing The Committee assessed the independence of the external audit fees 9% 67% basis by the Committee.
This review takes the form of a detailed Auditor and concluded that they were independent.
questionnaire followed by discussion and assessment of the Audit fees payable to other audit firms outsourced function.
The internal audit function has now been for the audit of foreign subsidiaries 4 93 Reappointment supplemented with the addition of a suitably qualified in-house Total Auditors remuneration 513 769 internal audit manager.
The Committee has recommended that Deloitte be reappointed at the forthcoming AGM.
Non-audit fees were 9% and were incurred in respect of the Effectiveness of external audit interim review.
Non-audit services Deloitte were appointed as external Auditor following a tender The Committee has reviewed and agreed the non-audit services process which completed in February 2017, replacing PwC.
The general policy in respect of non-audit work by the external as set out above provided by the external Auditor, together with Accordingly, a review of the effectiveness of the FY18 external Auditor is that they should not be requested to carry out a the associated fees, and is satisfied that these did not prejudice audit, undertaken by an internal survey of members of the prohibited non-audit service as defined under provision 5.167 the external Auditors independence or objectivity.
Committee, the Chief Financial Officer, and the internal finance of the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard and or Minnow Powell team, has been initiated and the results will be considered by the non-audit services on any material activity of the Group where Audit Committee Chairman Committee in October 2018.
This review adopts the Financial they may, in the future, be required to give an audit opinion or act 4 July 2018 Reporting Council FRC guidance on effectiveness and as management, in accordance with the Audit Practices Boards includes consideration of its Audit Quality Review teams report Ethical Standard for Auditors.
on Deloitte as a firm and noted the key findings.
In certain limited areas it is in the Groups and its shareholders interests to engage the external audit firm to deliver certain Supervision of the services.
To protect auditor objectivity and independence the Committee approves each individual non-audit service that is not external Auditor considered to be clearly trivial less than 10,000 in value and The Committee oversees the external Auditor by reviewing, every piece of work, once an agreed threshold, which is capped challenging, and approving the audit plan and ensuring that at a value equivalent to the audit fee, is reached.
The level of it is consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
The non-audit fees are monitored to ensure they do not exceed 70% Committee meets regularly with the external Auditor, both of the average annual statutory audit fees payable over the last with and without management present.
During the review three years.
of the audit plan, the Committee discussed and agreed those financial statement risk areas identified by the Auditor that required additional audit emphasis and discussed and challenged the Auditors assessment of materiality including the fide minimis level for reporting unadjusted differences.
The audit opinion on pages 96 to 103 provides a full explanation of the scope of the audit, concept of materiality and key accounting and reporting judgements.
