SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance Report Code compliance Chief Executive Superdry Plc Board The Board supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate Officer & Chairman, Non-Executive Directors including Senior Independent Director Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in and Executive Directors Executive April 2016 the Code which applies to financial years beginning on or after 17 June 2016.
Committee The following, together with the Directors biographies on pages Members of Executive 60 to 61, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 73 to Committee who support 91, the Directors Report on pages 92 to 94, the Nomination Board committees: Committee Report on pages 71 to 72 and the Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer Report on pages 67 to 70, provides an explanation of how the Chief Financial Officer principles of the Code have been applied during the year.
HR Director The Board considers that it has been in compliance with the Company Secretary provisions of the Code throughout financial year 2018.
Audit Nomination Remuneration The Board is considered to be of a sufficient size and balance Committee Committee Committee to meet the requirements of the business.
The Strategic Report includes the information needed for shareholders to assess our performance, business model Read more on page 67 Read more on page 71 Read more on page 73 and strategy and is incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and the role and duties of the Senior Independent Director, are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Copies of these documents are available on corporate.
The Board and The Board meets regularly to consider issues relating to Superdrys overall performance, strategy and future development and receives Governance framework appropriate and timely information to enable it to discharge its duties.
Senior managers attend Board and Executive Committee The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework meetings where appropriate to present business updates.
with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities.
For The table below gives details of the Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings during the year: the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established as set Board meeting Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration Number of Number of Committee Number Committee Number out in the following diagram.
Each of these Board Committees scheduled scheduled of scheduled of scheduled is chaired by a separate chairman and has written terms of meetings meetings meetings meetings reference which are reviewed regularly by the Board and which Membership and attendance attended held attended held attended held attended held are available on corporate.
Peter Bamford 6 6 8 8 Euan Sutherland 6 6 The Board is responsible collectively for promoting Superdrys success and for implementing the business model and strategy Julian Dunkerton Resigned 31 March 2018 6 6 as set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 59.
The Board Nick Wharton 6 6 provides leadership for the Group and concentrates its Keith Edelman 6 6 4 4 8 8 6 6 efforts on strategy, performance, governance and internal Penny Hughes 6 6 6 6 8 8 6 6 control.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board which Beatrice Lafon Resigned 12 September 2017 1 2 0 2 is regularly reviewed and approved by the Board is available on Dennis Millard Appointed 1 February 2018 2 2 2 2 2 2 corporate.
The requirement for Board approval on Minnow Powell 6 6 6 6 6 6 these matters is understood by our Executive Committee and senior managers and is built into our delegated authority matrix John Smith Appointed 1 February 2018 1 2 0 1 1 2 and overall control framework.
Steve Sunnucks Resigned 12 September 2017 1 2 0 2 0 1 Operational matters, trading performance and the development Actual number of meetings attended Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the Directors could have attended of proposals for Board consideration, where required under Not standing for re-election at the AGM.
the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, are delegated John Smith joined Superdry on 1 February 2018 and had existing commitments which meant he could not attend all of the scheduled Board and to an Executive Committee led by the Chief Executive Officer.
Committee meetings during the remainder of financial year 2018.
John advised the Company of that fact before accepting his appointment.
com Governance During financial year 2018, in addition to its routine business, assessed Superdrys position and processes in relation to Directors conflicts of interest strategic planning and presentations from the Executive information, including GDPR readiness, and cyber security: Superdrys articles of association permit the Directors to Committee members and senior managers, the Board also: reviewed and approved a number of governance consider and, if thought fit, authorise situations where a Director arrangements including an updated Modern Slavery Annual recommended that shareholders approve a change in the has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with Statement, an updated Diversity Policy and the publication of name of the Company from SuperGroup Plc to Superdry the Companys interests.
In deciding whether to authorise a Superdrys Gender Pay Gap Report and Tax Strategy: and Plc, which was subsequently approved at an Extraordinary conflict or potential conflict, the non-conflicted Directors must General Meeting held on 8 January 2018: approved the appointment of UBS as joint corporate broker act in a way they consider would be most likely to promote the alongside Investec.
Companys success and they may impose limits or conditions considered succession planning for Non-Executive Directors when giving their authorisation, or subsequently, if they think it including the roles of Chairman and Senior Independent The Non-Executive Directors meet with the Chairman separately is appropriate.
Any authorisation given is recorded in the Board Director: on a regular basis normally the evening before a Board meeting minutes.
The Board monitors and reviews potential conflicts of approved the appointment of a successor to the current without the Executive Directors present there have been four interest on a regular basis.
Chief Financial Officer: such meetings during the year.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors have each spoken to the Senior Independent Director approved the appointment of two Non-Executive Directors, Performance evaluation to appraise the performance of the Chairman during the year.
including a successor to the role of Senior Independent Each year the performance of the Board, the Board Committees Director, to the Board: All members of the Board and the Board Committees have and the Chairman is evaluated and, as required by the Code, considered the implications and effect of Julian Dunkertons access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, every third year the evaluation is conducted by an external resignation: who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are independent facilitator.
The next external evaluation will take complied with, and have sufficient resources and access to reviewed and discussed Superdrys approach to the digital place in 2019. independent advice as required.
The appointment and removal marketplace changes in sessions hosted by Google and of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
The 2017 internal evaluation, which was supported by Lintstock social media and marketing agency, Social Chain: Consultants Lintstock, confirmed continued high or improved considered the proposal for and gave approval to the As at the date of the Annual Report the Board had nine members: performance on the part of the Board, the Board Committees divestment of the Companys remaining interest in Anatwine the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, two and the Chairman.
Following that evaluation the Board agreed Limited and the buy-out of the operations of Superdrys other Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
a number of actions which were monitored throughout the year.
wholesale agent in the Netherlands, Portare B. V. : Dennis Millard succeeded Keith Edelman as Senior Independent These included considering aspects of the Boards composition Director following Dennis appointment on 1 February 2018.
Keith reviewed the performance and development of the Superdry and expertise in particular, the Boards understanding of the rest Edelman, a Non-Executive Director, has indicated to the Board his brand in North America and gave approval to open further of the world outside of Europe and the Americas, the timing intention to retire from the Board and that he does not intend to new stores in the US and to making a further investment for the identification of successors to the Senior Independent stand for re-election at the AGM.
Accordingly, Keith will retire at the in our joint venture in China: Director and the Chairman, and investing more of the Boards conclusion of the AGM.
The biographies of the Directors appear time on corporate culture and values.
approved exclusive franchise arrangements in Vietnam on pages 60 to 61. and Cambodia: Subsequent to the Board evaluation, the Non-Executive Directors regularly reviewed Superdrys trading performance assessing visited China to see how Superdrys joint venture was developing Non-Executive Director the impact of general economic and variable weather and to understand better some of the issues encountered and independence and length of service conditions, the acceleration of consumer demand for the opportunities present in our supply chain more generally.
This ability to transact digitally and the resultant implications for The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is was a significant step in addressing the Boards understanding Superdrys owned store estate and product ranges: considered annually with the exception of the Chairman whose of our business in that market and of our supply chain.
The independence is determined on his appointment only along with Board also focused on the appointment of a successor to approved Superdrys 5.0 Strategy including a revised their commitment and performance on the Board and its relevant Keith Edelman as the Senior Independent Director resulting in Sustainability Programme both of which were announced committees.
All Non-Executive Directors are considered by the the appointment of Dennis Millard.
The Board also received at a two day Capital Markets Update held starting on Board to be independent and free from any relationship that presentations relating to employee engagement including in 25 September 2017 : could interfere materially with the exercise of their independent relation to Superdrys employee engagement survey, SuperSay considered the Boards approach to the subject of the judgement.
A clause is included in their letters of appointment and the work which led to six Superdry values being defined in Stakeholder Voice in Decision Making and to the Boards setting out their required time commitment.
collaboration with 60 colleagues from every part of Superdrys overall oversight of Superdrys culture and values: global business.
These values were shared with colleagues Having considered the Chairmans other commitments, including gave its support to Superdry Sport becoming the Official worldwide through an innovative communication route namely at B&M European Value Retail SA and Spire Healthcare Group Clothing Supplier to the UK Delegation to the 2018 Invictus as a set of product care labels.
Plc, the Board is satisfied that he has adequate time to be able Games to be held in Sydney: to act as Chairman.
indd 63 26 07 2018 16:58:30 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance Report This years evaluation was also performed internally supported be attended by non-members by invitation from the relevant Diversity by the Company Secretary.
Given the transition in the size and Chairman.
Attendance by non-members is recorded in the We believe in respecting individuals and their rights in the composition of the Board it was agreed that a simple internal relevant committee minutes.
Please see page 35 of the Strategic Report and evaluation would be conducted.
An online questionnaire which page 72 of the Nomination Committee Report for more reviewed the performance of the Board, the Chairman and its Induction and information about our approach to our colleagues and Committees, was prepared and completed by the Directors.
professional development diversity, and for details on the Boards policy on diversity.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the process to encourage an open and honest exchange of views.
Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to meet with Communication The results were then analysed and summarised in a report members of the Executive Committee and senior managers prepared by the Company Secretary and presented to the to gain first-hand experience of the business.
Senior managers with shareholders Board at its meeting held on 14 May 2018. regularly attend Board meetings to make presentations to We recognise the importance of communicating with our the Directors.
This year, these presentations have included The performance of the Executive Directors during the year was shareholders.
Communication with institutional shareholders such topics as our product, sourcing, wholesale, ecommerce, monitored by the Chief Executive Officer and the Nomination is undertaken as part of our investor relations programme.
logistics, IT and sustainability strategies and health and safety.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer make In addition, the Non-Executive Directors make site visits to presentations after the half-year and full-year results and The 2018 evaluation covered: ensure they are kept up to date with developments across communicate regularly with our shareholders.
A two day Capital the business.
In May 2017 the Board visited China to develop the Boards composition: Markets Update was held in September 2017 at our Cheltenham its understanding of that market and Superdrys investment in its headquarters entitled Superdry a global digital brand.
The how the Board worked together: how effectively it used joint venture there.
presentations given and videos of the event are available on its time and the support it received: corporate.
All Directors have received instruction on their responsibilities strategic and operational oversight, risk management as a Director and copies of our key policies.
and internal control: The Chairman arranges meetings with major institutional shareholders to gain a balanced understanding of their views the appropriateness of Superdrys organisational structure The Chairman is responsible for preparing and co-ordinating an and concerns and to discuss strategic development and at senior levels: and induction programme for newly appointed Directors, including corporate governance.
He is also in regular communication presentations from senior managers on different aspects of the the overall performance of the Chairman and the Boards with our significant private shareholders, Julian Dunkerton and business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities Committees.
James Holder and ensures that the views of shareholders are and liabilities as a Director of a listed company.
Following Dennis communicated to the Board as a whole.
The performance evaluation was positive with all responses Millard and John Smiths appointments to the Board during indicating continued high or improved performance during the the year, the Company Secretary arranged a tailored induction At our AGM shareholders will have the opportunity to ask year.
Following the evaluation, the Board agreed a number of programme which included one-to-one meetings with individual questions of the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and actions that will be monitored throughout the current year.
These members of the Executive Committee and other senior managers Nomination Committees, the Senior Independent Director, centred on improved visibility of the scheduling of agenda items as well as store and other site visits.
Ed Barker has followed a and the other members of the Board.
for the Boards consideration over a rolling 12 month period and similar, but more detailed and in-depth, induction and handover the opportunity to further improve the content and timeliness of Our shareholders have the opportunity to meet the programme since arriving on 16 April 2018.
Non-Executive Directors at additional times in the year.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements are made available Re-election of Directors to all of our shareholders and potential investors.
Other information At the AGM, all Directors, other than Keith Edelman and Nick about us is made available on corporate.
Wharton, will offer themselves for election or re-election as appropriate.
We consider the Directors offering themselves for election or re-election to be effective, committed to their roles and to have sufficient time available to perform their duties.
Board and committee attendance A description of the work of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees is set out on pages 67 to 91.
During the year, additional ad hoc Board and Committee meetings were held as required.
Committee meetings may 64 Superdry Front Section.
com Governance our risk management process is integrated within the short Fair, balanced and Change of control and long-term business planning processes: The provisions of our employee share plans may cause understandable our treasury position, including cash and foreign exchange, is options and awards granted under such plans to vest upon a managed in accordance with our Board approved treasury policy: The Board is responsible for the preparation and approval of the change of control.
Annual Report and financial statements and considers them, financial forecasts, providing predicted results with sensitivity taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and analysis, are prepared routinely throughout the year for Substantial shareholdings provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the review by the Executive Committee and the Board: Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
As at 4 July, we had been notified, pursuant to DTR 5 of the we have established investment appraisal and authorisation A summary of the Directors responsibilities for the Annual Report Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, procedures and our capital expenditure is reviewed against and financial statements is set out on page 95. of the following notifiable voting rights in our issued share capital: budgets and metrics which have been approved by the Board: and Number of % of issued Internal control and ordinary share Nature of we assess routinely the capability of our people to deliver the Name of holder shares capital holding risk management business objectives set and respond accordingly.
It is recognised Julian Dunkerton 20,696,788 25.4 Direct that there is a need to focus continually on succession planning In accordance with the guidance for Directors on internal Aberdeen Standard to ensure that, where there is a loss of key personnel, we have control, the Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, Investments 8,030,642 9.8 Indirect the ability to operate in both the short and long-term.
evaluating and managing the risks we face.
Superdry has a Risk James Holder 7,962,298 9.8 Direct Committee which was established by the Executive Committee, Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken Old Mutual Global with oversight provided by the Audit Committee.
The Risk where necessary to remedy any deficiencies identified through Investors 6,295,560 7.7 Indirect Committee meets monthly to review the risks identified and our internal control and risk management processes.
relevant controls, agree mitigating actions and discuss any new The information provided above was correct at the date of the notification.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the risks.
Where new risks are identified, they are scaled according It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since the effectiveness of internal controls during the year and confirms that: to their likelihood and potential impact, and then monitored.
However, notification of any change is not required These systems are in place to manage rather than eliminate risk until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and and can provide only reasonable and not complete assurance managing our significant risks: against material misstatement or loss.
The principal risks and this has been in place for financial year 2018 and up to uncertainties are reviewed twice each year by the Board.
the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial The role of the Executive Committee is to implement Board Statements: policies on risk and control and the Board has delegated daythe process is regularly reviewed by the Board: and to-day management to the Chief Executive Officer and, through the process accords with the Code.
him, to the other Executive Directors, members of the Executive Committee and other senior managers.
In addition, the Board also reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management process in the year which it felt was satisfactory.
A comprehensive control framework is in place which delegates authority for both financial and operational activities, the aim Political contributions being to increase the level of responsibility and embed a culture of compliance through the organisation.
The key elements of the We have not made any political donations during the year.
control framework and review processes are as follows: Directors indemnity insurance the Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives: We maintain Directors and Officers liability insurance which the Executive Committee integrates these objectives into gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against our their operational and financial business plans: Directors and or Officers.
In accordance with section 236 of the the Executive Committee meets regularly with senior Companies Act 2006, qualifying third party indemnity provisions managers.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board are in place for the Directors in respect of liabilities incurred as on behalf of the Executive Committee on significant changes a result of their office, as far as is permitted by law.
Both the in the business and the external environment.
The Chief insurance and indemnities applied throughout the year and Financial Officer provides the Board with financial information continue through to the date of the Directors Report.
which includes key performance and risk indicators: 65 Superdry Front Section.
indd 65 26 07 2018 16:58:30 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance Report Share capital Annual General Meeting Details of our share capital are set out in the Directors Report Our AGM will be held at the offices of Investec Bank plc, on page 92.
30Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP on Tuesday, 11 September 2017 commencing at 10.30am.
The notice of this years AGM is included in a separate circular to shareholders Going Concern and and will be sent out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Viability Statements This notice is available to view on corporate.
In Our business activities and growth strategy, together with factors accordance with the Code, all valid proxy appointments are likely to affect our future development, performance and position, properly recorded and counted, are made available at the AGM are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 59 and the and are published on our website after the meeting.
performance section on pages 44 to 49.
The notice of AGM sets out why we believe the Directors should be elected or re-elected, as appropriate.
Details of the Directors The Directors have reviewed our forecasts and projections.
service agreements and their letters of appointment are given in These include assumptions around our products, expenditure the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 91. commitments and expected cash flows.
Taking into account possible changes in trading performance and after making The Directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions to enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that we be presented at the AGM is in the best interests of the Company have adequate resources to continue our operations for the and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously foreseeable future.
For this reason, we have continued to adopt recommend that you vote in favour of each of the proposed the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their beneficial shareholdings.
The Directors have assessed our prospects over a four-year period.
Further details of the Viability Statement are provided on page 50.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Simon Callander Independent auditors Company Secretary On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors 4 July 2018 will put a resolution before the AGM to reappoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors for the financial year 2019.
Registered Office: Unit 60 The Runnings Cheltenham Gloucestershire GL51 9NW 66 Superdry Front Section.
