Nomination Committee report Activities in 2018 The Nomination Committee held one formal meeting during 2018 as well as meetings in combination with other formal meetings of the Board where it was appropriate to do so.
In addition, a number of informal meetings and telephone calls plus several interviews took Neil Johnson place in connection with the nomination process referred to below.
Nomination Committee Chair The Committee reviewed progress against the 2018 management succession action plan presented to the Board at the start of the year and initiated a review of the Board succession plan which will be completed during 2019.
Following Jinya Chens retirement Nomination Committee from the Board at the end of 2017 the Committee commenced a Since 1 January 2018 search for a replacement independent non-executive director.
The Number of Committee led the process for nominating Holly A.
Van Deursen as Appointment meetings an independent non-executive director which involved a thorough Position date attended review of a range of candidates put forward by an independent Neil Johnson Chair May 2012 1 1 recruitment consultancy, Egon Zehnder with which the Company Senior independent has no other connection.
The consultancy conducted an extensive Brendan Connolly non-executive director March 2014 1 1 search exercise and were briefed on the Boards policy on Independent nondiversity.
The Boards approval of the Committees nomination of Caroline Johnstone executive director April 2015 1 1 Holly A.
Van Deursen addressed outcomes from previous Board evaluation processes regarding the Board composition and was also in accordance with the Boards diversity policy.
Role Diversity The Committees remit includes responsibility for: The Board adopted its current policy on diversity in 2014 in recognition of the importance of diversity in strengthening The regular review of the structure, size and composition decision making and competitiveness.
This policy seeks to including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of ensure that diversity in its broadest sense is taken into account in theBoard and the making of recommendations with regard to the process of making appointments on merit against objective any changes: selection criteria.
Gender and ethnicity are acknowledged as leading the process for Board appointments and nominating significant elements of diversity and the Committee is mindful candidates for non-executive positions: and of the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander, Parker and considering succession planning for directors and senior McGregor-Smith Reviews but has not recommended to the Board executives and reviewing the succession plans put forward for the setting of quotas for female or other representation at this time.
ensuring the executive leadership needs of the Company are met.
A copy of the diversity policy is available at www.
Further details on the Companys approach to, and reporting on, diversity are contained within the Strategic report.
Neil Johnson Chair 4 March 2019 72 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018
