Strategic report IFC-57 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Governance 58-92 Audit Committee report business is developing and any issues faced by our people.
We are also pleased to hear how all levels of the business are involved in understanding and managing our business risks.
Feedback on these visits is provided to the Audit Committee and Board and we ask management to consider or address matters raised during our visits.
In 2019, Group management will reflect on the support given Caroline Johnstone by Group procurement to some of our smaller sites as a result of Audit Committee Chair feedback received.
During the year, the Group introduced a new Code of Conduct across all geographies and launched a new external Code of Audit Committee Membership Conduct and Ethics whistleblowing helpline which is outlined in Since 1 January 2018 more detail on page 66 and the Committee had oversight of this Number of work.
The new arrangements were rolled out in December 2018 Appointment meetings and the Board will monitor the implementation and use of the Code Position date attended of Conduct and helpline during 2019.
Caroline Johnstone Chair April 2015 4 4 Independent nonJust Jansz executive director May 2012 4 4 In 2019, the Committee will focus on the Groups internal control and risk management processes as well as reviewing our recent Senior independent Brendan Connolly non-executive director March 2014 4 4 acquisitions and capital investments, with a focus on payback Independent nonfrom these investments.
We will also have a general review of our Holly A.
Van Deursen executive director 1 March 2019 n a key accounting controls across the business and site reporting, particularly around costs.
Other attendees by invitation Company Secretary secretary to the We set out further details of our work in the following pages.
Chief Executive Officer Committee Chief Financial Officer Group Operational Review Manager On 1 March 2019, we added to the Committee and welcomed our Director of Group Finance External Auditors new independent non-executive director, Holly A.
Van Deursen, who brings significant industry experience.
I am happy to answer any questions the shareholders may have at any time and look forward to meeting those who attend the AGM.
Dear Shareholders I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year Caroline Johnstone ended 31 December 2018.
Audit Committee Chair 4 March 2019 As part of our core remit, the Committee has continued to focus on our oversight of the Groups internal control and risk management processes and the development of our finance, internal audit and other control functions.
This is particularly important as we realign our group structure from a regional to a global focus and as the risk environment continues to evolve, both in the UK and overseas.
In 2018, senior management from the Europe, Americas and Asia regions as well as Group procurement and trading, IT and manufacturing met with us to present the risks identified in their business area using the Groups risk management approach together with mitigating controls to manage the risks.
We also asked for regular updates to the Board on particular aspects from the developing procurement and trading function.
Alongside our formal meetings, members of the Committee visited our facility in Pasir Gudang Malaysia with the rest of the Board and had the opportunity to meet both staff and customers of the Asia business.
Members of the Committee also separately visited our Filago and SantAlbano sites in Italy as part of an ongoing programme of engagement with the business.
These visits enable us to meet with a wide range of employees to hear directly how the Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 67 Audit committee report continued In order to address our remit effectively, I believe it is important Committee membership and meetings to have those with the technical or business knowledge in our The Committee is made up of myself Chair, Brendan Connolly meetings and I am pleased that the Chief Executive Officer and and Just Jansz our experience is set out on pages 60 and the Chief Financial Officer both attend our Committee meetings as 61.
Van Deursen joined the Committee.
well as other senior members of the Group finance team and the Ihave recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes Group Operational Review Manager who leads the Internal Audit of Provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code as a function.
PwC, led by audit partner Matthew Mullins, also attend Chartered Accountant, my roles chairing other Audit Committees our meetings.
Other senior managers have regularly attended and my previous position as a partner at PwC.
Together, the Committee meetings in 2018, at our request.
Other members of the Committee members have a wide range of financial, operational Board have a standing invitation to attend meetings unless notified and commercial experience across the chemicals and engineering otherwise and we regularly have the full board in attendance.
sectors and the Board has agreed that the Committee has experience relevant to the sectors we operate in.
Activities during the year The Committee met formally four times during 2018 with the following principal activities: Feb Apr Aug Nov Financial reporting Full year results preliminary announcement and Annual Report Half year results and interim announcement Significant accounting judgements and estimates Going concern and viability statements Fair, balanced and understandable statement FRC updates and guidance Alternative Performance Measures Update on new accounting standards Internal controls and risk management Update and specific areas of risk review Formal review internal controls & risk assessment processes External audit Assessment of external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness Reappointment of external auditor Management representation letter Non-audit fees and services policy External audit plan Internal audit Reviewing internal audit reports, progress to plan, actions implementation Assessment of internal audit effectiveness Internal annual audit programme discussion and approval Other Interest rate risk review and refinancing Update on implementation of GDPR Review of mandatory training across the Group Revision of the Code of Conduct and whistleblowing helpline Tax strategy review and approval Report on whistleblowing, bribery & fraud prevention Review and update on the funding arrangements of the Groups pensions teach-in and update on global pension arrangements Review of transfer pricing arrangements across the Group Audit Committee workplan, report and terms of reference update Audit Committee evaluation and actions arising Specific areas of risk management review during the year included: Working capital, Business continuity planning Capital expenditure reviews, IT, including manufacturing control systems, Procurement The Group refinancing proposals were also presented at full Board meetings.
68 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report IFC-57 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Governance 58-92 The Committee also meets on a regular basis with PwC and satisfied with the assumptions used and with the way that the with the Group Operational Review Manager separately without schemes had been accounted for.
The Committee reviewed the management present.
The Committee meets privately as required assumptions and methodology used by management, including to discuss our views on matters such as how we see the company comparisons to those used by other companies and concurred culture developing and forthcoming agendas.
Purchase of business: In addition, outside of the formal meetings, I meet regularly on The accounting for the acquisition of the BASF Pischelsdorf SBR a one to one basis with the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief business Austria is shown in the note 31 to the accounts.
For Financial Officer, other senior members of the Group finance team the acquisition, the assets and liabilities have been included at and PwC to develop the Committees programme of work as well fair value with the balance of consideration shown as goodwill.
as review progress in addressing actions agreed by KPMG LLP were engaged to advise on the fair value of the the Committee.
property, plant and equipment PPE.
Overall, their conclusion was that the total fair value of the PPE was marginally higher than I also focus on ensuring that we have sufficient time to address key the carrying value, mainly in relation to Land and Buildings.
KPMG LLP also performed a valuation of the intangibles, of which the only one of significant value was the customer As set out in my introductory comments, members of the relationships.
The external auditors reviewed the work Committee visited Pasir Gudang Malaysia and also the undertaken by KPMG LLP.
The Committee reviewed the manufacturing sites in Italy during the year as part of an methodology used by KPMG LLP along with their conclusions ongoing programme of engagement with the business.
and discussed them with the external auditor.
The Committee concurred with managements view on the fair value of the The role and responsibilities acquired business.
of the Audit Committee The Committee has a detailed remit focused on the integrity of our During the year, we had regular updates on the likely impact of new financial reporting, internal controls and risk management, with accounting standards.
Several new accounting standards were oversight of both external and internal audit.
adopted in the year: The full terms of reference, reviewed and updated during the year, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments had no material impact on our results: are available on the Companys website www.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers management undertook a complete review of revenue Addressing our remit recognition in 2017, with a detailed questionnaire sent to all sites Significant areas of judgement and estimate and concluded that no material changes were required to how As part of our monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, the Group accounts for revenue: and the Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have IFRS 16 Leases will be adopted by the Group on 1 January been adopted and considers particular areas where management 2019 using the modified retrospective implementation method has had to exercise judgement or make estimates.
The main areas which was deemed the most appropriate and the required which we reviewed during the year ended 31 December 2018, disclosure is contained in the notes to the financial statements.
together with a summary of our work, are set out below: Fair, balanced and understandable Taxation: The work undertaken by management and reviewed by the With operations across eighteen countries, significant judgement Committee to support the Boards statement included: has to be exercised by management, with advice from appropriate tax advisors, to arrive at tax provisions, given that the final tax establishing a working group of key individuals, who are outcome is uncertain and may not be known for several years.
appropriately qualified, within the Group to oversee the drafting The Group Head of Tax presented to the Committee the basis for of the Annual Report: calculating the effective tax rate including whether any local tax the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer confirming audits were ongoing, and the rationale and judgement for each of that, in their opinion, the drafting of the Annual Report was fair, the provisions.
The Committee reflected on the provisions in the balanced and understandable: light of our Group tax strategy and also reflected on the work done where appropriate, requesting that certain key contributors to by the external auditor who also reviewed the judgements that had sections of the Annual Report for example, presidents and chief been made, using tax specialists as appropriate, and provided the financial officers of business units sign a declaration confirming Committee with their assessment of the appropriateness of the accuracy of the information provided: management judgements.
The Committee concurred with arranging for Deloitte LLP, the Companys remuneration managements view.
consultants, to review the Directors Remuneration Report and Pensions: having our design agency, Luminous, proofread drafts of the The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes whole Annual Report: particularly in the UK and Germany which have significant an audit trail was completed by the Director of Group Finance for liabilities as outlined in note 26 to the Group financial statements.
material data underpinning non-financial information in the Although the UK schemes were closed to future accrual during Annual Report: 2009, they are still sensitive to changes in actuarial assumptions.
circulating drafts of the Annual Report to PwC, the Committee The Group uses appropriately qualified external actuarial advisers and the Board for review: and to help establish the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of discussing material disclosure items at a meeting of the the Groups pension liabilities.
During their audit, the external Committee held in February 2019. auditor evaluated the assumptions and methodologies used by The Committee discussed the fair, balanced and understandable the Groups actuarial advisers and management and assessed statement at a meeting in February 2019 in the light of the above whether the assumptions made were appropriate and not and, having done so, recommended that the Board provide it in materially different from external benchmarks for similar types of the form set out on page 92. schemes.
The external auditors reported to us that they were Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 69 Audit committee report continued The Chair of the Committee was in regular discussion with PwCs Going concern lead audit partner to discuss the progress of the audit.
Ahead of The process conducted by management was reviewed by and following the conclusion of the February 2019 meeting, the the Committee to support the Boards statement the Committee met PwC without management being present: no process included: significant issues were raised.
Reviewing the Groups available sources of funding and, in Systems of risk management and internal particular, testing the covenant and assessing the available controls effectiveness headroom using a range of sensitivities.
Each year, the Board is required to conduct a review of the Reviewing the short, medium and long-term cash flow forecasts effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and in various severe but plausible scenarios.
The Boards statement about this review is set Assessing the level of available facilities, which are considered out on page 66.
At a meeting in February 2019, the Committee necessary to support the Groups ability to trade and deliver reviewed managements assessment of the key elements of these future growth.
systems and confirmed their overall effectiveness.
In forming its Assessing the Groups current and forecast activities, including any conclusion, the Committee reflected on matters such as: long-term contracts and order books, and those factors considered likely to affect its future performance and financial position.
The internal audit programme completed during 2018 and the The Committee discussed the going concern statement at a progress in implementing actions arising therefrom.
meeting in February 2019 and, having done so, recommended that Our own programme of risk reviews and discussions with senior the Board provide it in the form set out on page 91. managers across the Group throughout the year.
Assurance Committee papers, Board and Committee Viability statement presentations and discussions that management continued to The Board has chosen to consider the prospects of the Group review the Groups key financial controls to ensure that they over a five year period ending 31 December 2023, consistent with supported the Groups continued growth.
the five year Strategic Plan of the Group, as they consider it to be The key controls questionnaire, which is completed and signed a period over which the Group actively focuses on its long term by each operating unit across the Group on a quarterly basis.
product development and capital expenditure investments.
Half yearly representations from financial and commercial management in the business to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committees robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group included a review of the potential impact of severe but Whistleblowing plausible scenarios that could threaten the viability of the Group At each Committee meeting during the year, the Committee was and the potential mitigations that management believes would be provided details of the issues reported during the period and how available.
These scenarios included trading volatility, increased management had investigated them, together with any update competition, disruption as a result of Brexit, delays in capacity on ongoing investigations.
No material issues were reported improvement, failure of new products and the temporary loss of a during the year.
As discussed above, a new Code of Conduct manufacturing site.
They also included significant foreign currency and a new external whistleblowing helpline was implemented in exchange rate and interest rate movements, which are deemed to December2018.
be outside the control of the Group.
The Committee discussed the viability statement at a meeting in February 2019 and, having done Internal audit so, recommended that the Board provide it in the form set out on The Group Operational Review Manager who leads the internal page 37. audit function was appointed in 2016.
We have a dedicated and focused in-house internal audit function, which draws on specialist External audit resources as required.
At each meeting, the Committee reviewed At its meetings in November 2018 and February 2019, the progress against the internal audit annual plan and explored areas Committee discussed the 2018 audit process: identified for action.
The Committee also reviewed completed audit reports, focusing on recurring themes, which might require Outcome action taken group actions, and areas where there was divergence from selfNovember 2018 by the Committee assessments prepared.
PwCs audit plan Challenged and agreed by the Committee PwCs audit risk assessment discussed Discussed with PwC including To assess the effectiveness of internal audit, the Committee with key function and group managers the approach toidentified risks reflected on: Materiality level for the audit Agreed with PwC at a similar level to 2017, after reviewing Internal audit reports during the year.
local materiality, local statutory accounts required and site visits by PwC group team Feedback from operational and finance functions on the quality PwCs resources Reviewed and discussed with PwC, of the internal audit reports and activities in the form of a in particular, the experience of PwC questionnaire, which was circulated to key managers.
audit partners in our key territories Compliance with appropriate internal audit professional Audit fee and terms of engagement Reviewed, challenged and standards.
approved by the Committee Implementation of internal audit recommendations.
February 2019 Confirmation of PwCs audit plan PwC confirmed no material changes made to agreed plan Audit findings, significant issues andother Discussed with PwC andmanagement accounting judgements Management representation letter Reviewed and approved bytheCommittee PwCs independence and objectivity and Independence and objectivity confirmed: quality control procedures quality control procedures reviewed 70 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report IFC-57 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Governance 58-92 Responses to the questionnaire included positive feedback around Effectiveness of the external audit planning and quality of internal audit and there was a request During the year the Committee evaluated the performance and to engage local language resources to make the audits more effectiveness of the external auditors, PwC and Matthew Mullins, efficient.
In the coming year, the function will focus on concluding our audit partner.
Feedback was obtained from people across the audit reporting process and ensuring implementation of the business who were involved with the external audit and the recommendations on a timely basis.
On the basis of our review, the Committee reflected on the effectiveness of Matthew Mullins and Committee concluded that the function was operating effectively team members, both in Committee meetings and in discussions although we continue to review the resources required for the with the Audit Committee Chair.
The Committee assessed the robustness of the audit, the The internal audit plan for 2019 was reviewed at our meeting in quality of delivery of the audit against the agreed plan and the November 2018 and includes auditing areas which account for more competence with which the auditors handled key accounting than 85% of operating profit as well as certain key central functions estimates and judgements.
such as capital expenditure approval processes and compliance.
Specialists will be included in a number of audits as appropriate.
We also reviewed the FRCs report highlighting their conclusions from a review of a selection of PwC audits.
External audit relationship Auditor objectivity and independence and Having considered all of these factors the Committee concluded non-audit services provided by the auditor that the external auditors were effective.
With effect from 1 January 2018, the Committee adopted a revised policy on the provision of nonaudit services by the external Re-appointment of the auditor auditor.
We have more clearly defined the very limited non-audit PwC was re-appointed external auditor in 2016, following a services which can be provided by the external auditors.
Services full retender process, having been the Groups auditors since can only be provided if approved by the Committee and subject to 2012.
Having assessed the effectiveness of the external audit a cap of 70% of the average of audit fees for the preceding three referred to above and the independence of PwC, the Committee years with discretion to exceed this until January 2020.
The recommends the re-appointment of PwC at the 2019 Annual policy is in compliance with the FRC Ethical Standard for Auditors General Meeting.
effective from April 2017 and a full copy of our policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor is available Statement of compliance on the Company website.
com The Committee confirms that, during the year ended 31 December 2018, the Company complied with the applicable provisions Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor in 2018 are of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit set out in note 8 on page 117.
Non-audit fees principally relate Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory to reporting accounting work on the aborted bond offering and Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee to the interim review at the half year.
The Committee concluded Responsibilities Order 2014. that PwCs independence and objectivity was not compromised by providing these services and that, as a result of its knowledge Committee evaluation of the Group and its financial statements, it was in the Groups In 2018, we undertook a thorough internal evaluation of the interests to engage PwC to do so.
Committees performance using a questionnaire process, with input from regular attendees as well as the Committee members.
As part of the 2018 audit, PwC confirmed that it was independent We covered all aspects of the Committees agenda and approach, within the meaning of applicable regulatory and professional including composition, remit and culture of the Committee.
Taking this into account and having considered feedback was positive about our progress in overseeing and the steps taken by PwC to preserve its independence and the challenging the systems of risk management and supportive of approach to non-audit services set out above, the Committee continuing to develop this in 2019.
Like most businesses, we continue concluded that PwC continues to demonstrate appropriate to consider the appropriate level of internal audit resource and this will independence and objectivity.
be closely monitored as we continue to grow and develop.
