Corporate governance Division of Responsibilities Chairman primarily responsible for the working and effectiveness of the Board facilitating an effective contribution from the non-executive directors and a constructive relationship with the executive directors ensuring the balance of membership of the Board is appropriate ensuring that the Board is in full control of the Groups affairs and has an effective dialogue with its shareholders leading on all aspects of corporate governance Chief Executive senior executive responsible for operational management of the Group Officer development, preparation and implementation of the Groups strategy as approved by the Board communication of the Groups culture and values communicating the Groups financial performance to investors in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer keeping the Board fully informed of all material issues Senior Independent to be available to shareholders when concerns have not been resolved through normal channels Director to lead the annual appraisal of the Chairman to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders to provide a sounding board for the Chairman Non-executive to bring an independent and objective judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources of Directors the Group to challenge constructively and scrutinise management performance Board reserved setting of long term objectives and strategies to be employed in achieving them including the approval matters of annual budgets policy setting for safety, health and environmental matters, business conduct, diversity and human rights, recruitment and employment, risk management and treasury material decisions on capital raising, financial commitments, capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals and the prosecution, defence and settlement of litigation approval of information contained in communications to shareholders the review and monitoring of performance Board structure Board Audit Committee Disclosure Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Company Secretary provides advice and services to the Board and its Committees supports the Chairman in all governance matters CEO Executive Committee Chief Financial Company Secretary President President President Industrial President President Officer & Chief Counsel Performance Functional Solutions Specialities, M&A Corporate Operations Elastomers and Global HR Development 62 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report IFC-57 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Governance 58-92 During 2018 the Board held nine meetings with an additional In addition, arrangements are made each year for the Board to half day dedicated to an annual strategy development review.
visit up to two of the Groups operational sites and meet local The directors receive in advance full information on all matters management.
Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for individual nonto be discussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed review executive directors on request.
During 2018 the Board held one of performance.
The non-executive directors met once without of its meetings in Malaysia and in conjunction with that meeting the Chairman to appraise his performance.
The Board met once attended the opening ceremony for the latest phase of the Groups without the executive directors to appraise their performance.
Nitrile latex capacity expansion in Pasir Gudang.
Presentations were given by local senior management on strategic issues relating to the Groups Asian businesses during the visit.
Board activity in 2018 Safety, health and environment Investing in Innovation organicgrowth Internal control Growth through and risk acquisition management Governance Financial and stakeholder performance relations Leadership and people Board activity in 2018 Framework focused on strategy Safety, health and environment SHE Financial performance Governance and stakeholder relations SHE performance and initiatives are Financial, operational performance Routine reports on governance and reviewed at every meeting supported by and strategic initiatives are reviewed at investor relations matters were given a written report and presentation by the every meeting supported by reports and at each meeting.
The progress and President for Operations.
presentations from the executive directors implementation of UK legislative and and presidents.
Detailed reviews of specific regulatory corporate governance reforms Investing in organic growth business areas were provided by the during the course of the year were Material capital expenditure projects are responsible president or functional head monitored and the Boards response was subject to Board review and approval.
in conjunction with budget and strategy developed.
An internal evaluation of the During the year investment in a new discussions and capital expenditure project Board and its Committees was carried out.
innovation centre for the Asian region reviews.
Proposals for the refinancing of located in Johor Bahru, Malaysia, and the Groups main borrowing facilities were Internal control and risk management capacity expansion projects at sites in the reviewed and approved.
As well as receiving regular reports from UK, France, and the USA were approved.
the Audit Committee on the Companys Progress on the major capacity expansion Leadership and people internal control and risk management projects approved in 2016 at sites in Succession planning processes and processes particular attention was paid to Malaysia and Germany were monitored progress were reviewed with support from Brexit contingency planning.
Regular reports were received from the Chief Executive Innovation Growth through acquisition Officer on planning for the introduction As a core pillar of business growth the The final review of the integration of the new global business structure global innovation function and its resources and synergy achievement of the PAC which was implemented with effect from together with the product development Dispersions acquisition which completed 1 January 2019.
The recommendation of the pipeline was reviewed at the annual in June 2016 was carried out.
Reports Nomination Committee for the appointment strategy development meeting.
were received on the integration of the of an additional independent non-executive Speciality Additives and BASF Pischelsdorf director was approved.
Several acquisition The Board visited the Groups Nitrile latex opportunities were reviewed and the deal plant at Pasir Gudang Malaysia.
A visit was log was considered at each meeting.
also made by some of the non-executive directors to the Groups plants in Italy.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 63 Corporate governance continued Non-executive directors are appointed for one-year terms.
All Board membership and balance directors submit themselves for annual election at each Annual The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and General Meeting.
Senior Independent Director together with Chairs and members of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Disclosure Committees The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board, are identified on pages 60 and 61.
The Board considers that Holly A.
Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Disclosure Committees Van Deursen, Caroline Johnstone, Just Jansz and Brendan Connolly held during the year and the number of meetings attended by are independent in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Where a director is unable to attend a Board The Board composition remained unchanged until the appointment or Committee meeting his or her views on agenda items are of Holly A.
Van Deursen on 21 September 2018 which addressed canvassed in advance of the meeting and incorporated into the the imbalance between the number of independent and nondiscussions.
The non-executive directors disclose to the Board independent directors which had pertained since 1 January 2018. their other significant commitments.
Board Committees Called at Scheduled short notice Audit Remuneration Nomination Disclosure Number of meetings held 6 3 4 3 1 6 Number of meetings attended Stephen Bennett 6 6 3 3 N A N A N A 6 6 Alex Catto 6 6 3 3 N A N A N A N A Brendan Connolly 6 6 3 3 4 4 3 3 1 1 6 6 Holly A.
Van Deursen 1 1 N A N A N A N A N A Just Jansz 6 6 3 3 4 4 3 3 N A N A Neil Johnson 6 6 3 3 N A N A 1 1 6 6 Caroline Johnstone 6 6 3 3 4 4 3 3 1 1 N A Lee Hau Hian 6 6 1 3 N A N A N A N A Calum MacLean 6 6 3 3 N A N A N A 6 6 Two Board meetings were called at short notice to consider the terms of the refinancing of the Groups main borrowing facilities which Lee Hau Hian was unable to join.
He was however fully briefed and provided with relevant supporting papers and documentations and his views on the matters discussed were obtained in advance of both meetings.
Induction and training Performance evaluation Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure Following the externally facilitated evaluation of the performance new directors receive a full formal and tailored induction on of the Board, its Committees and directors carried out in 2017 the appointment.
Following the appointment of Holly A.
Van Deursen, performance evaluation carried out in 2018 involved the following induction requirements were discussed and agreed and internal processes: commenced in November 2018 with briefings from the Companys the performance of the executive directors was reviewed against lawyers and auditors on the UK regulatory regime for listed their personal objectives for 2018 by the non-executive directors companies and governance and corporate reporting requirements and the Chairman: respectively.
Meetings were also arranged with members of the Executive Committee and functional leaders to give an overview a meeting of the non-executive directors in the absence of the of the Groups operations, markets and head office departments.
Chairman chaired by the Senior Independent Director was held Arrangements will be made with Holly in 2019 for selected to evaluate the performance of the Chairman, taking into account site visits.
The Chairman reviews and agrees the training and the views of the executive directors: development needs of the directors and the skills and knowledge the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees Audit, of the Board as a whole are updated by briefings provided by Nomination, Remuneration was evaluated by way of an internal the Companys internal resources and materials, workshops and self-assessment questionnaire process: and seminars offered by external advisers.
During 2018 briefings were delivered to the Board on developments in corporate governance an assessment of the performance of individual non-executive reporting and to the Remuneration Committee on governance and directors was carried out informally by the Chairman.
The Audit Committee was provided with updates on governance and corporate reporting by PwC and a UK pensions workshop was held by Lane Clark & Peacock LLP.
64 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report IFC-57 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Governance 58-92 The Chief Executive Officer reports on shareholder relations at Board and Committee evaluation process each Board meeting.
Communications with shareholders relating The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees was assessed to corporate governance matters are conducted by the Chairman internally in 2018.
Questionnaires were developed and produced with the assistance of the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration by the Company Secretary in conjunction with the Chairman Committees.
Reports on all meetings between non-executive of the Board and the Chair of each of the Audit, Remuneration directors and institutional shareholders and their representative and Nomination Committees.
The questionnaire comprised bodies are given to the Board at the first opportunity following such open questions on the workings and effectiveness of the Board meetings, as is all correspondence with them.
All directors were requested to complete questionnaires relating to the Board and each of the Committees.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they In addition regular attendees from management at the Audit have concerns and where contact through the normal channels of Committee meetings were also requested to complete the the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve or questionnaire relating to that Committee.
A report was prepared for which such contact is inappropriate.
by the Company Secretary for the Chairman of the Board and the Committee Chairs and the results of the evaluations were reviewed The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, and discussed at the Committee and Board meetings held in and in particular private investors, at the Companys Annual February 2019.
The outcome of that process is reviewed in the General Meeting and endeavours to ensure all Board members Chairmans letter on page 58. are in attendance.
In particular, the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
Board Committees The Board has formally established Audit, Nomination, The Company makes use of its website www.
com to Remuneration and Disclosure Committees, each with their own communicate with its shareholders and also publishes half and full terms of reference which set out their respective roles and the year results, Company announcements, share price and corporate authority delegated to them by the Board.
Copies of the terms of governance and other investor information there.
reference are available upon request from the Company Secretary and can also be downloaded from the Companys website.
Information on the Companys major shareholdings and share All non-executive directors have a standing invitation to attend capital is included in the Report of the Directors on pages 89 to91.
Committee meetings unless they are notified otherwise.
Accountability The Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee reports are An explanation of the directors responsibilities for preparing the set out at the end of this Corporate Governance report.
financial statements, their report that the business is a going concern, a viability statement, a responsibility statement and their Relations with shareholders statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor are set out Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular on pages 90 to 92.
Statements by the auditor about its reporting basis by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and responsibilities are set out on pages 93 to 99. the President Corporate Development and meetings take place following the announcement of half and full year results and at A report on the approach to internal control is set out on the other times according to circumstances.
In addition to half and full next page.
The directors endeavour to make the Annual Report year reporting, the Board has decided to continue with the practice and financial statements as informative and understandable of providing interim management statements notwithstanding that aspossible.
it is no longer a regulatory requirement to do so.
The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication principles in order to ensure that Board members develop an understanding of the views of the Groups major shareholders.
These principles require the Chairman to be present with the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer at sufficient shareholder presentations and meetings that he fully understands the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Alternatively, the Chairman is also available for meetings with major shareholders at their request.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 65 Corporate governance continued Risk management and internal control Safety, health and environmental matters The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the Groups The maintenance of high standards of environmental together with systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing health and safety protection is central to the Groups business.
their effectiveness and sets appropriate policies to ensure that A separate statement on safety, health and environmental SHE the Code requirements are met.
The systems of risk management matters has been a feature of the Annual Report for a number of and internal control deployed within the Group are designed years and is contained in the Sustainability section of the Strategic to reduce the risks of failure to meet business objectives, but Report on pages 44 to 57. these risks cannot be eliminated.
The risk management and internal control systems adopted can therefore only provide Code of Conduct reasonable, not absolute, assurance about meeting such business During 2018 the Groups explanation and communication of its objectives or against material misstatement or loss.
The Group standards for conducting business, people policies and corporate risk management framework is set out on pages 32 to 37.
Risks citizenship responsibilities were reviewed leading to the launch associated with safety, health and the environment are, by the of a consolidated and updated Code of Conduct toward the nature of the Groups business, always of the utmost concern end of the year.
The revised Code of Conduct was published in and the Sustainability report on pages 44 to 57 reviews the thirteen languages in interactive online and hard copy formats Groups performance in this regard in 2018.
The Board confirms and delivered to all of the Groups employees by e-mail and that a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group or hard copy.
Code of Conduct champions were appointed has been carried out and that it has monitored and reviewed the in each country in which the Group operates to assist with the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control launch at a local level.
In order to support the values contained in systems in 2018. the Code of Conduct and promote the Groups open culture, an externally hosted whistleblowing helpline, which can be accessed The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and by telephone and online, was put in place in conjunction with the consolidation processes are designed under the supervision of the launch of the Code of Conduct.
The whistleblowing helpline offers Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding all Group employees and stakeholders an anonymous platform the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair where legally able to do so available at all times to report unlawful presentation of the Groups published financial statements for or unethical behaviour, workplace incidents or concerns and to external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
raise any queries regarding the application of the Code of Conduct.
The processes which are used by the Board either directly or, During 2019 workshops will be held across the Group to reinforce where appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review the the importance of applying the highest ethical standards set out in effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems the Code of Conduct.
in relation to the financial reporting process and the process for preparing consolidated accounts include the following: The Code of Conduct which also contains details of how to access the whistleblowing helpline is available at a review of the external and internal audit work plans: www.
In accordance with the 2018 UK consideration of reports from management and external parties, Corporate Governance Code the Board will undertake a regular including the internal and external auditors, on the system of review of the operation of the helpline, the reports arising from internal financial control and any material control weaknesses: it and the arrangements in place for their investigation and any follow-up actions.
discussion with management of the actions taken on any possible problem areas for the business that are identified.
Further details of the standards, policies, practices and responsibilities contained in the Code and their application are In addition, the Board: contained in the Sustainability section of the Strategic Report on receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee pages 48 and 49. meetings: receives regular written and oral reports from management on all aspects of production, operations, financial and risk management matters.
