Board of Directors N A Johnson C G MacLean Chairman Chief Executive Officer Nationality: British Nationality: British Position and date of appointment: Chairman of Position and date of appointment: Chief Executive the Board and the Nomination and Disclosure Officer since January 2015: member of the Committees.
Neil joined the Board in 2011 and was Disclosure Committee.
Key appointments: Calum was appointed as a Key appointments: Neil is Chairman of Motability non-executive director of Saudi Basic Industries Operations Group plc retiring April 2019, Centaur SABIC headquartered in Riyadh in October 2017 Media plc and Electra Private Equity plc and the and of Clariant Limited, an associated company of senior independent non-executive director of the SABIC, in October 2018. Business Growth Fund.
Skills and experience: Calum was previously a Skills and experience: Neil held senior executive senior board executive of INEOS and was a founder positions at British Aerospace and in the UK motor member of the business in 1998.
At INEOS he was manufacturing industry before becoming Chief executive chairman of INEOS Olefins and Polymers Executive of RAC Holdings from 1995-1999.
Europe and chairman of Styrolution, INEOSs joint Neil has considerable experience as an venture with BASF, and Petroineos Refining, INEOSs independent non-executive director and public joint venture with PetroChina.
Calum had been Chief company chairman gained in multiple sectors Executive of a number of its principal business units and geographies.
and actively involved in merger and acquisitions strategy and implementation.
Prior to INEOS, he spent six years at Inspec International Speciality Chemicals, a publicly listed company on the London Stock Exchange that was originally formed through a management buyout of BP Chemicals.
Dr J J C Jansz C A Johnstone Dato Lee Hau Hian Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Non-executive director Nationality: Dutch Nationality: British Nationality: Malaysian Position and date of appointment: Independent Position and date of appointment: Independent Position and date of appointment: non-executive director since April 2012: member of non-executive director since March 2015: Chair of Non-executive director since 2002: first joined the the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
the Audit Committee: member of the Nomination board in 1993 and stood down in 2000 to become Key appointments: Just is founder and managing and Remuneration Committees.
director of Expertise Beyond Borders BV, an Key appointments: Caroline is Chair of Reece Key appointments: Hau Hian is a director of Kuala independent business and technology Group Limited, non-executive director and Chair of Lumpur Kepong Bhd and is the president of the management consultancy providing services to the the Audit Committee of Shepherd Building Group Perak Chinese Maternity Association.
He also global chemical industry.
He is Chairman of Econic Limited and is a member of the governing council of serves as a director of Yayasan fide La Salle.
Technologies Limited and a senior advisor at the University of Leeds.
She was appointed as a Skills and experience: Hau Hian is the managing Natrium Capital Limited.
non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering director of Batu Kawan Bhd, a listed Malaysian Skills and experience: Just has over 30 years plc with effect from 1 March 2019.
She also investments holding company, with interests in chemical industry experience at Shell, Basell and provides consulting services to a range of global plantations and chemicals manufacturing.
Until July 2010 Just was president, chemical and industrial organisations.
Technology Business, and a member of the Skills and experience: Caroline is a chartered management team of LyondellBasell, overseeing accountant and member of the Institute of process technology licensing, polyolefin catalysts Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
She was a and new ventures.
Just has extensive experience in partner in  PwC until the polyolefin industry and related value chains, in 2009, having worked extensively with large global commercialising innovation and in monetising IP.
organisations on turnaround, culture change, Just has previous experience as a non-executive delivering value from mergers and acquisitions and director in the US and as an advisor in Saudi Arabia.
She sat on the board of the Assurance practice of PwC in the UK.
60 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report IFC-57 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Governance 58-92 S G Bennett B W D Connolly The Hon.
A G Catto Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Position and date of appointment: Chief Position and date of appointment: Position and date of appointment: Independent FinancialOfficer since May 2015: member of Non-executive director since 1981. non-executive director since January 2014: Chair of theDisclosure Committee.
the Remuneration Committee: member of the Key appointments: Alex is managing director of Key appointments: No external appointments.
CairnSea Investments Limited, a private investment Audit, Disclosure and Nomination Committees.
Skills and experience: Stephen was previously at company, and a non-executive director of several Senior Independent Director since April 2015.
INEOS where he had been Chief Financial Officer at early stage companies that have been backed by Key appointments: Brendan is a non-executive Petroineos Refining since 2006.
In addition to this director of Victrex PLC and two private equity CairnSea.
His current other directorships include role, Stephen had acted as Chief Financial Officer Neptune Investment Management Limited.
backed companies, one of which he chairs.
of INEOS Upstream Limited, a start-up oil and gas Skills and experience: Prior to the establishment of Skills and experience: Brendan has over 30 years exploration business, and of INEOS Olefins and CairnSea Alex was a director of Morgan Grenfell & experience in the oil and gas industry.
Until June Polymers South and INEOS Phenol.
He joined 2013 Brendan was a senior executive at Intertek Co and then Lazard Brothers & Co Ltd. Coopers & Lybrand in 1986 and is a qualified Group plc and had previously been chief executive chartered accountant.
He was at Full Circle officer of Moody International which was acquired Industries plc as company secretary by Intertek in 2011.
Prior to Moody, he was and group controller before moving to managing director of Atos Origin UK, and spent  LLP PwC in 1997 more than 25 years of his career with Schlumberger as a director in transaction services.
At PwC, he in senior international roles over three continents.
specialised in public and private equity transactions Brendan has previous experience as chairman of the across a variety of sectors including chemicals.
remuneration committee of a UK listed company.
H A Van Deursen R Atkinson Independent non-executive director Chief Counsel & Company Nationality: American Secretary Position and date of appointment: Independent Nationality: British non-executive director since September 2018: Position and date of appointment: Company member of the Audit and Remuneration Secretary since 1998: Group Chief Counsel.
Key appointments: No external appointments.
Key appointments: Holly is a non-executive Skills and experience: Richard qualified as a director of Bemis Company, Capstone Turbine solicitor in 1988 practising as a corporate lawyer Corporation and Actuant Corporation.
Skills and experience: Until 2005, Holly was Group Vice President, Petrochemicals, at BP.
She has worked in the global chemical industry for over 25years and held senior positions across North America, Europe and Asia.
In addition, Holly has 11years experience as a non-executive director in theUSA.
