Audit Committee report During the year, the formal calendar of items considered at each Audit Committee meeting within the annual cycle encompassed theCode requirements to: On behalf of the Board, I am monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company pleased to present the Audit and review significant financial reporting judgements made bymanagement: Committee Report for 2018. disclose the significant issues that the Committee considered John Allwood inrelation to the financial statements and how these issues Audit Committee Chairman wereaddressed: confirm that the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, to ensure that the narrative sections of the report are consistent with the financial statements and accurately reflect the Groupsperformance: During the year, the Committee comprised the following independent review the Companys internal financial controls and its NonExecutive Directors: John Allwood Chairman, Ian West, Cath Keers, internalcontrol and risk management systems and to make Nigel Langstaff appointed 15 November 2017 and James Powell.
recommendations to the Board: The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board, following each review the Companys arrangements by which employees may Committee meeting, on any significant issues that may have arisen.
raise concerns in confidence: In addition, the Chairman of the Committee is happy to make himself monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal available to investors on request.
During the year, all requirements audit function and review the output and findings of the internal ofthe Code in respect of the Committee were met.
audit team: The Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive Officer and the make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, Chief Operating Officer as well as representatives of the Companys reappointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve external auditor and other members of senior management from its remuneration and terms of engagement: Finance, Legal and Internal Audit and Risk also attend these meetings by invitation of the Committee or the Chairman.
The external and review the Companys policy on the engagement of the external internal auditors have direct access to the Committee during formal auditor to supply nonaudit services: meetings and time is set aside for them to have private discussion review and monitor the external auditors independence and with the Committee, in the absence of management attendees.
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into Inaddition, the external auditors have access as required outside consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: formal meetings.
disclose how the Committee has assessed the effectiveness of John Allwood and Nigel Langstaff are the members of the Committee theexternal audit process and provide information on the length with relevant and recent financial experience as recognised by the oftenure of the current audit firm: and Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies, although all members are expected to be financially literate and have an understanding of: review and approve changes to the Companys accounting policies.
the principles of, contents of and developments in financial reporting, The Committees remit requires it to report to the Board, identifying any accounting standards and statements of recommended practice matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement including the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures isneeded and to make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
APMs, issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority : key aspects of the Companys operations: matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts andkey financial information: the principles of, and developments in, key applicable company lawand other legislation relevant to the Company: the role of internal and external audit and risk management: the regulatory framework of the Companys business: and environmental and social responsibility best reporting practices.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 39 Corporate governance Audit Committee report continued Significant issues The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee in the current year were as follows: Significant issue considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee The appropriateness The Committee considered and challenged papers and analysis prepared by management and, taking of preparing the Group intoaccount managements assumptions and the external auditors review of these papers, concluded financial statements for thatmanagements recommendation to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis is the half year and full year appropriate.
The Committee also considered and challenged managements approach to the viability on a going concern basis statement, including the period of review, other sources of finance, risk factors and commitments, key and the viability statement judgements and estimates in preparing the Group financial statements, sensitivities, and mitigating actions, and concluded that the external disclosure for both the going concern assessment and viability statement isappropriate.
The treatment and The Committee considered and challenged managements approach and presentation of separately disclosure of non-Headline disclosed nonHeadline items and alternative performance measures including the refinement of the items and alternative Group's nonHeadline Policy.
In particular, the Committee considered whether the recognition of service performance measures level related credits should be included in Headline performance, consistent with the recognition of the associated costs for which the Group is being compensated.
The Committee also considered whether theMVNO operating loss relating to an existing business should be recognised within nonHeadline results.
The Committee also considered the views of the external auditor on managements policy and its application during the year.
Ateach meeting the Committee reviewed a paper prepared by management on actual and forecast levels ofnonHeadline items, including the nature of all the items and the balance of income and cost between nonHeadline and Headline earnings.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and agreed the disclosure for inclusion in the consolidated financial statements in relation to nonHeadline items and alternative performance measures taking into account the Guidelines on APMs issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA and the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Revenue share The Committee reviewed and challenged managements judgement on the application and interpretation arrangements with ofa revenue share arrangement that includes periodic retrospective reviews.
Such reviews ensure that the thirdparties revenue share and related reimbursement on customer acquisition is recognised based upon customer churn data and costs for each accounting period and is recognised within the appropriate financial period.
The Committee agreed with the conclusion.
Revenue recognition The key areas of judgement in recognising revenue is the identification of revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables and hardware sales to third parties involved in outsourcing its customer acquisition activity.
When the Group sells a number of products within a bundled transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative fair values and limited to the amounts billed for that element.
In addition, hardware sales to third parties involved in outsourcing its customer acquisition activity are recognised when the risk and rewards of the related hardware are transferred to the outsourced third party.
The Committee reviewed and challenged managements papers on the accounting treatment and agreed with the conclusion.
The recognition of revenue is also dependent on the Groups IT systems and infrastructure.
During the year, the Committee considered any relevant IT control weakness and related mitigating controls and determined that the processes in place were reasonable.
Supplier rebate income The Committee reviewed the level and application of the recognition policy of supplier rebate income and and income received in income received in relation to service level related credits during the year, an area of inherent risk due to the relation to service level complexity of the arrangements and the judgement applied by management to ensure that the income is related disputes recognised in the appropriate period.
This review required an understanding of the nature of any significant transactions and adherence to the Groups accounting policies.
In particular the Committee considered managements assessment of the quantification of service level related credits that may be subject to regulatory guidance, legal ruling or alternative dispute resolution processes.
As a result of the review, without prejudice to the Groups legal position, the Committee concluded that the income had been appropriately recorded.
Taxation The key judgement in relation to taxation relates to the assumptions made in recognising deferred tax assets.
The value of deferred tax asset may be uncertain as the extent to which tax losses can be utilised, depends on future taxable profits and on tax legislation then in force.
Recovery of the deferred tax asset relating to tax losses is estimated over a tenyear time horizon using an extrapolation of the Boardapproved three year plan.
The Committee reviewed and challenged managements paper, which outlines the key principles and judgements used in the calculation, and agreed with the recognition of the asset accordingly.
40 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Significant issue considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee Non-current assets and The Groups assets include internal capitalised costs incurred in relation to the development of software impairment review and other assets for internal use.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the Groups capitalisation policy and the judgements applied in relation to impairment testing and agreed with the conclusions reached by management.
Statement of Directors in respect of the The Companys policy is to comply with the Code, which includes arequirement to put external audit out the tender at least once Annual Report and Accounts As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that the Annual Report every ten years, In accordance with the Competition and Markets Authority CMA Statutory Audit Services Order, which is designed and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess toalign with provision of the EU Regulations on external audit tender and rotation, and current guidance, the Company is required to the Companys position, business model and strategy.
In particular, the Directors have considered the balance of income and costs conduct a competitive audit tender by June 2023.
This will be the latest period that Deloitte LLP may remain as auditor.
The Committee between Headline and nonHeadline earnings and the refinement ofthe Group's policy and disclosure in relation to nonHeadline will continue to evaluate annually the performance of the auditor, in particular at each fiveyear rotation of the lead audit partner, and will items and Alternative Performance Measures see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
When arriving at this position recommend a tender for this service if the circumstances so warrant.
the Board was assisted by a number of processes including: The policy relating to the provision of nonaudit services by the external the Annual Report and Accounts drafted by appropriate senior auditor specifies the types of work from which the external auditor employees across all areas of the business with overall supervision isexcluded: for which the external auditor can be engaged without being provided by the Chief Financial Officer, to ensure the report referral to the Committee: and for which a case by case decision is consistent across all sections: isrequired.
In order to safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence, the ratio of nonaudit fees to audit fees is monitored a comprehensive verification process is undertaken to ensure the by the Committee.
Any work proposed in excess of 50% ofthe audit factual accuracy of the entire Annual Report: fee is referred to the Committee.
Amounts below this arediscussed complete reviews of drafts of the report are undertaken by the with the Chairman of the Committee.
AuditCommittee: and A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from the external the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to final auditor during the period is set out below: 2018 2017 consideration by the Board.
m m External audit Fees payable to the Companys The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation auditor for the audit of the Companys and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit, which Annual Report and Accounts 0.1 0.1 assigns responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity Audit of the Group and its subsidiaries and compliance by the external auditor to the Committee.
pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.5 In the year ended 31 March 2018, the Audit Committee discussed Audit services provided to all the effectiveness of the external audit process and audit quality with Groupcompanies 0.7 0.6 theother attendees of the Audit Committee meeting.
Based on the Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 results of the auditor assessment carried out in the year, the Audit Total Group auditors remuneration 0.8 0.7 Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness and quality of the external audit process.
Following the During the year, the Group incurred nonaudit fees of 0.1m for interim 2018 audit, the auditor assessment will again be completed by each review procedures.
Having undertaken areview of the nonaudit related member of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and work, the Committee has satisfied itself that the services undertaken other members of senior management who are invited to attend during the year did not prejudice the external auditors independence.
The assessment covers all aspects of the audit process, from the audit partners interaction with the Audit Committee, through to the planning and delivery of the audit.
The feedback from this process will be considered by the Audit Committee and provided toboth the auditor and to senior management.
John Allwood The Committee continues to consider the appropriateness of the Audit Committee Chairman reappointment of the external auditor, including rotation of the audit 24 May 2018 partner.
Deloitte LLP has been the Companys external auditor since August 2002, prior to TalkTalks demerger from Carphone Warehouse plc.
The lead audit partner, Sharon Thorne, stood down in the current year and has been succeeded by Katie Houldsworth.
Katie Houldsworth shadowed Sharon Thorne and attended the Audit Committee meetings at the interim to allow for a smooth transition.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 41
