Corporate governance Corporate governance Chairmans introduction An integral part of the Boards role is to define the long term strategic goals for the Group, whilst ensuring a strong corporate governance framework within which the Group can effectively operate in order to achieve its objectives.
As the Chairman, a fundamental part of my role given the evolving landscape of corporate governance is to ensure that I create a culture of transparency which enables the Company to have an effective Board in which all members are able to contribute and challenge openly.
Our Board allows us to draw on a diverse range of professional skills and qualities which enables each Director to bring a particular and often unique perspective to every discussion, shaped by their backgrounds in a number of industries over many years.
This culture of openness in the Company always provides for the best collective outcome and helps underpin the Boards commitment as a whole to rigorous scrutiny and analysis of the Groups key issues and opportunities.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Company and because he was previously Chief Executive Officer governance and, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK ofThe Carphone Warehouse Group plc in which the Company was Listing Authority, the Board confirms that in respect of the year created.
Notwithstanding the above the Company is still able to ended 31 March 2018 the Company has complied with the ongoing carry on an independent business as its main activity at all times.
provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code issued by In respect of Sir Charles Dunstones controlling shareholding the the Financial Reporting Council and available at www.
uk Company had entered into a written and legally binding agreement theCode.
The Chairman was not considered independent pursuant with Sir Charles Dunstone in compliance with Listing Rule 9.2.
3.1 of the Code on his appointment to the Board in 2010 However, following the Companys share placement during the year as explained below.
his percentage shareholding is now under 30%, and therefore is no longer required.
Board balance and independence This section of the Annual Report, together with the Strategic Report, The Chairman and the Executive Directors have service contracts provides details of how the Company has applied the principles and that can be terminated by either the Company or the Director on complied with the provisions of the Code and its five key principles: twelve months notice.
Further, the NonExecutive Directors are leadership, effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations expected to serve for an initial period of three years, albeit either with shareholders.
party may terminate the appointment on three months notice with no compensation for loss of office.
After each three year period, Taking into account the changes to the Board during the year, which thecontracts automatically renew.
These initial three year periods are described below, at 31 March 2018, the Board had twelve members.
commenced on 20 January 2010, with the following exceptions: In accordance with Section B.
1.2 of the Code at least half of the Board IanWest 8 February 2011 : Sir Howard Stringer 26 July 2012 : excluding the Chairman were considered independent NonExecutive James Powell 26 July 2012 : Roger Taylor 11 November 2015 : Directors during the period being: John Gildersleeve Deputy Chairman : CathKeers 1 August 2016 and Nigel Langstaff 15 November 2017.
Ian West Senior Independent NonExecutive Director : John Allwood: All Directors in any event stand for reelection every year.
For where Cath Keers: Sir Howard Stringer: Nigel Langstaff: and James Powell.
tenure is greater than six years, independence is reviewed Roger Taylor, also a NonExecutive Director, is not considered to accordingly.
The terms ofappointment for NonExecutive Directors beindependent as he was previously Chief Financial Officer of are available for inspection during normal business hours.
TheCarphone Warehouse Group plc from which the Company wasdemerged in March 2010, was previously Deputy Chairman of Leadership the Company from January 2010 to July 2012 and has other How the Board operates significant business interests with the Chairman.
The Board has reserved certain matters requiring Board approval, and delegated others to a Committee of the Board for approval.
During the period the following Board changes occurred: as noted Matters that were reserved for the Board include approving the inlast years Annual Report the Company announced Dido Harding Groups strategy, annual budgets and other longer term planning.
stepped down on 10 May 2017, following which the Company announced on 10 July 2017 a change of Chief Financial Officer which took During the period, day to day management of the Company rested effectwhen Iain Torrens stepped down on 30September 2017 and withthe Groups Executive Committee, which was led by the Chief Kate Ferry was appointed as his replacement on 9 October 2017.
Executive Officer and was part of the operational management of the Additionally on 15 November 2017, Nigel Langstaff was appointed Group.
As explained above, the PLC Committee that was formed during asa NonExecutive Director.
During the period, the function of the the period to support transition ended once transition was completed.
PLC Committee that was formed in order to oversee the transition NonExecutives did not form part of the executive management to the new management structure has now been assumed by the teams and their responsibilities include: constructive challenge and Executive Committee, which is attended by all of the Executive help indeveloping proposals on strategy: scrutiny of managements Directors including the Chairman.
performance in meeting agreed goals and objectives: satisfying As explained in the Companys prospectus in 2010, Sir Charles Dunstone themselves on the integrity of financial information: and ensuring that was not considered to be independent on his initial appointment as controls and risk management systems are robust and defensible.
Chairman primarily because of the size of his shareholding in the 34 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Board Committees The Board has established the four principal Committees below, to which it has delegated certain matters: the first three are as required by the Code, and the fourth is to ensure the compliance of the Group within the consumer and business regulatory environment in which it operates.
In the period, the current members of each Committee are described below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance John Allwood Chair John Gildersleeve Chair John Gildersleeve Chair John Gildersleeve Chair Ian West Ian West Ian West Tristia Harrison 1 James Powell Roger Taylor John Allwood Charles Bligh 2 Cath Keers John Allwood Sir Howard Stringer Tim Morris 3 Nigel Langstaff 1 James Powell stepped down 24 May 2018.
2 John Allwood was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 16 May 2017.
3 Nigel Langstaff was appointed on 15 November 2017.
The work of each Committee is described in more detail in the During the period the Committee has overseen the appointment section relating to it below: ofKate Ferry as Chief Financial Officer and Nigel Langstaff as NonExecutive Director.
Audit Committee The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each A detailed description of the Committees remit and work during the period is contained in the Audit Committee Report on pages 39 to 41.
Other Directors and senior management, including the Chief Financial The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request Officer, the Company Secretary and advisers, attend by invitation from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups ofthe Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each Other senior executives of the Group attend by invitation Committee meeting.
The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request Diversity from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups When taking into account appointments, the Committee and the Board website www.
overall understand the importance of having a diverse membership Remuneration Committee and recognise that diversity encompasses diversity of skills and A detailed description of the Committees remit and work during experience, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, cultural theperiod is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report background and belief.
Other Directors, including the Chief Executive The diversity policy applies equally to all appointments in the Officer, the Company Secretary, the Chief People Officer and Company, and the Board continues to believe that appointments advisers, attend by invitation of the Committee.
should be made on merit, the key criterion being whether or not theappointee can add to or complement the existing range of skills The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each Committee meeting.
and experience on the Board.
Enhancing diversity at all levels is important and we continue to review it annually in accordance The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request withrelevant guidance.
from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups website www.
Compliance Committee The purpose of the Committee is to provide the Board with visibility Nomination Committee of how the Group remains compliant with those consumer regulations The Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board level, affecting its businesses from time to time.
Its members therefore overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors, regularly include those senior executives who are operationally responsible reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and for implementing permanent changes necessary to ensure the making its recommendations to the Board.
It assists in evaluating Group remains compliant.
Such members are accountable to the thecommitments of individual Directors and the balance of skills, Committee and the Board for the successful delivery of such changes.
knowledge and experience on the Board.
This Committee meets at least four times a year and reports to the The Committee carries out a formal selection process of candidates, Board accordingly.
The Group also operates a weekly Compliance which includes nominees put forward by any member ofthe Board, Committee made up of those senior executives responsible for all and then proposes and makes recommendations regarding appointments key areas of compliance across the Group.
At these meetings to the Board, whether of Executive or NonExecutive Directors.
relevant compliance is monitored against a weekly scorecard.
TheCommittee does from time to time use search consultants in accordance with the procedure agreed by the Board: however, during the period, the Committee has not had to use any search consultants.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 35 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Leadership continued Number of regular formal Board meetings attended during the year Director Role Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 6 4 5 2 Sir Charles Dunstone Executive Chairman 6 6 1 Kate Ferry Chief Financial Officer 3 3 2 Iain Torrens Chief Financial Officer 2 3 Tristia Harrison Chief Executive Officer 6 6 Charles Bligh Chief Operating Officer 6 6 3 John Gildersleeve Non-Executive Director 5 6 3 5 1 2 Ian West Senior Independent Director 6 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 4 John Allwood Non-Executive Director 6 6 4 4 4 4 2 2 Sir Howard Stringer Non-Executive Director 6 6 2 2 5 James Powell Non-Executive Director 6 6 1 4 Roger Taylor Non-Executive Director 6 6 5 5 Cath Keers Non-Executive Director 6 6 4 4 6 Nigel Langstaff Non-Executive Director 2 2 1 1 1 Kate Ferry was appointed on 9 October 2017.
2 Iain Torrens stepped down on 30 September 2017.
3 John Gildersleeve was absent from meetings on medical grounds.
4 John Allwood appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 16 May 2017.
5 J ames Powell was absent from three Audit Committee meetings due to preexisting commitments and unfortunately, the Audit Committee meetings could not be rescheduled due to other Board members' commitments.
6 Nigel Langstaff was appointed on 15 November 2017.
As well as the formal meetings during the period, the Board met at The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer are responsible for chairing the Executive Committee weekly and monthly meetings.
other times as appropriate for specific matters, including approving certain announcements to shareholders.
Key responsibilities of the Executive Committee during the period were to: It is important to the Board that NonExecutive Directors have theability to influence and challenge appropriately.
To this end rigorously assess the Groups trading performance: allNonExecutive Directors are given a thorough induction to the identify and develop to a successful conclusion those largescale Group and take part in Board discussions.
All Directors receive crossGroup projects that are critical to delivering the Groups papers in advance of meetings.
They also receive regular reports strategy and maximising shareholder value: and and members of the Groups Executive team are invited to present at Board meetings and at the annual strategy meeting so that the provide a crossfunctional forum for the discussion of opportunities NonExecutive Directors keep abreast of developments in the Group.
and risks arising from business activities, as well as to communicate business performance.
During the period, the Chairman met regularly with the NonExecutive Directors, usually prior to every other Board meeting.
Notwithstanding Effectiveness performance evaluation that Sir Charles Dunstone is Executive Chairman and alongside  IanWests important role of Senior Independent NonExecutive Under provision B.
6.2 of the Code the next external Board performance Director, these meetings ensure that any concerns continue to be evaluation will take place in 2020: however, during the period each raised and discussed outside of formal Board meetings.
Board member has been subject to an internal Board performance During the period the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director evaluation, where the balance of skills, knowledge and experience took responsibility for the performance evaluation of the Board: ofeach Director was reviewed.
Next year the Board will undertake succession planning for the Chairman: and chairing NonExecutive afurther internal review.
In addition, he was an alternative point A report was compiled by the Company Secretary: these results ofcontact for shareholders in the event that normal executive andthecomments of the evaluator were analysed by the Chairman, channels were not appropriate.
Details of the Senior Independent theSenior Independent NonExecutive Director and the Board as NonExecutive Directors role are set out on the Groups website awhole against the broad criteria of overall Board effectiveness and www.
As a result of this performance evaluation the Chairman confirms that each of the Directors seeking reelection Accountability operational management of the Group at the AGM continues to be effective and has demonstrated the During the period there was a clear division of responsibility between appropriate commitment to the role.
the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer, with the management of the Groups business activities being delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer who have ultimate responsibility for establishing objectives and monitoring executive actions and performance through the Executive Committee.
36 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 The results of the internal Board evaluation during the period were The systems of internal control are designed to manage, rather than as follows: the Board was operating effectively, the evaluation of the eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can NonExecutives by the Executives found their contribution towards only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material strategy and risk management highly valued and the Chairmans errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law and regulations.
The effectiveness performance in his Executive capacity was assessed positively of these systems is periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee in andperforming well.
accordance with the revised guidance in the Turnbull Report, including ensuring the external audit goes out to tender every ten years in line The Senior Independent NonExecutive Director also met with the other with the EU regulations and directive on audit.
These systems are NonExecutive Directors during March 2018 to assess the Chairmans also refined as necessary to meet changes in the Groups business effectiveness during the year, taking into account the views of Executive and associated risks.
Directors and the results of the internal Board performance evaluation.
The Audit Committee also adopts an internal audit charter each The Company Secretary ensured that the Board is made aware year in accordance with International Internal Auditing Standards.
ofnew laws, regulations and other information appropriate to the Group to ensure that all Directors continually update their skills, The systems of internal control were in place throughout the period knowledge and familiarity of the Group in order to fulfil their roles.
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Board has Additionally, each Director has access to the advice and services of conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of the Company Secretary and also has the ability to take independent risk management and internal control in operation during the year external advice if required.
and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
This was approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
Remuneration Further to the changes described above, the Board continues to The Board, primarily through its Remuneration Committee, sets ensure that the Groups culture and ways of working further embed clear guidelines and objectives in respect of Executive pay, which information security risk management across the business.
are described below in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Relations with stakeholders Risk management and internal control The Board continues to believe that it is important to explain business The Board views management of risk as integral to good business developments and financial results to the Companys stakeholders practice.
The Company has established an ongoing risk management and to understand any concerns.
The principal communication programme to identify, assess and mitigate business, financial, media used to impart information to shareholders are news releases operational and compliance risks.
The programme is designed to including results announcements and Company publications.
In all support managements decision making and to improve the reliability such communications, care is taken to ensure that no inappropriate of business performance.
The risk management process operates information is released.
throughout the Group, being applied equally to the main business The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have units and corporate functions.
lead responsibility for investor relations.
They are supported by an The nature of risks identified and assessed is wide ranging, covering Investor Relations Manager who, amongst other matters, organises risks arising from the regulatory environment, strategy, counterparties presentations for analysts and institutional investors.
There is a full and organisational change associated with major projects.
Action programme of regular meetings and dialogue with major institutional plans and controls to mitigate identified risks are put in place where shareholders, fund managers, analysts, retail brokers and credit investors, possible and if considered appropriate by the Board, taking account upon which the Chairman ensures the Board receives regular updates of costs and benefits.
A report is provided to the Directors at relevant at Board meetings.
The Board also receives periodic reports on investors Board meetings setting out key risks, changes in the status of the key views of the performance of the Company.
All the NonExecutive risks and updates on mitigation.
Directors and, in particular, the Chairman and the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director are available to meet with major The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board shareholders, if such meetings are required.
delegates to executive management the responsibility for designing, The Company also plans to communicate with shareholders through operating and monitoring these systems.
The systems are based on the AGM, at which the Chairman will give an account of the progress a process of identifying, evaluating and managing key risks and include of the business over the last year, and a review of current issues, the risk management processes set out above and channels to enable which provides the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
employees to raise concerns about possible irregularities in financial The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity reporting and other issues and associated processes for those to vote on the resolutions put to shareholders.
Information relating matters to be investigated.
to votes cast will, following the AGM, be available on the Companys The systems of internal control are supported by the Internal Audit and website www.
Any significant risks identified in the year were given The Board will also communicate with employees via a NonExecutive appropriate priority.
Director responsible for 'Employee Voice' as described on page 44.
Further financial and business information is available on the Groups website www.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 37 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Viability statement The context for assessment The aim of the viability statement is for the Directors to report on the assessment of the prospects of the Group meeting its liabilities over the assessment period, taking into account the current financial position, outlook, principal risks and uncertainties, key judgements and estimates in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have based their assessment of viability on the Groups current business model and strategic plan, which is updated and approved annually by the Board, in line with our objective of providing Simple, Affordable, Reliable and Fair Connectivity for Everyone, underpinned by the four strategic objectives outlined on page 7 tothe Strategic Report.
The effective management of principal risksand uncertainties are outlined within pages 22 to 26.
The assessment period The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over three year period to March 2021, as this is an appropriate planning time horizon given the speed of change and customer demand in the industry and is in line with the Groups strategic planning period.
Assessment of viability The viability of the Group has been assessed taking into account theGroups current financial position, including external funding committed for the period of assessment, and after modelling the impact of certain scenarios arising from the principal risks which have the greatest potential impact on viability in the period under review.
In particular, the Board has considered the sustainability of the Business Model, the impact of customer trust and brand reputation on churn, the regulatory and market environment, advances in technology and the Groups ability to raise long term funding.
These risks are aligned with the Groups review of its Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 22 to 26.
The specific scenarios are hypothetical and necessarily severe for the purpose of creating outcomes that have the ability to threaten the viability of the Group.
Should any of these scenarios occur, various options are available to the Group to maintain liquidity so as to continue in operation such as: accessing new external funding, more radical short term cost reduction actions, and or reducing capital expenditure.
None of these actions have been factored into our scenario modelling.
Scenario Associated principal risks and uncertainties Description and potential impact Competition Customer trust and brand reputation Failure to respond to a decline in customer confidence and trust, increased competitor activity, impact of changing market Competitive landscape structure or regulatory compliance may potentially give rise to Changing market structure increased levels of churn or lower than forecast connections.
Regulatory compliance In addition, the Group could potentially experience increased levels of churn when customers come out of contract FLPP.
Data and cyber security The potential impact of the above would result in reduced profitability and cash generation.
Simplifying Changing market structure Failure to achieve the Groups objectives to continue to simplify thebusiness the business.
Regulatory compliance reduction in Alternatively, a negative impact on the Group's cost base derived costsavings or Resilience and business continuity from the regulatory environment or a serious data cyber security increased costs Change delivery and execution breach resulting in potential fines.
Conclusions Based on these severe but possible scenarios the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this three year period.
38 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018
