Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Corporate Governance Leadership Our governance structure The Groups primary decision-making body is the Board.
It is accountable to shareholders for the Groups financial and operational performance, and is responsible for setting the strategy and ensuring that risk is managed effectively.
The Board maintains a schedule of items which it is required to consider and approve.
We review this schedule regularly and update it to reflect developments in corporate governance and emerging practice.
As shown in the diagram below, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities to a number of Committees.
The Board retains overall accountability and the Committee Chairs are responsible for reporting back to the Board on the Committees activities.
Minutes of the Committees meetings are made available to all Directors on the web-based Board portal.
The Board Chaired by Dr Gerry Murphy Accountable to shareholders for the Groups Monitors the operational and financial Sets the Groups ethics, culture and agrees financial and operational performance performance of the Group the Groups Values Sets the Groups strategy Sets the Groups risk appetite Ensures good corporate governance practices are in place.
Oversees managements implementation of Ensures that appropriate risk management the strategy systems and internal controls are in place Chief Audit Nominations Remuneration Executive Committee Committee Committee Chaired by Douglas Hurt Chaired by Dr Gerry Murphy Chaired by Anne Minto Oversees financial reporting, internal Makes recommendations to the Recommends the Groups financial controls and risk Board regarding the structure, size, Remuneration Policy for executive management systems, the risk composition and succession needs of directors.
Sets and monitors the management process, the internal the Board and its Committees level and structure of remuneration audit function and the Groups for the executive directors and other Reviews the performance of the relationship with the external senior executives executive directors.
succession planning for Directors Sets the Chairmans fee.
More on page 66 More on page 70 More on page 72 Executive Committee Research Advisory Group Nick Hampton appointed Chief Executive on 1 April 2018 Chaired by Dr Ajai Puri Comprises external experts and Provides insights into how Chaired by Javed Ahmed up until 1 April 2018 senior Tate & Lyle managers leading-edge science and Recommends strategic and Monitors the performance of the technology could enhance Reviews the innovation pipeline operating plans to the Board two business divisions and the portfolio of the Groups global support functions Assists the Chief Executive in Food & Beverage Solutions implementing the strategy Identifies, evaluates, manages business division.
agreed by the Board and monitors risks facing the Group.
The Executive Committee is supported by a number of operational committees, including the Environment, Health and Safety EHS Advisory Board, Operations Committee, Capital Expenditure Committee, Cyber Security Committee, Business Continuity Committee, IS IT Portfolio Review Committee and the Group Intellectual Property Committee.
Committees may also be established for a finite period to oversee key strategic or operational priorities.
com 57 Corporate Governance continued Key responsibilities of the Board At the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprises the Chairman, one executive director and six non-executive directors.
Their responsibilities are summarised below.
There is a clear division of responsibilities: the Chairman leads the Board and the Chief Executive leads the business.
Chairman Non-executive directors Responsible for the effective operation, Responsible for overseeing the delivery of the leadership and governance of the Board strategy within the risk appetite set by the Board Chairs Board meetings, Nominations Committee meetings Advise and constructively challenge the executive directors.
and the Annual General Meeting Sets the Board agenda with the Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Responsible for ensuring that the Chairmans Facilitates active engagement by all Directors performance is evaluated Sets the style and tone of Board discussions Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and supports him Ensures the Directors receive accurate, timely and in the delivery of his objectives clear information.
Serves as an intermediary with the Chairman for other Directors if necessary Chief Executive Maintains a comprehensive understanding of the major issues Responsible for proposing strategy to the Board of shareholders and is available if shareholders have any and delivering it concerns that they have been unable to resolve through the normal channels.
Runs the business Communicates within the organisation the Boards expectations with regard to culture, Values and behaviours Company Secretary Ensures the Board is aware of current business issues.
Responsible for maintaining the governance and listing rules compliance framework 1 Chief Financial Officer Supports the Chairman, Chief Executive and Committee Chairs Responsible for the Groups financial affairs in setting agenda items for Board and Committee meetings Advises the Board on developments in corporate governance, Contributes to the management of the Groups business legislation and regulation Supports the Chief Executive with the development and Assists the Chairman and the Chief Executive in ensuring implementation of the strategy.
that the Directors are provided with relevant information in a timely manner Organises inductions for new Directors and ongoing training for all directors.
1 Upon the appointment of Nick Hampton as Chief Executive effective 1 April 2018, the position of Chief Financial Officer has been vacant.
Imran Nawaz will take up the role of Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 August 2018.
The responsibilities of the Chief Financial Officer during this interregnum have mainly remained with Nick Hampton with some delegated to the Group VP, Finance and Control.
Compliance with the Code The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016 is the standard against which we are required to measure ourselves for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Throughout the year, the Company has applied the principles and fully complied with the Code.
The Code can be found at www.
58 58 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Board activity during the year ended 31 March 2018 The Board holds six scheduled meetings each year at Group locations and an off-site meeting to discuss strategy.
In the few instances where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, he or she generally provides comments in advance to the Chairman.
This years scheduled meetings were held in London at the Groups headquarters, at our plant in Koog, the Netherlands and at our Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
Strategy Financial Undertook deep dives into each of our Approved the payment of the interim dividend and recommended payment Primary Products and Food & Beverage of the final dividend Solutions divisions, considered the key Considered and agreed treasury and tax matters growth drivers, markets and customers Approved the tax strategy in each Approved the Annual Operating Plan for the year ending 31 March 2019 Reviewed the priorities identified for ICD Approved the Annual Report 2017, the halfand full-year results and in the 2019 financial year associated announcements Considered a presentation on how Regular review of financial performance and forecasts.
consumer behaviour is changing and impacting the purchasing decisions of Tate & Lyles customers Reviewed the Groups strategic plan.
Operational commercial Internal control and risk management Reviewed the conclusions of the external review of safety Considered and agreed the Groups risk appetite and across the Group principal risks Reviewed the content of, and implementation road map Assessed the effectiveness of our internal controls and for, the Groups new EHS strategy and received and risk management systems considered regular progress updates Agreed the Modern Slavery Act statement available on Approved capital expenditure projects the Companys website Reviewed the development of the innovation pipeline Agreed the Viability statement as disclosed in the Annual and considered the technical competencies required for Report 2017 our ICD unit.
Approved the adoption of a going concern basis of accounting in preparing the halfand full-year results.
Governance and stakeholders Leadership and employees Considered the output and recommendations from the Board Approved the appointment of Nick Hampton as effectiveness review Chief Executive and Imran Nawaz as Chief Financial Officer Considered and approved the disbandment of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the reallocation of its remit to the Endorsed the Chief Executives appointment of Board and the Audit Committee Melissa Law and Andrew Taylor to the Group Executive Committee Discussed feedback from institutional shareholders and analysts Held Chairman-led Town Halls at our global Considered the implications of the FRCs draft revised Corporate Shared Services Centre in Poland and at our Governance Code and responded to the FRCs consultation plant in Koog, the Netherlands Reviewed and approved Directors conflicts of interest if any.
Reviewed diversity, talent management and bench strength within the organisation.
com 59 Corporate Governance continued Directors attendance at Board and Committee Meetings during the year Number of meetings attended Corporate Audit Nominations Responsibility Remuneration Directors as at 31 March 2018 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 1 Dr Gerry Murphy 7 7 5 5 3 3 3 3 7 7 2 Javed Ahmed 7 7 n a 0 0 n a n a Nick Hampton 7 7 n a n a n a n a 3 Liz Airey 1 2 2 2 0 1 n a n a Paul Forman 7 7 5 5 3 3 n a 7 7 4 Lars Frederiksen 6 7 n a 2 3 3 3 6 7 Douglas Hurt 7 7 5 5 3 3 3 3 n a 5 Jeanne Johns 3 4 n a 1 1 2 2 2 3 Anne Minto 7 7 5 5 3 3 n a 7 7 Dr Ajai Puri 7 7 n a 3 3 3 3 5 7 Sybella Stanley 7 7 5 5 3 3 n a n a 1 Although not a Committee member, attended the Committee meetings by invitation.
2 Resigned as a Director with effect from 1 April 2018.
3 Resigned as a Director with effect from 27 July 2017 and unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing commitment.
4 Unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing commitment.
5 Resigned as a Director with effect from 31 October 2017.
Re-election of Directors Effectiveness The Code provides that all Directors should seek re-election on an annual basis and all Directors will seek re-election at the The Board regularly reviews the balance of experience, skills, forthcoming AGM.
The Directors standing for re-election, with gender and diversity of thinking styles around the boardroom table the exception of Nick Hampton, do not have service contracts.
to ensure that the composition of the Board and its Committees is Each Director goes through a formal performance review process appropriate for the Group as it continues to evolve and implement as part of the annual Board effectiveness review.
The Board and its Committees carry out a formal completed this process during the year and, in line with the Code, effectiveness review process once a year which provides new Douglas Hurt and Dr Ajai Puri, who have both served for over insights into the operation of the Board and areas for development six years, have been subject to a particularly rigorous review.
Independence Board composition The Code provides that the Board should state its reasons if it At the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprised eight determines that a Director is independent notwithstanding the Directors with deep knowledge and experience in diverse business existence of relationships or circumstances which may appear sectors within global markets: the Chairman, who has no executive relevant to its determination, including if the Director has served responsibilities: one executive director: and six non-executive on the Board for more than nine years from the date of his or her directors.
The names, skills and experience of the Directors are set first election.
With the exception of Dr Gerry Murphy, who, as Chairman, is Appointment to the Board presumed under the Code not to be independent, the Board The Nominations Committee has responsibility for the appointment considers all the non-executive directors to be independent.
of non-executive and executive directors and recommends new Directors interests appointments to the Board.
During the year, the Nominations Committee carried out succession planning in respect of the roles During the year, no Directors had a material interest in any of Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board approved contract with the Group, being a contract of significance in relation the Nominations Committees recommendation that Nick Hampton to the Groups business.
A statement of Directors interests in be appointed Chief Executive with effect from 1 April 2018 and that Company shares is set out on page 89.
Imran Nawaz be appointed as Chief Financial Officer with effect Directors induction programme from 1 August 2018.
Further details about these appointment processes are set out in the Nominations Committee report on In those years in which new Directors join the Board, the pages 70 and 71.
Company Secretary works with each Director to tailor an induction programme which covers strategy, operations including safety and environmental performance, risk management and internal control.
60 60 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 2018 Board effectiveness review The Boards review of its effectiveness was facilitated by Independent Audit Limited, using their online assessment service Thinking Board.
Their facilitation helped ensure that our review was rigorous and covered the important influences on the Boards effectiveness.
As independent advisors, they discussed with us the focus and coverage of our Board and Committee questionnaires, administered the questionnaires on a confidential basis, analysed the results independently from the Board and management, and presented the findings and their suggestions in a paper which was discussed with the Chairman and provided to all Directors.
Independent Audit also met with the Board to share its views on the issues raised through our self-assessment.
The main recommendations identified by the review and the actions agreed by the Board include: Issue recommendation Action This will be a focus for the Nominations Committee in the 2019 financial year.
Review Board and Committee composition Following Board meetings, short sessions for non-executive directors-only have been Introduce non-executive introduced.
Non-executive directors also held two non-executive-only dinners during directors-only sessions the year.
As we transition to our new Chief Executive and to a more purpose-led organisation, Review the culture of the the Board has scheduled a review of the corporate culture in the 2019 financial year.
organisation This item will be considered by the Remuneration Committee in the 2019 financial year.
Review the Groups approach to reward in order to ensure it continues to align with the Groups strategy We propose to continue the individual non-executive director site visit programme Continue Board overseas visits whereby each non-executive director visits one Group site each year, as non-executive directors find this to be a valuable and informative experience.
The Board will continue to host one meeting a year at the Groups main US site, the global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, with visits to other locations in alternate years.
During the year, we engaged a third-party provider to assist in creating a corporate Review Board information dashboard, which provides the Board with an at a glance summary of the Groups financial and non-financial performance.
In addition, we reviewed and revised the content and presentation of Board materials, in particular to align management and Board information.
We have found that these improvements in our Board materials facilitate a better Board discussion.
Review of the Committees Professional development and independent site In addition to the Board effectiveness review, the chairs of the Audit visit programme and Remuneration Committees led the review of their Committees Directors receive ongoing training and updates on relevant issues effectiveness with Independent Audit as facilitator.
These reviews as appropriate, taking into account their individual qualifications confirmed that all Committees continue to provide effective and experience.
The Company Secretary helps Directors undertake support to the Board.
Areas for further focus are noted in the any other professional development they consider necessary to individual Committee reports.
assist them in carrying out their duties.
Review of individual Directors During the year, in addition to the Boards visit to the Commercial Dr Gerry Murphy led performance reviews of the non-executive and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA, and to our plant in directors, while the Nominations Committee reviewed the Koog, the Netherlands, the Chairman and or various of the nonperformance of the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the executive directors visited six of the Groups sites in Europe, three other members of the Executive Committee, in line with its terms of the Groups sites in the US, three of the Groups sites in Asia of reference.
These reviews confirmed that each Director and two of the Groups sites in Latin America as part of their continues to make an effective contribution to the Boards work independent site visit programme.
These visits provide Directors and is well-prepared and informed about issues they needed to with the opportunity to interact with local management and to gain consider.
In each case, their commitment remains strong.
in-depth knowledge about the opportunities and challenges for the Groups operations across the world.
com 61 Corporate Governance continued Advice and support Accountability All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that the The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of Board follows due process, and that the Company complies with the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving the Groups applicable rules and regulations.
strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management There is also a formal procedure whereby Directors can and internal control systems.
obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Risk management and internal control A formal process is in place which aims to identify and evaluate Directors conflicts of interest risks and how they are managed, further details of which are set Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they out on pages 38 and 39. may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless The objective of the internal control system is to protect the that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
As permitted under Groups assets and reputation and to ensure the reliability of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association financial information for both internal use and external publication.
allow Directors to authorise conflicts of interest and the Board has The systems of internal control and risk management cannot an established policy and set of procedures for managing and, eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can where appropriate, authorising, actual or potential conflicts only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material of interest.
The key elements of those procedures are as follows: An overview of the Groups internal control system is set out on Directors are required to disclose proposed new appointments page 63 with details of those people or functions responsible for to the Chairman before taking them on, to ensure that any managing or monitoring risks set out on page 64. potential conflicts of interest can be identified and addressed appropriately, for instance through the agreement and 2018 review of the effectiveness of the system of implementation of guidelines and protective measures regarding internal control the ongoing management of any situational conflict The Board monitors the effectiveness of the Groups systems of Directors are required to declare other situations which could internal control and risk management throughout the year.
Once a result in a potential conflict of interest year, the Board, supported by the Audit Committee, conducts its Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to proposed own review of the effectiveness of the systems of risk management Directors are considered by the Board prior to their appointment and internal control.
As last year, the 2018 review was facilitated by The Board reviews Directors actual or potential conflicts of Group Audit and Assurance and covered the period from the start interest at least annually.
of the financial year to the date of this Annual Report.
The process included a two-stage review to facilitate discussion, with the Audit During the year, the Board assessed and approved potential Committee discussing the results of the review at their meetings in conflicts, together with guidelines and protective measures March and May 2018.
The Board then discussed the output at its as appropriate.
Directors indemnities and insurance cover The 2018 review covered financial, operational and compliance As at the date of this Annual Report, the Company has agreed to controls, Values and behaviours, and the risk management indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by the Companies process, and included questionnaires and representation letters Act 2006, against claims from third parties in respect of certain completed by management.
Group Audit and Assurance monitored liabilities arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their and selectively checked the results of the review, ensuring that the powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company responses from management were consistent with the results of and any of its subsidiaries.
The Directors are also indemnified its work during the year.
As part of this process, areas for against the cost of defending a criminal prosecution or a claim by enhancements to internal controls, and associated action plans the Company, its subsidiaries or a regulator, provided that where to deliver them, were identified.
Delivery of these enhancements the defence is unsuccessful the Director must repay those defence is being monitored by the Audit Committee or the Board costs.
These indemnities are qualifying indemnity provisions for the as appropriate.
purposes of Sections 232 to 234 of the Companies Act 2006, and The Board considers that none of the areas identified for copies are available for inspection at our registered office during improvement constituted a significant failing or weakness.
business hours on any weekday except UK public holidays.
Equivalent indemnities remain in force for Liz Airey, Jeanne Johns and Javed Ahmed who ceased to be Directors on 27 July 2017, 31 October 2017 and 1 April 2018 respectively.
The Company also maintains Directors and officers liability insurance cover, and reviews the level of cover each year.
62 62 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial reporting internal control system Key features of This system covers the financial reporting process and the Groups the internal process for preparing consolidated accounts.
It includes policies and procedures which require: control system The maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, The system has four broad areas accurately and fairly reflect transactions including the acquisition and disposal of assets Reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in Risk assessment accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Risk assessments are undertaken as part of Reasonable assurance regarding the prevention or timely business as usual as well as through a more detection of unauthorised use of the Groups assets.
formalised Enterprise Risk Management process.
We also have specific disclosure controls and procedures around the approval of the Groups financial statements.
Twice a year, representatives from the business units certify that they have complied with the minimum control standards and that their Tone from the top and business reported information provides a true and fair view of the state of environment controls the financial affairs of their division and its results for the period.
The results of this financial disclosure process are reported to the The Values framework see page 42 Audit Committee.
The Group policies framework Business performance management processes, Speak Up whistleblowing covering planning, budgeting and performance Speak Up, the Groups whistleblowing programme, has been in Schedule of matters reserved to the Board and place for a number of years in all operations controlled by the terms of reference for Board Committees Group.
This programme, which is monitored by the Audit A clear organisational structure with responsibility, Committee, is designed to enable employees, contractors, accountability and limits of authority clearly defined customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to raise concerns for employees confidentially about conduct they consider contrary to the Groups Segregation of duties of employees.
It may include, for example, unsafe or unethical practices, or criminal offences.
The Speak Up programme provides a number of ways to raise concerns including a telephone reporting line, email, and a webInformation and communication based reporting facility.
These multilingual communication channels are operated by independent service providers who controls submit reports to the Speak Up Committee for investigation Board and Executive Committee reporting as necessary.
framework Communication protocols for external Reports received during the year were kept strictly confidential and communications the concerns identified were referred to appropriate managers within the Group for resolution.
Where appropriate, action was Whistleblowing process.
taken to address the issues raised.
The reports were analysed and monitored to ensure the process continued to be effective.
The Audit Committee received analysis of all reports submitted via the Speak Up programme during the year.
Monitoring controls Controls monitoring by dedicated teams covering, for instance, finance, safety, product quality, intellectual property and cyber security Framework of reviews by appropriately qualified people.
com 63 Corporate Governance continued Internal control system Body Responsibilities Determines the level of risk that it is prepared to accept in the business risk appetite The Board Agrees the Groups principal risks for disclosure in the Annual Report Oversees the strategies for managing principal risks.
Review aspects of the risk management and internal control systems for risks within its remit and Audit and Corporate report to the Board Responsibility Discuss regular reports from the VP, Group Audit and Assurance internal audit Committees Carry out a formal review of the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and report to the Board on the output of that review at least once a year Audit Committee.
Works within the risk appetite and develops the mechanisms and processes to direct the Executive management organisation through setting the tone and expectations from the top, delegating authority and monitoring compliance.
Manages risk and ensures that mitigation is operated across the business which is appropriate and in Line management accordance with the accountability framework Has primary responsibility for compliance with Group policies, our Values and legal requirements Within certain functions, notably safety and product quality, separate assurance teams oversee the effective operation of controls.
Manage risks within their predefined accountabilities Employees Are trained on, for example, safety, cyber security, competition law and anti-bribery and corruption to increase their awareness of risks training may be tailored and or mandatory.
Works with executive and line management to help identify, measure, mitigate, monitor and report Group risk manager principal risks.
Review certain risks and controls and monitor initiatives to strengthen controls Risk management Comprise senior management and functional specialists committees Examples include the Cyber Security Steering Committee which considers cyber security risks, and the regional Control Environment Councils which consider regional financial risks and controls.
Provides objective assessment of the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal Global Audit control systems to the Audit Committee to the Corporate Responsibility Committee when in place and Assurance and to the Board internal audit Has the authority to review any relevant aspect of the business and a duty to report on any material weaknesses Develops and works to a risk-based internal audit plan which is approved by the Audit Committee and which is regularly updated.
Commissioned by the Board from time to time to supplement internal processes as appropriate.
External specialists The Corporate Responsibility Committee was dissolved during the year.
For more information see page 56.
64 64 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Annual General Meeting Engagement with shareholders The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to question the Board on matters put to the meeting, including this and others Annual Report.
Shareholders who attended last years AGM received a presentation from the Chief Executive on the Groups We are committed to maintaining an open dialogue with activities and performance.
shareholders, debt investors and potential investors and recognise the importance of that relationship in the governance process.
The 2018 AGM will be held at Glaziers Hall in London on Thursday 26 July 2018 at 10.00 am.
Full details are set out in the Notice of We have a focused investor relations programme that aims to help AGM.
Resolutions are decided by means of a poll and the votes existing and potential investors understand the Group.
We provide received in respect of each resolution, together with the number feedback from the investment community to all Directors regularly of abstentions, are announced through a regulatory information to ensure they understand the views expressed by major investors.
service and published on the Companys website.
Shareholders can choose to receive shareholder documentation, including the Institutional investors Annual Report, electronically or in paper format, and may submit The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and VP, Investor proxy votes and any questions either electronically or by post.
and Media Relations maintain a programme of meetings with institutional shareholders from the UK, Europe, North America and Asia.
Investor calendar During the year, Dr Gerry Murphy held meetings with a number Set out below is a summary of our major investor activity of the Companys larger institutional shareholders.
In addition, during the year.
following the announcement of the appointment of Nick Hampton as Chief Executive in January 2018, a number of larger institutional April 2017 May 2017 shareholders were offered meetings with Dr Gerry Murphy, Remuneration Full-year results issued although no investors required meetings.
Anne Minto, Chair of the Committee Chairman Investor roadshow Remuneration Committee, offered meetings to the Companys consultation programme.
principal investors in relation to the Remuneration Policy renewal see page 73 for more information.
All Directors received periodic updates on investor communication activities.
June 2017 July 2017 Investor roadshow Trading statement issued Analysts meetings in the UK Annual General Meeting As well as the full-year and half-year results presentations to and US in UK.
investors and analysts, we host conference calls after each trading Investor conference in update.
We publish any presentations, together with the associated France announcements, on the Companys website and we also make any audio recordings available for a short period after each event.
Chief Financial Officer and VP, Investor and Media Relations also meet regularly with analysts.
September 2017 November 2017 Investor conference Half-year results issued Independent feedback on our investor relations in UK.
Investor roadshow programme meetings in the UK Each year, an external investor relations advisor undertakes a and US comprehensive review of investor perceptions of the Group, Investor conferences in management, strategy and communications.
The output from UK, France and US this review was presented to the Board in November 2017 and actions taken forward by management.
Recommendations Chairman meeting with included broadening discussion of the drivers of North American investors.
performance in the Food & Beverage Solutions division, and a re-focusing of the Groups investor targeting programme to December 2017 February 2018 focus on large UK active underweight investors, using North American investor Trading statement issued management selectively.
group meeting in UK Investor meetings in UK.
Other capital providers Investor conference The Chief Financial Officer, Group Treasurer and VP, Investor in UK.
and Media Relations regularly meet with our committed lending banks and bond holders and ratings agencies Standard & Poors and Moodys.
Private retail shareholders We encourage private shareholders to provide feedback to the Board via the Company Secretary.
We also include a questions card with the AGM documentation sent to shareholders so that those who cannot attend the meeting have the opportunity to ask questions.
