Nominations Committee Report This year, the Committee focused on the Chief Executive transition and the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer.
Dr Gerry Murphy, Chair of the Nominations Committee Dear shareholder This year, the Committee focused on Chief Executive succession Meetings during the year with the appointment of Nick Hampton as Chief Executive Meetings are generally held around the time of scheduled Board designate in January 2018. meetings.
The Committee held two scheduled meetings during the year and also met on one other occasion to discuss the Following Nicks appointment, the Committee turned its attention appointment of the new Chief Executive.
to the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer and, as announced on 17 April 2018, Imran Nawaz will join the Company Attendance during the year is set out on page 60. and the Board on 1 August 2018.
The Executive VP, Human Resources and the VP, Global Talent are On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Javed Ahmed, Nick invited to attend and present to the Committee on an ad hoc basis, Hampton, and my fellow non-executive directors for executing a depending on the issues being discussed.
smooth and effective succession process.
Effectiveness With our senior leadership positions now established, the Independent Audit led an externally facilitated review of the Nominations Committee and the Board will focus this year on Committees effectiveness and the output was discussed by the succession planning for the non-executive director roles in order to Committee.
This concluded that the Committee continued to ensure that the Board has the skills and experience necessary to operate effectively and confirmed that the focus for the coming support the new management team as it executes the Groups year would be on Board succession planning.
As a result of the strategy over the coming years.
effectiveness review, the Committee made a number of changes to its terms of reference.
Those changes included removing the Chief Executive as a member of the Committee, moving annual Gerry Murphy oversight of performance of Executive Committee members to Chairman the Remuneration Committee for consideration in the context of variable pay outcomes and awards and adding oversight of senior management development, particularly in the context of potential Board succession, to the Committees remit.
Committee governance Work undertaken during the year Responsibilities The Committee maintains a calendar of items for consideration at The Committee assists the Board by reviewing the size and each meeting and reviews and updates it regularly.
composition of the Board, including succession planning, and the leadership needs of the Group generally, recommending Board succession planning candidates for appointment as Directors and as Company Appointment of Nick Hampton as Chief Executive Secretary and, in this financial year, the performance of each After eight years as the Chief Executive of the Company, Javed member of the Executive Committee.
Further details of its Ahmed indicated his desire to retire from the Company, at a time to responsibilities are in the Committees terms of reference, be mutually agreed with the Committee, and to work with the on the Companys website, www.
Chairman and the Committee to effect an orderly succession Composition process.
The Committee retained Korn Ferry and Spencer Stuart to assist with the search for a new Chief Executive.
Both advisors During the financial year under review, the Committee comprised are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive and all Search Firms and have a good understanding of the Groups independent Directors.
The Company Secretary is the secretary business, having been previously engaged in the identification of to the Committee.
individuals to fill non-executive director roles and other senior executive roles.
70 70 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information The Committee identified the skills and experience necessary and Board diversity desirable for the role and the search advisors prepared lists of The Board believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a driver of potential candidates meeting the specification.
The Committee superior business performance, growth and innovation.
The Board considered the list of candidates provided in the context of its has a clear policy on diversity that acknowledges that the Boards knowledge and experience of Nick Hampton.
Each of the nonperspective and approach can be greatly enhanced through executive directors, and the Committee as a whole, met with gender, age and cultural diversity, notwithstanding the overriding Nick Hampton to understand his future strategy and plans for the principle that each member, and potential member, of the Board Group, should he succeed to the role of Chief Executive.
Having must be able to demonstrate the skills, experience and knowledge assessed his suitability for the role, and taking into account his required to contribute to the overall effectiveness of the Board.
performance as Chief Financial Officer since 2014, his significant Wherever feasible, the Committee uses search firms who are contribution to the Group in that time and the positive views held of signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search him by investors, the Board decided to appoint Nick Hampton as Firms which seeks to address gender diversity on boards and best Chief Executive, with effect from 1 April 2018. practice for the related search processes.
As set out elsewhere in this report, when considering candidate Appointment of Imran Nawaz as Chief Financial Officer directors, the Committee looked at a number of different criteria, Following the decision to appoint Nick Hampton as Chief Executive, including gender, age, culture and personal attributes such as the Nominations Committee turned its attention to the recruitment thinking style.
This was reflected in the long lists and shortlists of of a Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee appointed a possible candidates.
sub-Committee comprising the Chairman, the Chair of the Audit Committee and the Chief Executive designate.
The sub-committee As at the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, drew up a detailed job specification and appointed Korn Ferry to one executive director and six non-executive directors.
Female assist with an external search, having determined that there were representation two Directors equates to 25% of the Board.
no ready now internal candidates.
Members of the sub-committee interviewed a number of candidates and before recommending Diversity below the Board his appointment to the Nominations Committee, the Chair of the We recognise that to be a successful company, we must be both Remuneration Committee also had the opportunity to meet diverse and inclusive.
We expect everyone, everywhere, to play a with him.
role in ensuring we become a truly diverse and inclusive organisation where differences are respected and everyones Following the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, contributions are valued.
Imran Nawaz will be appointed Chief Financial Officer and a director of the Board with effect from 1 August 2018.
Our Group human resources policy records our commitment to providing opportunities for all colleagues irrespective of among other things sex, race, ethnicity, colour, religion, background, age and sexual orientation.
As described on page 43, among the measures we have in place to improve female representation in our senior management population, we now ensure that women are included on shortlists for all senior roles.
Succession planning The Committee also considered succession plans for senior executive roles.
During the year, members of the Committee participated in two new appointments to the Executive Committee: Melissa Law, President, Global Operations and Andrew Taylor, President, Innovation and Commercial Development.
Performance evaluation The Committee evaluated the performance of each member of the Executive Committee and reported its conclusions to the Remuneration Committee.
