Audit Committee Report This year, we oversaw the tender process to appoint new external auditors and an external review of the effectiveness of the Group Audit and Assurance function.
Douglas Hurt, Chair of the Audit Committee Dear shareholder As Audit Committee Chair, I am pleased to present the Committee governance Committees report for the year.
Responsibilities In addition to our usual matters, including the financial results for The Committee assists the Board by overseeing financial reporting, the full year and half year, applicable accounting policies and going internal controls, the risk management process, the internal audit concern assumptions, we continued with our practice of looking function Group Audit and Assurance and our relationship with the in depth at certain aspects of the control environment.
Further details of its responsibilities are in the included an impact assessment of new accounting standards, in Committees terms of reference, on the Companys website, particular IFRS 16, a review of the impact of recent US tax reform www.
on the Group and a review of our Group Treasury function.
Some members of the Committee also visited the Global Shared Services Composition Centre in dz, Poland.
Finance and operational leaders attended The Committee currently comprises of four independent Directors.
the Committee meetings at which these detailed reviews Liz Airey was also a member of the Committee up until her were held.
resignation from the Board on 27 July 2017.
As disclosed previously, the competitive external audit tender The Code stipulates that: process took place during the year resulting in a recommendation by i the Committee as a whole shall have competence relevant to the the Committee to the Board to appoint Ernst & Young LLP EY as sector in which the Company operates.
The Committee considered external auditors.
This recommendation was approved, and we that it does, as a whole, have extensive experience of global announced our proposal to appoint EY as external auditors to the manufacturing and supply organisations, and of business-tomarket on 3 August 2017.
A resolution to appoint EY for the financial business groups, some experience of commercialisation of year commencing 1 April 2018 will be put to shareholders at the innovation pipelines and a wealth of knowledge and understanding AGM on 26 July 2018.
Details of the tender process can be found of the London investment community and governance matters.
It on page 69. continues to strengthen the competencies of its members through On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee would like to thank ongoing development programmes and updates.
PwC for their significant contribution and support to Tate & Lyle ii at least one Committee member should have recent and relevant over the years.
We would also like to thank each firm that financial experience.
Douglas Hurt met this requirement as he was participated in the tender process.
Finance Director at IMI plc and is a Fellow of the Institute of During the year, the effectiveness of the Group Audit and Assurance Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
internal audit function was assessed by Grant Thornton.
The review The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
concluded that the function continues to operate effectively.
Further details of this assessment are set out on page 69.
Meetings during the year As explained in the Chairmans corporate governance statement Meetings are generally scheduled in line with key times in the on page 56, the Corporate Responsibility Committee was dissolved Groups financial reporting calendar.
The Committee held five during the year.
As a result, the remit of the Audit Committee will scheduled meetings during the year.
Attendance during the now include ethics and compliance, privacy law compliance, cyber year is set out on page 60. and IS IT controls.
In addition, we will maintain our programme of The Committee has also met once since the end of the financial in-depth review of the control environment.
year and prior to the signing of this Annual Report.
I look forward to meeting you at our forthcoming AGM.
The Chief Financial Officer: VP, Group Audit and Assurance: Group VP, Finance and Control: Executive VP, General Counsel: and representatives of the external auditors are normally invited to and Douglas Hurt attend each meeting.
The Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Chair of the Audit Committee are also invited to and attend Committee meetings.
In addition, senior finance and operational leaders attend and present to the Committee on an ad hoc basis, depending on the issues being discussed.
66 66 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Effectiveness Provision of non-audit services The review of the Committees effectiveness was facilitated The policy also sets out the circumstances in which the external externally by Independent Audit.
The output was discussed by the auditors may be permitted to undertake non-audit services and Committee.
This concluded that the Committee continued to the services which are not permitted under any circumstances, operate effectively and identified a number of areas to focus on such as the provision of remuneration advice and internal audit outsourcing.
next year which includes the risk management process, how the Group has implemented a three lines of defence model and The Committee reviews the policy each year and considers effectiveness of the external auditors.
quarterly reports which set out the ongoing non-audit services provided by the auditors and the fees incurred.
Under our policy Work undertaken during the year on non-audit services, which is in accordance with the Revised The Committee maintains a calendar of items for consideration at Ethical Standard 2016 published by the Financial Reporting each meeting and reviews and updates it regularly.
As well as the Council, the Chief Financial Officer has authority to approve work referred to above, the Committee focused on four main the permitted services up to 10,000 and the Chair of the areas: financial reporting: oversight of the external auditors: Committee has authority to approve up to 100,000.
In all other oversight of the internal audit function: and internal control and cases, the Committee must approve any proposed, permitted, risk management.
Financial reporting A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect of At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed and auditand non-audit related work is included in Note 9. constructively challenged the accounting judgements and The total amount paid in respect of the Group audit and audit of disclosures set out in the papers prepared by management subsidiaries was 2.3 million, and 131,000 was paid in respect of and determined, with the help of the external auditors, the non-audit services.
Fees paid in respect of non-audit services appropriateness of these.
The significant issues considered by therefore comprised 6% of the total fees paid to PwC.
the Committee in relation to this years financial statements are listed on page 68.
Effectiveness of the external auditors Following the conclusion of the audit for the year ended 31 March The Committee also considered managements review of reported 2017, the Committee conducted an internal review of the and adjusted earnings, reviewed and challenged the impairment effectiveness of the external auditors.
As part of the process, the assessments performed during the year, and satisfied itself that Committee reviewed the auditors performance against criteria set significant one-off items of income and expense had been correctly at the start of the audit, together with feedback from management classified and appropriately disclosed.
Papers on the Groups at Group and divisional levels.
It also considered: existing and emerging litigation risks were also considered.
The most recent report by the Financial Reporting Council External auditors FRC in May 2017 on the audit quality inspection of PwC PwC or its predecessor firms have been the Groups auditors The FRCs guidance on evaluating audit quality which since 1989 formally appointed at the Companys annual general suggested reviewing the external auditors competence in the meeting on 24 January 1990.
As disclosed previously, the financial following areas: year 2018 will be the last year in which PwC will perform the making appropriate judgements about materiality Groups audit.
identifying and focusing on the areas of greatest risk In accordance with the Competition and Markets Authority designing and carrying out effective audit procedures Order and the Committees terms of reference, the Committee understanding and interpreting the evidence they obtain agreed the scope and the Chairman, on behalf of the Committee, making reliable evaluations of that evidence negotiated and agreed the fee and scope of the statutory audit for reporting clearly and honestly.
The Committee concluded that the external audit process Safeguarding the auditors independence was operating effectively and that PwC continued to provide The Committee operates a policy to safeguard the objectivity and effective and independent challenge to management.
The review independence of the external auditors.
This policy sets out certain identified a number of recommendations where we could improve disclosure requirements by the external auditors to the processes including: Committee: restrictions on the employment of the external auditors former employees: and partner rotation.
Planning and communication for the US component of the audit Clearer transparency and better communication regarding the During the year, the Committee reviewed the processes that the financial impact of any changes of scope external auditors have in place to safeguard their independence, Smooth transition to the new auditor.
and received a letter from the external auditors confirming that, in their opinion, they remained independent.
These were implemented and incorporated into the criteria set for the audit for the current year.
The Committee discussed progress against these criteria regularly.
com 67 Audit Committee Report continued Significant accounting matters considered by the Committee Area Background Committees activities and conclusion We use commodity contracts to manage and The Committee received regular updates on the key commodity risks Commodity risk hedge our corn positions in the US.
and the risk management framework in place to mitigate these risks.
The valuations of the corn book and the The Committee also considered the work performed by the external co-products produced as part of the corn wet auditors before concluding that the judgements made in determining milling process, which are both underpinned the valuations of the corn and co-products positions were appropriate.
by a number of judgements, have a material This will continue to be a key area of focus for the Committee.
impact on the reported results of the Group.
Mr Hurt and Ms Stanley each visited our plant in Decatur as part of their individual site visits and held meetings with senior managers to gain a deeper understanding of the operations and management of Commodities.
Taxation We operate and pay taxes in a number The Committee reviewed the key judgements made in estimating the of jurisdictions, which requires the Groups tax charge along with the key disclosures, including a statement interpretation of complex tax law.
of tax principles, set out on page 34 and in Note 12.
The Committee was As such, we make provision for potential satisfied that the judgements made in estimating the Groups tax charge were reasonable, and that the disclosures were appropriate.
direct tax exposures with local tax authorities and reassess this as necessary at the halfThe key factors likely to affect the future tax charge including recent year and year-end.
Our assessment is US Tax reforms, as well as the key risks and uncertainties, were underpinned by a range of judgements from considered and the Committee agreed the disclosure of these factors tax professionals and external advisors.
The Committee reviewed the tax strategy statement during the year and recommended it for approval by the Board.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of tax provisions at the balance sheet date, including amounts provided in respect of Group financing structures, US tax risks and global transfer pricing risks.
The Committee concluded that the measurement and disclosure of these provisions were appropriate.
We have significant retirement benefit The Committee discussed and constructively challenged the Retirement obligations obligations in the UK and the US, including assumptions proposed and methodologies used by management and unfunded retirement medical plans in the US.
considered reports from the external auditors before agreeing that the A number of judgements have to be made assumptions were reasonable.
The Committee also considered the when calculating the fair value of the Groups appropriateness of the treatment and disclosure of the additional legacy retirement obligations.
contribution to the US pension schemes.
We test all goodwill for impairment annually, The Committee reviewed the annual goodwill impairment assessment.
Impairments and, additionally, test all assets where there The future performance of the underlying businesses, including the has been a previous impairment or where an discount rates used and forecast assumptions and sensitivities, were indicator of potential impairment is discussed and constructively challenged.
The Committee concluded considered to exist.
that the assumptions were acceptable, and the conclusion that no impairments existed alongside the appropriate disclosure of sensitivities, were appropriate.
Capitalisation of Our R&D team develops and delivers The Committee challenged the appropriateness of the Groups development innovative new products.
The innovation capitalisation policy for development costs and reviewed managements cost pipeline is managed through a disciplined conclusion on the policy which included 1 determining the appropriate process and the development costs are point to commence capitalisation which included technical, commercial capitalised at the appropriate stage in and financial criteria, 2 the governance and process to ensure that accordance with the Groups policy.
the policy was appropriately and consistently applied and 3 the methodology adopted to capture and allocate development costs.
The Committee concluded that the Group policy remained appropriate.
68 68 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information External audit tender Internal audit Group Audit and Assurance As anticipated last year, we completed a tender process to appoint Group Audit and Assurance GAA is an internal function that a new external auditor for the financial year ending 31 March 2019. services the Board and all levels of management.
It provides This coincides with the end of the current PwC audit engagement objective assurance to add value and improve the organisations partners John Waters five-year term at the conclusion of the operations.
Its responsibilities include assessing the principal risks audit for the year ended 31 March 2018. of the organisation and examining, evaluating and reporting on the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of risk management The Audit Committee led the tender process, including agreeing the and internal control as operated by management.
Management timetable, the tender shortlist, the objectives and the key selection remains responsible for identifying risks and for the design and criteria it would use in determining its recommendation to the Board.
operation of controls to manage risk.
During the year, the The key selection criteria included quality of the proposed team Committee reviewed the remit, organisation, annual plan, and firm, technical experience within the industry in which we resources and effectiveness of GAA and concluded that the operate and geographical coverage.
The audit tender process function continues to operate effectively.
was coordinated by a sub-committee comprising the Chair of the Audit Committee: the Chief Financial Officer: the VP, Group Audit The effectiveness review of the GAA function was facilitated and Assurance: Group VP, Finance and Control: and was supported by Grant Thornton during the year.
The appointment of Grant by Group Procurement.
Thornton followed a competitive tender process.
The effectiveness review comprised interviews with various stakeholders including An initial invitation to participate in the tender process was provided the Chair of the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive, the Chief to a number of auditing firms, including both Big 4 and mediumFinancial Officer, senior management and finance leaders, the sized firms.
Subsequent to this invitation, one firm outside the Big 4 external auditors and GAA team members: and involved reviewing held a series of meetings with management and delivered a documents including the GAA charter, audit plan, audit universe capability assessment against the Groups audit tender criteria.
and associated risk assessments and audit papers and reports.
However, it was determined that this firm did not possess the depth The review concluded that GAA continues to operate effectively of appropriately skilled US resources to deliver an effective audit.
with some suggestions on areas for enhancement, for example A notification of audit tender was sent out subsequently setting out audit report style and presentation.
high-level key dates and key facts, and a timeline for lead partner selection early in the process, to ensure that the right person was Internal control and risk management leading the process for each firm, considered crucial to ensure The Committee continued to receive and consider regular reports that each firm submitted their most competitive bid.
The lead from management and the VP, Group Audit and Assurance on partner for each audit firm that passed the initial assessment was the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system during subsequently selected by the Chair of the Audit Committee and the the year.
The Chief Executive was also invited to meet The reports from the latter included the findings from reviews of the preferred audit partner from each firm.
internal financial controls and actions to address any weaknesses The tender process included provision of a data room, meetings in those controls.
The Committee also reviewed the operation of with management and finance team members.
Each participant the Groups whistleblowing programme Speak Up and the was also asked to consider and present responses on a number analysis of reports submitted via the Speak Up programme, and of key accounting matters presented during the tender process.
approved the proposed plan of work presented by the new Head All the steps culminated in each of the participants making a final of Ethics and Compliance.
See page 63 for further information presentation to the Audit Committee members, based on a prior on Speak Up.
The process captured and considered the Throughout the year, the Committee focused in particular on views of other stakeholders, for example the Head of Group Tax strengthening the financial control environment and the impact of and other senior finance leaders.
this on the financial reporting processes.
The Committee reviewed At the conclusion of the process, the Audit Committee recommended controls to mitigate fraud risk and the Group assurance map, a tool to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP EY be appointed as external which sets out the assurance processes and the three lines of auditors with effect from the financial year ending on 31 March 2019. defence model.
It also considered the results of the annual review The Audit Committee believed that both EY and one other firm, of the effectiveness of internal financial reporting controls, which KPMG LLP, were capable of performing a high-quality global took into account the Group Risk Managers support to the risk audit, but had a reasoned preference for EY, based on the agreed management process, and then reported to the Board.
details about this review are on page 62.
The Board accepted the Audit Committees recommendation to appoint EY as external auditors and a resolution for the appointment of EY will be put to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
The Audit Committee confirms this recommendation is free from influence by third parties and that no restrictive contractual clause has been imposed on the Company.
PwC will cease to hold office with effect from the conclusion of the 2018 AGM, having completed the audit of the Groups financial statements for the year.
The Audit Committee considers that the Company has complied with the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the financial year under review.
