CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS LETTER Moreover, Tsira Kemularia was appointed as a member of the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee of the Board and equivalent committees of the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
The Committee will continue to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees to make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
In 2018, the Committee considered a suitable facilitator to undertake an externally facilitated evaluation of the Boards and its committees performance.
Following the Committees recommendation, the Board commissioned an  evaluation of the Boards and its committees effectiveness led by Independent Audit Ltd.
The Committee has also considered the updated UK Dear shareholders, Corporate Governance Code published by the FRC in July 2018 and made appropriate arrangements to take As announced on 15 March 2019, Eric Rajendra has a number of actions during 2019 to ensure that the stepped down due to health reasons from his roles as a Companys governance procedures are in compliance Director of the Company and Chairman of the Corporate with the updated UK Corporate Governance Code where Governance and Nomination Committee the Committee appropriate.
and equivalent positions on the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
As Senior Independent Director, I would like to thank him for his contribution to both the Committee and the Company over the past years, and present the Committee report to shareholders.
Nikoloz Enukidze Senior Independent Director The Committee key focus during 2018 was the composition 2 April 2019 and gender diversity of the Board and its committees.
The Committee has led a rigorous process to appoint successors to two independent non-executive Directors, who stepped down from the Board in 2018.
An overview of the recruitment process undertaken by the Committee is provided on pages 130 to 131.
The Committee is pleased to report that as a result of its recruitment process two female independent nonexecutive Directors, Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia, were appointed to the Board and equivalent positions on the Supervisory Board of the Companys main subsidiary JSC TBC Bank the Bank.
In support of the Groups long-term strategy, the Committee considered and implemented changes to the composition of the Board and its committees.
These changes included appointment of Maria Luisa Cicognani as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee of the Board and the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
She was also appointed as a member of the Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board and equivalent committees of the Banks Supervisory Board.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 129 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED monitoring and evaluating the process for assessing MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE the performance and effectiveness of the Board and As at 2 April 2019, the Committee is composed of two its committees including a self-assessment of this independent non-executive Directors, including Nikoloz Committee : and Enukidze and Tsira Kemularia, as well as Badri Japaridze, reviewing the structures and procedures of the Board who is not considered to be independent for the purposes and its relationship with management to ensure it can of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
stepped down due to health reasons from his role as a Chairman of the Committee on 15 March 2019, and a The main responsibilities of the Committee, in relation to replacement Chairman will be announced in due course.
nominations, are: During 2018, there have been changes in the composition evaluating the current balance of skills, experience, of the Committee with Tsira Kemularia being appointed to independence and knowledge of the Board and within the Board as an independent non-executive Director and the senior management team and, in light of this a member of the Committee, thereby replacing Stephan evaluation, preparing a description of the role and Wilcke.
As such, the Board believes that the Group capabilities required for particular appointments: complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code and that ensuring that non-executive Directors are appointed for the majority of the Committee members are free from any specified terms, subject to re-election and to statutory relationship or circumstances which may, could, would be provisions relating to the removal of a director: likely to, or appear to, affect their judgment.
considering and making recommendations to the Board on the composition of the senior management team: overseeing the induction program for new members of ATTENDANCE AT COMMITTEE MEETINGS the Board with respect to their Board responsibilities and roles, including ensuring that the non-executive Only members of the Committee have the right to attend its directors have full understanding of the Groups meetings, but the Committee may invite others, including activities: and the Chief Executive Officer, the Head of Human Resources making recommendations to the Board on succession and external advisors, to attend all or part of any meeting planning for the Board and the senior management if it thinks it is appropriate or necessary.
The Committee team, over the longer term, in order to maintain an members meet on a quarterly basis and schedule appropriate and diverse balance of skills and experience additional meetings when appropriate.
The Company and to ensure progressive training.
Secretary attends all meetings of the Committee.
The attendance of members at the Committee meetings APPOINTMENT AND RE-ELECTION during the year is set out on page 111.
OF DIRECTORS The Committee considers a skills matrix for appointments COMMITTEE ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES to the Board and the Boards committees, and identifies The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its the skills, core competencies, diversity and experience that terms of reference, available on the Groups website: www.
the Group needs to be able to deliver its strategic aims, to tbcbankgroup.
The Committees terms of reference is govern the Group appropriately and align with the Groups reviewed on an annual basis.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors will stand The Committee is responsible for the establishment and for re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting, oversight of the Groups compliance with the corporate including two newly-appointed independent non-executive governance guidelines and for making recommendations directors, Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia.
to the Board in respect of changes or additional actions as The Committee has carried out externally facilitated the Committee deems necessary.
performance evaluations and is of the view that each Director demonstrated the level of commitment required in The main responsibilities of the Committee, in relation to connection with their role on the Board and the needs of the the development and functioning of corporate governance business.
An overview of the evaluation is provided on pages within the Group, are: 112 to 113. advising the Board periodically with respect to significant developments in the law and practice of corporate governance: reviewing the independence standards for Board members: 130 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 The Committee is pleased to report that during 2018 there BOARD RECRUITMENT AND were two appointments to the Board of female Directors, APPOINTMENT PROCESS Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia.
In addition, the The composition of the Board and its committees, including Committee notes that there is a number of talented women the consideration of potential appointments of non-executive in key positions, who report directly to the CEO and other directors with requisite skills and experience to ensure the members of the management board within the Group.
As at Board continues to operate effectively, is of key importance 31 December 2018, some 12% of Groups top management for the Group.
and 37% of Groups middle management roles were performed by females.
Moreover, 67% of employees across The Committee considers a skills matrix to ensure that the the Groups entire workforce were female.
The Committee Board has a suitable range of experience and knowledge will continue to strive to further improve gender diversity to operate effectively.
The Board has formal, thorough and going forward at both the Board and management levels.
transparent procedures in place for Board recruitment and appointment.
In identifying suitable candidates, the THE COMMITTEES WORK Committee can seek recommendations from trusted advisors, but may also use external search consultancies In 2018, the Committee remained focused on succession to facilitate recruitment.
During 2018, the Committee planning, diversity matters and assessment of used services of Leathwaite, a UK based executive search effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
company, to identify suitable candidates.
Laethwaite is entirely independent of TBC and has no other connection Composition of Board and its committees with the Company.
The Committee developed a forward looking plan of expected skills and experience needed on the Board in Laethwaite prepared a scope based on the Committees the context of the Groups strategic directions.
As part of view of the skills needed on the Board, researched possible the consideration of known and expected changes to the candidates and prepared a shortlist of candidates, which Board composition, the Committee carefully re-evaluated was considered by the Committee.
the revised skills matrix for the Board.
Suitable candidates were identified and considered prior to It conducted a search for non-executive Directors based the Committee making a recommendation to appoint Maria on the revised skills matrix and taking into consideration Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia to the Board, who duly gender diversity requirement for the Board.
Accordingly, approved the appointments as independent non-executive the Committee made a recommendation to appoint Maria Directors.
Biographical details of Maria Luisa Cicognani and Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia to the Board.
Upon Tsira Kemularia are set out on pages 122 to 123.
Committees recommendation Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia were appointed to the Board and The Committee carefully assesses each candidate for its committees in order to replace two non-executive membership of the Board against its criteria for Board Directors, Stephan Wilcke and Stefano Marsaglia as appointments and ensures that appointees have enough stated on pages 130 and131.
time available to devote to the position.
The Committee then decides whether to recommend an appointment Maria Luisa Cicognani is the Chairperson of Marc Mobius to the Board and the Board decides whether to make the Investment Trust, which is an investment trust managed appointment.
by Mobius Capital Partners and was until recently Chairwoman of Moneta Money Bank in Prague.
She has DIVERSITY held leadership roles at a range of financial institutions, including Merrill Lynch, Azimut, Mediobanca and the The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
In there is a broad diversity within the Group inclusive of, but addition, Maria Luisa Cicognani has more than 12 months not limited to, gender, ethnicity and business experience, experience serving as a remuneration committee member while continuing to recommend all appointments based on of Moneta Money Bank in Prague.
merit in the context of the skills and experience required.
The Committee notes the recommendations of HamptonTsira Kemularia is currently Head of Group Pensions Alexander review to improve gender diversity on the Strategy and Standards, Group Treasury at Shell boards of directors of companies by setting a target of International Ltd and a Trustee Director of BG Group 33% female representation by 2020 with the same level of Pensions Trustees Ltd. She has held a number of senior representation at executive committee level.
Finance positions within Shell in the UK, Russia and the Caribbean.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 131 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Succession Independent Audit Ltd is entirely independent and has no The Committee recognises that people are the driving other connection with the Company.
The Committee, on force in sustaining the Groups business and good behalf of the Board, conducted the initial briefing session succession planning contributes to the delivery of the with Independent Audit Ltd and oversaw the evaluation Groups strategy, by ensuring there is the desired mix of process.
Following conclusion of the 2018 review, the skills and experience in current and future executives.
Committee considered the outcome of the report and During the course of 2018, Eric J. Rajendra, as Chairman prepared an action plan for the Board to review and agree, of the Committee, met personally with key members of the which reflected some minor improvements to processes and Management Board and middle management to ensure the information flow for the Board.
The outcome of the review and Group creates opportunities for current and future leaders.
the action plan are described on pages 112 to 113.
The Committee also considered individuals identified as The Committee will monitor implementation of the potential successors of the Groups executives, considered proposed action plan in 2019.
The Company will appoint the succession plans for the key business units as well an independent evaluator to assist in the performance as functional roles and discussed how high performing evaluation process every three years.
individuals were identified and developed.
Designated non-executive Director LOOKING FORWARD TO 2019 In advance of the Groups compliance with the requirements of the updated UK Corporate Governance published in In the coming year, the Committees workload will include July 2018, the Board appointed Tsira Kemularia upon overseeing the implementation of the improvements the Committees recommendation as the designated recommended by the performance evaluation of the independent non-executive Director, who is responsible for Board and its committees undertaken by Independent workforce engagement and facilitation of communication Audit Ltd.
The Committee will continue to monitor the between the Board and the Groups workforce.
This role Groups succession planning process to ensure that the will involve, among other things, appropriate site visits, next generation of executive management is in place.
discussions with management and staff and engagement In addition, the Committee will consider the Groups overall with other internal stakeholders.
In that respect, Tsira governance structure, including appointment of two new Kemularia produced a workforce engagement plan for members of the Supervisory Board of TBC Bank and a new 2019 and a separate communication plan to facilitate independent non-executive Director of the Company and a communication between the Board and the Groups new Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee will monitor and implement any changes Corporate governance and independence that might be needed to ensure compliance with the updated The Committee oversaw the continued developments of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in July 2018.
Groups corporate governance framework and reviews of its compliance with the Code requirements, independence of non-executive Directors and re-election of non-executive Directors as well as their suitability to continue in office.
The Committee is satisfied with Companys compliance with the Code on these matters.
The independence review was also satisfactory because all Independent NonExecutive Directors remained independent throughout 2018 year as to both character and judgment.
Board performance evaluation As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company undertook a performance evaluation of the Board and its committees in 2018 using an external facilitator, Independent Audit Ltd.
The evaluator was selected following a detailed review of the market, and the formation of a short list.
The Committee conducted detailed discussions with the Chairman prior to mandating Independent Audit Ltd with the task of the Board and Committees performance evaluation.
132 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018
