82 Audit Committee report Audit Committee procedures has been transferred to the full The Committee holds meetings with the Board from 1 January 2019 as required by the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, July 2018 update of The UK Corporate independent of the Executive, and these assist Governance Code the Code.
in ensuring that reporting, forecasting and risk management processes are subject to rigorous The terms of reference of the Audit Committee review throughout the year.
are summarised opposite and are available in full on the Companys website.
Following a review, I am pleased to confirm that throughout the year and their amendment to reflect the changed the Committee met the Financial Reporting Council responsibility for overseeing whistleblowing FRC guidance on Audit Committees which was as referred to above, it was determined that issued in April 2016, and which was incorporated they remain appropriate and reflect the into the Code.
The aim of the guidance was to Committees responsibilities under the Code further improve good governance around the and related regulations.
Committees competence: induction for new members: audit rotation: independent assessment Humphrey Singer The Committee conducts an annual evaluation of areas of judgement: and sufficiency of resourcing Chair of the Audit Committee of its performance against its key objectives.
for the Committee: all with the aim of ensuring that An interim review of progress against these it is able to perform its primary function of protecting objectives was considered at the Committees shareholders interests in relation to the Companys Dear Shareholder December 2018 meeting and the evaluation for financial reporting and internal control.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2018 was recently formally assessed by the report of the Audit Committee and to summarise Committee at its February 2019 meeting.
The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring below, and in the report which follows, the ongoing that all relevant codes and regulations are complied responsibilities and objectives of the Committee: The key performance areas of the Committee with, in order to confirm that the business is the work that has been carried out during 2018: during 2018 are set out opposite and described operating in a controlled and managed way.
and the priorities established for 2019. in more detail in this report.
I should like to thank Mike Hussey, who stood The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling The Committees key areas of focus for 2019 down from the Board on 19 July 2018, for his its corporate governance responsibilities, are set out below.
Whilst these remain work as a member of the Committee since including the Groups risk management and sufficiently flexible to permit the Committee to 2013, and to wish him well for the future.
internal control framework: internal audit quickly respond to any major change in process: financial reporting practices: the circumstances, the key priorities for the year preparation and compliance of the Companys ahead will remain the continuation of robust risk Annual Report and Accounts: and the external management and work to further reduce risk in audit process.
The Committees responsibility areas such as cyber security.
Humphrey Singer for overseeing the Companys whistleblowing Chair of the Audit Committee reporting practices including the key accounting Oversaw both the Delivery and Commercial Audit Committee judgements: and external auditprocess.
Excellence Programmes to improve efficiency The Audit Committee is chaired by Humphrey and effectiveness of the operational teams.
Singer, who succeeded Rob Rowley as its Chair Members Engaged with the senior management on 10 January 2018.
Rob Rowley continued to team to gain assurance that processes: Committee members Meetings attended be a member of the Committee until he stood a therelated documentation: and Humphrey Singer Chair 3 3 down from the Board at the conclusion of the communication with our customers support Kate Barker 3 3 Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM the Groups Customer Journey aspirations.
All members of the Committee Angela Knight 3 3 Received the Group Fraud Risk b are Independent Non Executive Directors as Mike Hussey Former Director 1 1 Assessment and continuing focus thereon.
The Board has determined c Rob Rowley Former Director 1 1 that Humphrey Singer has recent and relevant 2019 key areas of focus financial experience as required by the Code.
In a Appointed Chair on 10 January 2018 as successor addition, and in line with the Code, the Board to Rob Rowley.
Monitoring initiatives to support business b Stood down from the Board on 19 July 2018. considers that the Audit Committee when partnering by the Finance function.
c Stood down from the Board on 26 April 2018. considered as a whole, has the necessary Monitoring Commercial function initiatives to competence relevant to the housebuilding sector further strengthen commercial controls.
2018 performance in which the Company operates.
Gaining assurance that planned processes Oversaw development of policies and and initiatives are progressed within a Main objective processes, ensuring compliance with the robust framework.
To assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate Oversight of joint venture activity to ensure governance responsibilities relating to the Engaged with the senior management team alignment with core frameworks and to ensure an effective risk management and Groups risk management and internal control processes.
framework: internal audit process: financial control framework continued to evolve.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Committee purpose and responsibilities The membership of the Audit Committee is set out in the table opposite.
Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the CEO, Group Finance Director and the other Executive Directors, the Chair and other Non Executive Directors who traditionally attend the key Committee meetings dealing with the Companys interim and full year accounts, Head of Internal Audit, other senior executives and by Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the external auditor.
The Committee also meets privately with representatives from Deloitte during at least two Committee meetings per annum, which normally take place around the time of the Full and Half Year financial statements, in order to discuss any matters which the auditor may wish to raise in confidence, with only the Secretary being present.
Committee activities during 2018 The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year.
The reports considered at the February 2019 meeting concluded the Committees activities with regard to the Companys 2018 reporting and have been included on this page.
At those meetings, the Committee carried out its remit which, in addition to reviewing at each meeting the summary reports of Internal Audit activity and, until the end of 2018, whistleblowing matters, together with details of action taken or proposed in response, primarily included the following: Feb 2018 Jul 2018 Dec 2018 Feb 2019 Reviewed the draft 2017 Annual Reviewed the draft Half Year Reviewed and confirmed the Reviewed the draft 2018 Annual Report and Accounts including Statement for 2018 including processes which allow the Report and Accounts including significant accounting and audit significant accounting issues Committee to ensure that the significant accounting and audit issues: issues of materiality: thereon: materiality: and the 2018 Annual Report and issues: issues of materiality: the external auditors report: external auditors report on its Accounts meets the requirements the external auditors report: and conducted a formal review of that statement.
of Code Principle N, Provision 27, and conducting a formal compliance check.
to present a fair, balanced and compliance check.
Conducted the 2018 Half Year understandable assessment Disclosed relevant audit risk review.
Disclosed relevant audit of the Companys position information to the auditors information to the auditors Received a further detailed and prospects.
and the processes in and the process in place to presentation on progress to place to underpin it.
Reviewed and confirmed the underpin it.
date and plans for further processes which allow the Reviewed the Groups improving the Groups Reviewed the Groups draft Committee to assess the 2017 draft Full Year Results data security.
2018 Full Year Results performance of Deloitte during Statement: and advised the Statement: and advised the Advised the Board regarding the audit: the effectiveness of Board regarding the Board regarding the the appropriateness of the external audit process: and appropriateness of the appropriateness of the proposed dividends.
in light of the findings, to proposed dividends.
Reviewed Deloittes plan for the recommend to the Board as to Concluded the prior Concluded the prior years audit of the Companys 2018 Deloittes re-appointment at the years riskreview.
accounts, and the progress of 2019 AGM.
Reviewed the draft Viability the audit todate.
Reviewed the draft Viability Received a briefing on key Statement to appear in the 2017 Statement to appear in the 2018 Led the appraisal of Deloittes accounting judgements with Annual Report and Accounts.
performance during the audit of regard to the Companys Reviewed the Committees the Companys 2017 results.
performance against its performance against its Oversaw the process leading to objectives for 2017 and set objectives for 2018 and set the Boards Viability Statement objectives for2018.
objectives for 2019. included in its 2018 reporting.
Received the Group legislation Agreed Internal Audits Considered the risk review risk assessment.
programme of work for 2019. outcome for 2018.
Held private meetings Received a detailed presentation withDeloitte and the Head of on progress to date and plans Internal Audit.
for further improving the Groups Agreed Internal Audits IT systems and wider IT programme of work for 2018. security generally.
Conducted an interim review of progress against the Committees objectives for 2018.
84 Audit Committee report continued In addition, at each meeting, the Committee also Between us, I am confident that the members The Boards monitoring covers all controls, reviewed its other areas of responsibility, including: of the Audit Committee have the necessary including financial, operational, compliance competence relevant for the house building and assurance controls which include Financial reporting practices.
sector as envisioned by the Code.
The risk management and internal control As described in the Nomination Committee During 2018 the Board and Audit Committee framework.
Report on page 89, there is a formal process of developed its risk review, appraisal and The internal audit process and the review induction for new Directors and this includes monitoring processes in two ways.
Firstly, of reports received and actions arising specific reference to assisting competence in considerable thought went into the modelling of therefrom.
relevant Committee areas through exposure to the sensitivities underpinning the robustness Checking for any incidences of fraud, actual, appropriate areas of the Companys operations and applicability of the Viability Statement.
alleged or precautionary, and ensuring proper and performance.
Secondly, there was a detailed consideration of controls and a response plan are inplace.
the various ways in which the Company could The adequacy of the Companys All the members of the Audit Committee are be impacted by the possibility of a no-deal whistleblowing procedures and the status of Independent Non Executive Directors and I Brexit and the possibility of preparatory and any investigations following publication of have recent and relevant financial experience as mitigating actions in that respect.
the July 2018 update of the Code, as required by the Code.
explained earlier, responsibility for this area Examples of the Boards and the Committees was transferred to the full Board after the I am confident that the composition: balance: reviews around the possible impact of Brexit Committees December 2018 meeting.
and expertise of the Audit Committee can give are set out in the explanation of the process shareholders confidence that the financial: leading to the making of the Viability Statement In carrying out these activities, the Committee reporting: risk: and control processes of the on page 51: and the assessment of, and places reliance on regular reports from Executive Company are subjected to the appropriate level mitigation steps related to, risk arising from the Management, Internal Audit and from Deloitte.
of independent, robust and challenging oversight.
impact of the market environment on page 46 In monitoring the financial reporting practices, and material costs and the availability of the Committee reviewed accounting policies, Risk management and internal control subcontractors on page 47. areas of judgement highlighted by Executive The Group has established an ongoing process Management and Deloitte, the going concern Compliance with the Groups system of internal of risk management and internal control, applying assumptions and compliance with accounting control is primarily driven and co-ordinated Principle O and its supporting Provisions of the standards and the requirements of the Code.
through compliance with an established Code which relates to determining the nature Operating Framework supported by detailed and extent of principal risks and the maintenance Committee competence manuals covering the main disciplines.
These of sound risk management and internal control include clear levels of delegated authority, A key requirement of the FRCs guidance on systems.
The Board is responsible for the responsibility and accountability, and are Audit Committees is that each Committee effectiveness of the system of internal control, subject to periodic review to ensure they remain member should have sufficient knowledge: which has been designed to meet the appropriate and proportionate to the Groups training: and expertise: to contribute effectively requirements of the Group and the risks it changing strategic and operating requirements.
encounters, over various time horizons, including Adherence to the Operating Framework is taking account of environmental, social and As Committee Chair, I have extensive experience monitored by the senior management team and governance considerations.
The systems cannot assessed independently by Internal Audit.
At its in my role as Chief Finance Officer of Marks and eliminate the risk of failure but rather seek to Spencer Group plc, and previously as Group half year and year end meetings, the Board manage both the likelihood of their occurrence reviews risk in relation to the Companys Finance Director of Dixons Carphone plc, of the and the extent of their impact, and can only financial reporting requirements of FTSE 100 strategic objectives and its current plans to provide reasonable and not absolute assurance deliver them.
It also reviews progress and companies: of financial reporting preparation and against material misstatement or loss.
compliance for public companies: and of dealing performance in action taken to mitigate the impact of those risks.
with internal and external auditors.
I also have The Principal Risks facing the Company, as experience of both attending Audit Committees assessed by the Board, are set out on pages The Board is supported in this by more regular and of being a member of an Audit Committee.
42 to 51, together with information on the and detailed reviews, by the Audit Committee, This experience has given me an insight into key action taken and or planned to mitigate each including the review of reports from Internal Audit, areas of shareholder concern and independent one, and a description on page 43 of the and by risk reviews across the business, led by experience of robustly challenging both the Groups appetite for risk.
These reviews during 2018 resulted in executive and the external and internal auditor.
a number of enhancements to internal controls, The Board makes its assessment of risk half I am assisted by two other Independent designed to better manage risk across the yearly, after overseeing, with advice from the business.
These included: NonExecutive Directors: Audit Committee, a bottom-up and top-down review of risk in all areas of the business, with a Kate Barker has wide experience of key areas in A seamless interface between the Enterprise time horizon of up to five years.
Action to mitigate Resources Planning ERP and the which the Company operates day to day, having the effect of each one is led by the Chief Executive led Government policy reviews into housing supply consolidation system and collection of either directly or indirectly in conjunction with the non-financial data automatically, together with and land use planning.
She also has experience of Group Management Team GMT.
being a nonexecutive director with Man Group plc an improved audit trail of submissions.
and previously with Yorkshire Building Society.
Enhanced self-certification of business unit The Boards assessments use a standard compliance with key controls across all methodology which takes into account Angela Knight has wide experience of financial functional areas.
environmental, social and governance services and banking and has extensive non Rolling-out the complex projects manual across considerations.
In compliance with the Code, executive director experience.
the business and performing the pilot review to the Board, led by the Audit Committee, also confirm that it is being correctly applied.
regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in providing a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 The Committee oversees the actions being taken The Chair of the Audit Committee received a The provision of advice on large Information to monitor Information Technology IT initiatives copy of the findings of the AQR team and has Technology systems.
which aim to either directly protect against and discussed these with Deloitte.
The findings have Services connected with valuation, litigation reduce the risk of cyber-related type attacks and also been discussed by the Audit Committee support, legal, recruitment or remuneration.
fraud: support and enhance the current IT and, where required, an action plan was agreed environment including data protection: or that are with Deloitte to ensure the matters identified by Where non-audit services have an initial or crucial in their contribution to key business the AQR have been addressed in the audit of forecast face value in excess of 100,000 there initiatives aiming to enhance the experience of the Companys 2018 financial statements.
must be prior review and authorisation by the customers, suppliers and employees.
Group Finance Director and the Committee.
The outcome of this review was that the Committee At its meeting in February 2019, the Board, after recommended to the Board, which in turn is The Board is satisfied that this policy meets the conducting its own review and after reviewing more recommending to shareholders in Resolution 13 latest regulation, the EU Audit Directive and Audit detailed assessments from the Audit Committee, at the 2019 AGM on page 181, that Deloitte LLP Regulation 2014, and will be conducive to the remained satisfied that the system of internal should continue as auditor to the Company.
maintenance of good governance, best practice control continued to be effective in identifying, and auditor independence and objectivity.
assessing, and ranking the various risks facing the Tender Company: and in monitoring and reporting Non-audit services in 2018 predominantly related The Company last conducted a tender process progress in mitigating their potential impact on the to work undertaken as a result of Deloittes role as for the external audit in 2007 2008.
The Board also approved the statement auditors, in particular the assurance work carried relating to the requirement for rotation of external of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties set out on out in connection with the announcement of the auditors by FTSE 350 companies permit transitional pages 42 to 51 of this Annual Report.
Companys half year results for 2018, which is of arrangements in line with guidance issued by the direct benefit to shareholders although it is not FRC which, applied to the Company, allow the formally regarded as audit work for reporting Viability statement present auditor, Deloitte, to continue in office up to purposes.
Deloitte also performed cyber security The Committee reviewed the Viability Statement and including the conclusion of the audit of the consultation services, for which they were set out on page 51 together with the methodology Companys 2020 accounts.
This is considered by selected as they were considered to be the best underpinning it: the period it covered: and the the Committee to be in the interests of shareholders supplier for that service.
All independence robustness of the stress-testing undertaken.
The present audit partner, considerations were considered with regard to The review considered that the Board, from Edward Hanson, concludes his five year partner these services, in line with the above policy, and forecasts and reports available to it, has rotation with the audit of the 2018 accounts and in were fully compliant with it.
reasonable visibility over a five year time horizon.
preparation for the rotation to a new partner, his It also noted that the time period coincided with work is being shadowed by Dean Cook who will be The Audit Committee fully recognises and supports the average build-out period for typical the partner for the audit of the Companys 2019 the importance of the independence of auditors.
developments from land acquisition to delivery accounts.
That also allows sufficient time thereafter Its review of the auditors performance during 2018 to customers.
The outcome of that review was for the Committee to prepare for the external audit included non-audit services.
The Committee is that the period covered by the statement and to be the subject of a competitive tender of satisfied that the carrying out of the above work the robustness of the stress-testing were each alternative firms to Deloitte, during 2020.
The did not, and will not going forward, impair the considered to be appropriate and accordingly Company will of course keep the matter under independence of the external auditor.
It also the Committee recommended its approval to regular review, taking into account the annual recognises that, from time to time, there is a clear the Board.
performance review to be conducted by the commercial advantage based on cost and Committee as well as other relevant factors.
timetable requirements in using the Companys Thereare no contractual restrictions on the External auditor auditors.
As a result, the value of non-audit services Companys selection of its external auditor.
Re-appointment work was 0.1m in 2018 2017: 0.1m which represents approximately 20% of the audit fee as As noted earlier, Deloitte LLP is the Companys Statement of compliance set out in Note 6 to the Accounts on page 143. external auditor.
Their performance is kept under The Company has complied throughout the regular review by the Board and the Audit reporting year with the provisions of The Internal Audit Committee and the Committee undertakes a formal Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies assessment of the external audit process each year The Internal Audit function reviews the effectiveness Market Investigation Mandatory Use of including both current and ongoing suitability.
and efficiency of the systems of internal control in Competitive Tender Processes and Audit place to safeguard the assets: to quantify, price, Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
This review takes the form of a detailed checklist transfer, avoid or mitigate risks: and to monitor the and questionnaire issued to Directors: executives activities of the Group in accomplishing established Appointment of the auditor for involved in the detailed stages of the audit process: objectives.
The annual Internal Audit plan, and the non-audit services and a representative sample of employees in individual audits conducted in line with the audit regional business units which were subject to audit.
The Audit Committee has a formal policy, plan, are driven primarily by the principal risks faced The responses were augmented by external reviewed annually, on whether the Companys by the business.
Following each review an Internal feedback on the relative performance of auditors external auditor should be employed to provide Audit report is provided to both the management generally, and from regulatory sources.
services other than audit services.
In line with responsible for the area reviewed and the GMT.
the Code, the Committee has regard to the These reports outline Internal Audits opinion of the The regulatory sources included the Financial relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision management control framework in place together Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review AQR of non-audit services by Deloitte.
with actions indicating improvements proposed or team, which selected to review the audit of the made as appropriate.
The Chief Executive, the Companys 2017 financial statements as part As part of that policy, the Committee has GMT and senior management consider the reports of their 2017 annual inspection of audit firms.
determined that the following assignments on a regular basis and are responsible for ensuring The focus of the review and their reporting should not be undertaken by the auditors: that improvements are made as agreed.
is on identifying areas where improvements Adatabase of audit recommendations and are required rather than highlighting areas Bookkeeping or other services related to the improvement initiatives is maintained.
Follow-up performed to or above the expected level.
accounting records or financial statements.
and escalation processes ensure that such Internal audit outsourcing services.
improvements are implemented and fully embedded in a timely manner.
86 Audit Committee report continued The Company belongs to and participates in Viability Statement Significant items industry-wide forums and other initiatives aimed The Viability Statement is designed to be a longer The items below are those that the Audit at combating fraud within the housebuilding and term view of the sustainability of the Companys Committee have considered in discharging their construction industry.
strategy and business model and related duties and in considering the financial reporting resourcing, in the light of projected wider economic of the Group.
Summaries of all key Internal Audit reviews and and market developments.
The Committee activity and resulting reports are provided to the reviewed the Directors expectations: the criteria Cost allocation of inventory Audit Committee for review and discussion.
upon which they were based: and the sensitivities The cost allocation framework used across the applied: and agreed that they were reasonable.
Group, controls the way in which inventory is The Internal Audit function also formally reviews The statement appears on page 51 together with costed and allocated across each development.
proposed related-party transactions, such as details of the processes, assumptions, and testing It also ensures that any costs incurred in excess purchases by employees from Group companies, which underpin it.
of the original budget are recognised appropriately to ensure proper procedures are followed and that as the site progresses.
The Committee reviewed such procedures are undertaken strictly in Annual Report and Accounts 2018 reports and recommendations from the senior accordance with the formal policy in place and, management team in relation to areas of the where applicable, company law.
Code Principle N Provision 27 business recognising cost excesses.
The The Board has responsibility, under Principle N, Committee also reviewed the work undertaken by The most recent independent formal evaluation of Provision 27 of the Code, for preparing the Deloitte LLP which included testing of the the Internal Audit function was carried out in 2015 Companys Annual Report and Accounts: Group-wide controls to monitor cost allocation.
on behalf of the Audit Committee by PwC and its for ensuring that it is fair, balanced and These reviews enabled the Committee to gain finding was that Internal Audit continues to operate understandable: and that it provides the assurance that the framework is effectively.
A number of initiatives were progressed information necessary for shareholders to applied consistently.
subsequently to ensure the Internal Audit function assess the Companys position, performance, continues to meet both current best practice and business model and strategy.
Defined Benefit Pension valuations the evolving needs of the Group.
The next such evaluation will be carried out during 2020.
The Committee reviewed the funding position of Process the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme and the The review of the Companys Annual Report and The Internal Audit Charter, which codifies the Groups processes for estimating the additional Accounts took the form of a detailed assessment aims, processes and outputs of Internal Audit, obligation arising from the equalisation of of the collaborative process of drafting them, was reviewed by the Committee during the year Guaranteed Minimum Pension accrued by the which involves the Companys Investor Relations: for ongoing appropriateness.
The Committee also discussed Company Secretariat: and Finance Departments, and agreed the market based assumptions used to with guidance and input from other relevant The Internal Audit function and its reporting lines establish the net pension deficit recognised on the Departments and external advisers.
It ensured that enable it to be independent of the executive and balance sheet at 31 December 2018. there is a clear and unified link between this to exercise independent judgement.
Annual Report and Accounts and the Companys Leasehold and ACM cladding provisions other external reporting, and between the three The Head of Internal Audit has direct access at The Committee reviewed the work undertaken main sections of the Annual Report and Accounts all times to the Chair of the Audit Committee, the by the senior management team to identify all the Strategic Report: the Governance Reports: Chair of the Board and also to the Chief legacy and current buildings with ACM cladding and the Financial Statements.
Executive and the other Executive Directors.
materials and reviewed the estimates and assumptions used to determine the exceptional In particular, the Committee: Going concern provision recognised in the year.
The Committee The Group has prepared forecasts, including also reviewed senior management updates on Reviewed all material matters, as reported certain sensitivities, taking into account the the leasehold provision, including utilisation in the elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties identified on year, level of applications received and the latest Ensured that it correctly reflected the pages 42 to 51.
Having considered these management assumptions.
Companys performance in the reporting forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that the year, as described in this Annual Report.
Groups financing arrangements and capital Recommendation to the Board Ensured that it presented a consistent structure provide both the necessary facilities and message throughout.
A summary of the above process and of the covenant headroom to enable the Group to Ensured that it correctly reflected the Committees findings in respect thereof, was conduct its business for at least the next considered by the Board at its meeting on Companys business model, as 12 months.
The Committee reviewed the described on pages 28 to 29.
The outcome of that review forecasts and the Directors expectations based was that the Committee confirmed to the Board Ensured that it correctly described the thereon, and agreed that they were reasonable.
that the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts met Companys strategy, as described on pages Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements the requirements of Code Section 4 Principle N 12 to 26. have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Provision 27, and the Boards formal statement Considered whether it presented the to that effect, to meet the requirements of the information in a clear and concise manner, Code, is set out on page 80. illustrated by appropriate KPIs, to facilitate shareholders access to relevant information.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
