AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS LETTER COORDINATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee remains primarily responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process, including the appointment of external auditors and the implementation of accounting policies and practices.
This serves to ensure the integrity, accuracy and full disclosure of the Groups financial condition and assists the Board with its assessment of the going concern status of the Company and the provision of its Viability Statement.
The Audit Committee has given the Board of the Company our view that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of our financial statements.
In relation to the risk assessment function, the Group has a separate Board-level committee responsible for risk, ethics and compliance, the RECC, which is chaired by Nikoloz Enukidze, who is also a member of the Audit Committee.
Nicholas Haag, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, is, in Dear shareholders, turn, a member of the RECC.
Please see pages 50 to 69 for a description of the Groups risk management framework I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report and pages 133 to 135 for the RECCs report.
The Audit Committee reviews relevant content in the Annual Report, interim statements and other finance-related information and press releases.
The Audit Committee also supervises the Banks systems of internal control with Nicholas Haag regard to its financial reporting and certain operational Chairman of the Audit Committee risks, such as supporting internal investigations into any identified control weaknesses or fraud-related events.
The 2 April 2019 Audit Committee evaluates Managements competence in all these areas, in order to ensure that Management takes COMMITTEE STRUCTURE AND ROLE any necessary corrective steps in a timely manner, so that any vulnerabilities are addressed.
Since the Companys incorporation in 2016, there have been two separate but inter-connected audit committees in the During the course of 2018, the Committee continued to Group for each of the Company and the Bank, which have coordinate closely with other board committees.
With common membership and perform a joint function within regard to the Risk Committee, we jointly reviewed the the Group.
In practice, we consider both audit committees areas of overlap between the two committees particularly as complementary and somewhat fungible with both of in areas such as operational risk, credit risk modelling and them being focused on optimising governance of the Group assessment of the Banks culture in relation to risk and as a whole, especially because the Bank represents 97% ethics in order to avoid any duplication of functions and of the Groups total assets.
Nevertheless, we continue to ensure the seamless and comprehensive oversight of to ensure that particular resolutions are passed by the these vital areas.
In a similar manner, the Audit Committee appropriate audit committee with as little duplication as worked closely with the Remuneration Committee to possible, while making sure that there is seamless coconfirm that there are no improper incentives which operation between the two committees to avoid any gaps in could weaken controls or may lead to management bias, overall scrutiny.
For the purpose of this report, we refer to for example in areas such as the provision of loans and the two committees collectively as the Audit Committee.
The lines of communication with Management remain open with constructive, candid and continual dialogue taking place throughout the year.
The Audit Committee draws on sufficient administrative resources, benefiting in particular in 2018 from the strengthening of the Board Secretariat and Company Secretary functions.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that it receives sufficient, reliable and timely information from Management and from both our internal and external Auditors.
156 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 by external specialists on pending new accounting COMMITTEE COMPOSITION, regulations, the evolving interpretation of recentlyCOMPETENCE AND INDEPENDENCE introduced accounting standards IFRS9, for example and As of 2 April 2019, the Audit Committee of the Company relevant developments in corporate governance the 2018 comprises four non-executive directors.
In September updates to UK Corporate Governance Code, for example.
2018 we welcomed two new Board members onto the Audit We continue to review, in conjunction with our Corporate Committee, Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia Governance and Nominations Committee, suitable who now join Nikoloz Enukidze and Nicholas Haag.
Maria medium-term succession plans for Audit Committee and Tsira bring extensive prior experience and knowledge, membership.
Our priority, as ever, is to select prospective obtained at major international institutions, to the Audit members with sufficient technical experience, for example Committee.
Tsira has particular expertise in the fields of in the audit industry.
Maria Luisa brings with her extensive senior listed company experience at chairperson level both from within EU and emerging market banks.
I ATTENDANCE AT COMMITTEE wish to express my thanks to retiring Committee members, Stephan Wilcke, Stefano Marsaglia and Eric Rajendra for The attendance level at Audit Committee meetings for their past contribution to our team.
The majority of the meetings took place in London and were either physical or All non-executive directors have been deemed as telephonic meetings.
With regard to telephonic meetings, independent under the Code, which applies to companies the majority of the attendees participated from locations listed on the premium segment of the London Stock within the UK, where 4 of the 5 members were resident.
In addition, members of the Audit Committee Attendance at the Banks Audit Committee meetings continue to satisfy the director independence criteria, as was also 98%.
A higher proportion of these meetings defined by the Georgian Corporate Governance Code for were held in Georgia, as the Committee remains keen Commercial Banks.
We are confident that all members to maintain a suitable level of interaction with a range continue to exercise fully independent judgement in all of on-the-ground staff, particularly those operating in matters related to the Audit Committees functions.
Therefore, we believe that this is most practically undertaken by hosting meetings in the All members of the Audit Committee see biographies Banks home country.
The attendances of members at the on pages 120-124 are financially literate and possess a Audit Committee meetings during 2018 are set out in the detailed understanding of the financial services sector, with Directors Governance statement on page 111. backgrounds primarily in the fields of banking both EU and emerging and frontier markets across several continents.
With the addition of Tsira Kemularia, the Audit Committee COMMITTEE MEETING FORMAT will also now benefit from the presence of a member who AND FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS possesses experience with a major global oil corporation.
This will serve to broaden the range of perspectives the In the course of 2018 there were 9 formal meetings of the Audit Committee has to draw upon.
The majority of our Audit Committee of the Company and 11 for the Banks members have served on, or acted as chair of, the audit Audit Committee.
The minutes of each of these meetings and risk committees of other comparable institutions.
In addition, committee members remain has given them the commercial and financial experience in communication with one another by telephone or email required to guide and challenge management and both our regarding various matters relating to Audit Committee internal and external auditors.
work, on an almost weekly basis.
The Board has confirmed its belief that the Audit Committee At each formal meeting, the Audit Committee met with has the recent and relevant expertise to operate effectively senior members of Management, and Internal and External and recognises that it draws upon expert external Audit.
We have in place a standing invitation for the CEO, resources, as and when required.
Only one member of CFO and CRO to attend our Audit Committee meetings.
the Committee has a substantially full time executive role Our External Auditors, PwC, are invited to participate in in another organisation.
All other members devote their and contribute to meetings on all topics where there is time to other boards of a supervisory nature and ensure no direct conflict of interest for example when discussing that they have sufficient time to dedicate themselves to reappointment of the auditors, their performance, their responsibilities with the Company.
training is available to members of the Audit Committee.
Recent examples of such training have included updates TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 157 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Audit Committee of the Company met at least twice with certain regional economies making progress, whilst either during or around each quarter of 2018, broadly in others remain distressed.
The risk of a sudden downturn accordance with our quarterly financial reporting cycle.
At will always be present, due to changing local, regional or least one such quarterly meeting coincided with the timing of global dynamics.
As a result the Audit Committee, in a Board meetings of the Company, with the Audit Committee similar vein as the RECC, closely tracks relevant economic meeting taking place prior to that of the Board.
This format data for warning signs.
enabled us to formally present our summary findings to We are equally vigilant in respect of any evidence of the Board.
These reports, in certain instances, highlighted complacency, which could in turn lead to a risk of slippage scope for process improvement and invited responses from in the high standards we both require and expect of Management.
This led to the implementation of follow-up ourselves.
The Committee will seek to ensure that any actions, which were formally minuted by the Board.
unexpected deterioration in the Georgian economy will trigger extra vigilance on our part in relation to financial AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS controls and reporting.
The Companys Audit Committees Terms of Reference were The Committee remains as focused as ever on ensuring the reviewed and approved with no changes by the Committee integrity of our financial releases and internal records.
The document is available on TBCs Committee pre-vets all audited and non-audited financial website at www.
The Audit Committee releases, before making recommendations to the Board Charter of the Bank was reviewed and approved by the that they approve these.
The Committee holds formal Audit Committee of the Bank in the same month.
discussions with Management, in particular the CFO and his finance team, about each of these releases, typically In March, the Companys Audit Committee conducted an with a multi-stage drafting, review and approval process.
annual Effectiveness Self-Review using an extensive and We communicate with the External Auditor telephonically customised questionnaire, drawing on an international and in writing before approving releases prepared on an best practice questionnaire devised by an external firm.
We also monitor the financial In addition, the entire Board included in its wider Selfdata published on the Companys website to ensure its Assessment certain questions relating to the efficacy of accuracy and clarity.
the Audit Committee, amongst other committees.
Both the Audit Committee and the Board concluded that the former is We have noted the FRCs comments regarding the wider constituted properly, operates effectively and carries out all trend for lower level errors that may be creeping into its responsibilities as laid out in its Terms of Reference and companies financial statements and detracting from the the Charter.
Furthermore, a wider external review of Board integrity of their report and accounts.
We observe that this effectiveness was conducted by a London-based specialist has not been the experience for either the Company or the firm during the year and made certain recommendations Bank.
in relation to possible incremental improvements mostly concerning the style and structure of meetings for the Audit The Committee is conscious of the recommendations of Committee which are being progressively implemented.
European authorities and the FRC as regards improving the reporting of alternate performance measures APMs.
We track carefully what APMs the Company uses QUALITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in its financial reporting and apply guidelines in this regard from the European Securities and Markets Authority The Audit Committee is conscious that the Group is a ESMA.
The Company discloses a limited number of premium listed company on the London Stock Exchange APMs, such as adjusted cost to income ratio, risk-adjusted and the largest financial services company in the Georgian net interest margins and various other return metrics.
We market, which entails both legal and social responsibilities consider that most of these for example return metrics to shareholders and, importantly, other stakeholders also.
preas well as post-provision are in common usage, are Our business is overwhelmingly tied to the performance consistently used in context and are meaningful additions of the Georgian economy.
In 2018, Georgia delivered a 1 to our reporting designed to clarify rather than obfuscate strong real GDP growth of 4.8%, an improvement on our financial position and do not detract in any way from the prior years already very healthy growth trajectory, our core IFRS numbers.
Several APMs that were previously with some modest slowing in the second half of the year.
used in relation to various acquisitions notably Bank Momentum in the Georgian economy is expected to be Republic were inherently time-limited and have been restored in 2019, with the National Bank of Georgia and discontinued.
international organisations estimating GDP growth in the range of 4.5-5.0%.
Nevertheless, the regional picture with which the economy of Georgia is interconnected and on which it is partially dependent remains somewhat volatile, 1 Based on initial estimates by Geostat 158 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 London, both by way of in-person visits and remotely.
Both EXTERNAL AUDIT TEAM, Jeremy and Agnieszka Accordi see below have made COORDINATION AND PLANNING multiple trips to Tbilisi over the course of 2018.
The Audit Committee collectively believes that PwC made In our view, Jeremy has exhibited not only strong technical reliable and effective judgements at all stages, identified skills but also a good understanding of our business, and focused on areas of greatest risk and convincingly the country and sector and a willingness to challenge articulated their testing strategy in 2018.
We are satisfied the Audit Committee and Management.
In 2017 we that the markets and models to which valuations are welcomed Agnieszka as the new PwC audit partner for marked have liquidity and transaction profiles that are the Banks audit and she has continued to develop a deep adequate and sufficiently robust.
We believe that all understanding of the Bank and its audit issues, as well off balance sheet and contingent liabilities have been as bringing to us the benefit of experience from other sufficiently identified and disclosed in sufficient detail.
Other members of the audit team in The Committee makes recommendations on the both London and Tbilisi remain very largely unchanged, to appointment or potentially removal and compensation of ensure good audit team continuity knowledge.
External Auditors and seeks to maximise the value of the Jeremy Foster appointed as lead engagement partner external audit relationship.
We assess and approve audit since 2016, is planning to retire from PwC during 2019 and scope and frequency, make recommendations to auditors we have agreed with PwC that his role from 5 April 2019 on areas for particular focus and receive and review key will be taken by another UK-based senior audit partner, external audit planning and progress reports.
Allan has deep experience in auditing UKregistered financial services companies at FTSE350 level.
The Audit Committee of the Company held multiple audit PwC are taking steps to manage a seamless transition planning meetings with PwC in 2018 both in London and and as a Committee we look forward to working with Allan in Tbilisi, commencing this process in the middle of the with whom we have already held a number of introductory year.
The Audit Committee had the opportunity without meetings.
The Committee wishes to thank Jeremy for his involvement of Management to highlight areas it wished work with the Company since it created its PLC holding the External Auditor to focus on, flagging relevant concerns company structure and the locus of Group accounting and trends and discussing the appropriate audit response.
engagement shifted more to the UK.
As noted, the Committee has a policy of regular quarterly face to face discussions with PwC as part of our formal The audit coverage and the judgements about underlying meeting agendas, proactively and mutually addressing any audit materiality have been explained to us satisfactorily.
material audit or control issues.
In addition, the Chairman, We agreed with PwC an overall consolidated Group and often other members of the Committee, had a number audit materiality sum of GEL 25.5m and a slightly lower of more informal i. e. not minuted meetings with PwC at number GEL 24.2m for the Bank, a marginal increase on frequent intervals throughout the year.
These meetings 2017 reflecting the further expansion in Group size and combined mutual audit planning execution updates with profitability.
We continue to believe that pre-tax profitability some element of briefing or training to Audit Committee 5% is a suitable and meaningful materiality basis for the members on the latest developments in accounting Company given the relatively stable performance of our regulations and corporate governance.
PwC often shared profitability metric over the years and have agreed that with us experiences of best practice across their full materiality for the Bank should be 95% of that for the international audit spectrum and this provided both parties Group, the Bank representing around 97% in total assets with the opportunity for open dialogue.
The Chairman and and around 96% in profitability.
majority of Committee members are based in the UK and enjoy ready access to the audit team there.
EXTERNAL AUDIT AND AUDIT COMMITTEE Given the holding company structure of the Group, both the London and Tbilisi practices of PwC are fully involved in the AREAS OF FOCUS external audit process for the Group.
In the opinion of the We have reviewed, in conjunction with in-house Finance, Audit Committee, this double coverage works well and Risk and Internal Audit teams, all the data and narrative provides some extra reassurance to us in terms of scrutiny.
comment and concluded that the Annual Report and The group engagement partner, Jeremy Foster is fully full year financial statements taken as a whole give a aware of his overall responsibility and ultimate sign-off complete, true, fair, balanced and understandable view of duties, and the cooperation and communication between the Companys financial position and are consistent with the two practices seems to be well coordinated with a the Committees understanding of the facts and provide common audit methodology and drawing as required on the information necessary for shareholders and other wider international subject matter experts of the firm.
The stakeholders to assess the financial condition of the London team coordinates the entire audit for the Company Group.
There have been no significant or enduring points with audit instructions issued by London and systems in of difference of opinion between the Committee and PwC place for the monitoring of PwCs Tbilisis work by PwC or between the Committee and the Board or Management.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 159 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Provisions and impairments The Audit Committee, benefiting from work streams led We have, as always, assessed the reasonableness and by the RECC, continues to monitor on a regular basis appropriateness of all critical accounting estimates and  loans on the Banks watch list judgements in applying accounting policies and have been but also  loans that are less than clear with regard to the differences between what constitutes ninety days past due and not yet classified as impaired such estimates and judgements.
In the numerous planning to calibrate any deterioration of credit quality that may meetings held between the Audit Committee and PwC, feed through into impairments.
We have not observed there were a number of areas of focus.
Key accounting any trend deterioration other than in the higher-yielding judgements and significant estimates were identified and non-mortgage consumer loan portfolio which was fully have been addressed with appropriate resources, including anticipated as part of the lending business model.
The Company has Evidently, one of the biggest factors impacting and also enhanced its financial reporting to comply with new corporate reflecting the Georgian economy is the stability of the reporting requirements.
We agreed with PwC that the two local Lari currency.
The Lari has been prone to periods most significant audit-related risks were management of volatility again in 2018, even though it was to a lesser overriding of controls and the provisions for impairment extent than during previous years, partly due to seasonal of loans and guarantees.
Other risks in terms of areas of factors.
However depreciation against the US dollar over judgement that we asked PwC to focus on included accruals the course of the year was just 3.3%.
The Committee in for litigation and claims, collateral values supporting our reviewing provisioning levels has sought and received loan book, net realisable value of repossessed collateral, fair detailed data on such currency mismatches and the RECC value of securities and derivatives, share based payments has performed a deep-dive into this risk issue.
We note and impairment of goodwill.
that, in previous periods of national currency volatility, our In terms of loan provisions, PwC has worked independently, assumptions regarding the impact of this on the quality reporting to the Audit Committee, verifying the current of our loan book have proven reassuringly cautious on a provisioning methodology used by the Bank, challenging back-tested basis.
We note that the welcome larization these assumptions and examining individual mostly policy of the Georgian government has and will continue corporate loan exposures on the non-performing and to diminish the credit and financial reporting risk arising.
watch lists and confirming the completeness of this watch FY 2018 as the first year fully adopting IFRS 15 list which we note tends to be stable in composition without In addition to IFRS 9, the Audit Committee has been focused frequent additions that would indicate a deteriorating book on the correct adoption of and transition towards certain or poor capture of problem loans.
We have also sought to new accounting standards.
The new IFRS 15 standard use our judgement to back-test the reliability of the Banks effective from January 2018 has replaced existing IFRS previous impairment assumptions which we have found to revenue recognition guidance.
This change resulted in no be generally conservative compared to observed reality.
material impact, since there were no material changes FY 2018 as the first full year adopting IFRS 9 to the revenue recognition process of applicable revenue Following the formal adoption of the standard from the streams, as the Group had already been recognizing beginning of 2018, IFRS 9 was clearly an audit priority for revenue over period of time, in line with the fulfilment of the Audit Committee this year.
As noted, this was almost the respective performance obligation.
by definition an area of elevated risk in the audit given Implementation of IFRS 16 as of 1 1 2019 that the implications for the Bank are significant, as is IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, the case for most European banks, due to the increased measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases and number of management financial reporting judgments became effective as of January 2019.
IFRS 16 will change and surrounding disclosure obligations.
We asked PwC the reporting standard of leasing transactions for lessees, to conduct a substantive test of our IFRS 9 methodologies eliminating the classification of leases as either operating including a critical assessment of management experts or finance leases as required by IAS17 and introducing backtesting and model effectiveness in predicting expected a single accounting model.
We have finalised an impact credit losses and challenging overlays and post-model assessment and the Group will recognise a right of use adjustments.
Assumptions for determining values have asset against a corresponding lease liability on 1 January been scrutinised and challenged by us.
The Committee discussed this matter with the that PwC concluded that the Banks IFRS 9 models are CFO and with PwC and is satisfied that this represents a not significantly sensitive to probability-weighted forward suitable implementation of the new standard.
Clearly there are areas of IFRS 9, including forward-looking economic assumptions, which Managements ability to override controls still remain unobservable or judgemental and cannot be In terms of the significant risk of management override conclusively proven by back-testing but we believe that PwC of controls, we note that this is a priority risk factor on all have adequately responded to this risk in terms of assessing audit engagements, especially in a banking context, since their reliance on our controls and calibrating their audit management is responsible for the design and operation accordingly.
160 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 of systems to prevent and detect fraud and thus in a unique Stock Exchange in 2016, the audit rotation rules permitted position to manipulate accounting records.
In response the 10-year audit clock for the mandatory tendering of PwC conducted required testing of controls backed up by the Group audit to be re-set, to start in that year, obviating substantive testing of specific items.
any requirement for a mandatory audit tender in the foreseeable future.
In 2018, the Bank conducted external tax audits of various subsidiaries in respect of the 2017 tax year.
The Audit Nevertheless, PwC has been the Groups and the Committee also supervised an internal review of the Companys external auditor since 2008 and 2016 organisation of tax workstreams in the Bank, including tax respectively.
Therefore, the Committee held extensive strategy, tax risk and transfer pricing policy.
discussions during the year on the merits and demerits of putting the Companys audit out for tender.
Consequently Deferred tax the Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, embarked Another focus area of the Audit Committee has been on a series of discussions during the year with three other the treatment of deferred tax balances under Georgian major international accounting firms and conducted a changes in tax regulation.
In 2016, the Georgian benchmarking exercise in respect of the potential appetite, government enacted changes to incentivise the skillset and likely fees proposed by other firms were reinvestment of corporate profits.
The new code will they to take over our audit.
We concluded that a superior impact the recognition and measurement principles of the offering at more competitive rates was not yet on offer.
In Groups income tax and also affects the Groups deferred particular, we regret that more Big Four audit firms are not income tax assets liabilities.
This law was due to come into yet adequately resourced in the Georgian market, although effect for the banking sector from January 2019 but a later we do observe an encouraging trend in this direction.
The amendment postponed tax relief for reinvested profit from Audit Committee carried out a formal External Auditor January 2019 to January 2023 for financial institutions.
Assessment Review in late-2018, which confirmed our This amendment has resulted in a GEL17.4M expense on view that PwC continue to perform satisfactorily.
the profit and loss statement and a GEL 5.1M reduction in equity in 2018.
However, when enacted this potentially taxIn addition we held a series of relationship meetings free reinvestment of future profits, assuming the same or with PwC in both London and Tbilisi to discuss potential similar dividend payout, will nonetheless have a positive improvements in terms of their commitment to the Group effect on lowering the Groups future effective tax rate by especially of resources from their wide international several percentage points, beginning in 2023. network of subject matter experts as well as their fee charging metrics.
The Audit Committee collectively National Bank of Georgia Investigation concluded, with the concurrence of the Board, that we The Audit Committee was actively involved in the review and had reached a satisfactory understanding with PwC.
We response to the recent inspection by the NBG and related also discussed and agreed that the combination of a new actions by the Georgian Office of Public Prosecution of lead engagement partner in London for the Companys certain transactions which took place in 2007 and 2008. audit and a relatively new lead partner for the Banks audit As independent directors, we have taken all appropriate would give us sufficient assurance over fresh pairs of legal advice with regard to our responsibilities and actions eyes and reduce any risk of over-familiarity.
We will review in this scenario.
The Audit Committee has worked closely again the case for and against a formal audit tender during with advisors, directors and the governance authorities in 2019 2020 and will make a decision at that time based on the Bank in order to reach informed conclusions.
Further the Boards continuing satisfaction with the service and details of the inspection are outlined on page 68. value offered by our incumbent auditor.
In the meantime, we will take an even more sceptical view of allowing PwC to undertake any non-audit work that is not inherently tied EXTERNAL AUDIT QUALITY, TENDER to its role as our external auditor.
ASSESSMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT We have discussed with PwC the investigation by the As noted earlier, the Audit Committee is responsible National Bank of Georgia into events of 2007 8, and agreed for the assessment of the performance, objectivity and certain follow up actions.
PwC confirm to us that they have independence of the External Auditor and the delivery of a undertaken additional audit procedures, which confirm quality audit.
Each year the Audit Committee is required to their original audit risk assessment related to internal consider the reappointment of the auditors, the suitability controls and related party transactions.
On this basis, the of the lead engagement partner as well as the wider audit Committee and PwC are both satisfied that there is no team and the remuneration and terms of engagement for further evidence to suggest similar transactions that would the chosen auditor.
This consideration has gained our affect the audit opinion.
Given the above considerations, it is focus since UK implementation of the EU Audit Regulations our belief that the Company has complied for the financial for Public Interest Entities.
Given the incorporation of the year under review with the requirements of The Statutory Company and associated premium listing on the London Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 161 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED collateral for our loans.
Contracts were shared between 5 EXTERNAL AUDITOR FEES, INDEPENDENCE different firms beyond PwC.
We will continue to work with AND PROVISION OF NON-AUDIT SERVICES other firms not only to preserve auditor independence but to build relations and user experience with these firms that PwC provide the financial audit both for the Company and may be useful when we come to tender our audit contract the Bank.
In 2018 fees to PwC for total contracted auditin due course.
related work for the Group totalled approximately using year end exchange rates US$771,200 net of taxes of which PwC have confirmed in writing in their annual nearly 28% was for the Companys audit and the rest for independence letter both their independence and that no the Banks.
For our 2019 audit, subject to confirmation blacklisted prohibited non-audit services were provided and shareholders approval of their reappointment, we during the course of 2018.
Reviewing and ensuring the continue to discuss with PwC the audit fees and additional continuation of the independence and objectivity of PwC resource commitment from them.
as our external statutory auditors is an important factor As a committee, we are following closely the extensive in fulfilling our governance procedures as an Audit debate and multiple commissioned official reports Committee and is equally monitored by PwC, who have concerning UK audit quality, competition and regulations.
their own processes for pre-approving any non-audit We await the outcome of these studies and also any services that they may be invited to provide.
regulatory impact of Brexit given potential changes to EU We remain satisfied, taking account also of the views of rules in relation to audit.
In the meantime all four major UK Internal Audit and Management, that PwC have a robust audit firms have announced that they broadly support a ban process for maintaining independence and monitoring such most likely from 2020 on UK auditors selling consultancy compliance in accordance with the FRC Revised Ethical services to their audit clients.
In our view, as formally confirmed in a Committee meeting resolution in December, PwC continue The Audit Committee is rigorous in ensuring that all nonto offer an independent, professional and cost-effective audit assignments to our External Auditor do not jeopardise service that is capable of detecting irregularities leading the latters proper independence of judgement.
We will to material misstatements in the financial statements and typically use our External Auditor only where such nonhave brought to bear an appropriate degree of professional audit services are required by legislation to be undertaken scepticism.
Any potential threats to auditor objectivity, by the incumbent auditor or where the service is an such as overfamiliarity or self-review are constrained by immediate by product of the audit process.
In particular, we are convinced that all such engagements, without exception or derogation, the objectivity of the lead audit engagement partner and are first recommended by the CFO and must be approved audit staff is not impaired.
We reached this conclusion on in advance by the Audit Committee and we will only use the basis of PwCs openness to challenge, our perception PwC for non-audit and of course non-prohibited services of their proper independence from Management and where there is either a clear synergy with their audit role or absence of any material prior year financial restatements.
where they offer superior competence or materially better We are satisfied that the markets and models to which commercial terms.
We have a system in place for precisely valuations are marked have liquidity and transaction tracking procurement and tendering for all non-audit profiles that are adequate and sufficiently robust.
As noted, we have already agreed to believe that all off balance sheet and contingent liabilities minimise all non-audit work contracted with our External have been sufficiently identified and disclosed in sufficient Auditor.
In terms of non-audit services NAS, in 2018 PwC were engaged only for the certification of financial covenants INTERNAL AUDIT GOVERNANCE and the fees for NAS amounted to a negligible sum, less than $10,000 and less than 1% of audit services in 2017 and The Committee has continued its detailed dialogue 2018.
Total spend with all non-PwC audit firms amounted with Internal Audit IA during the year.
The Audit to approximately $0.5M excluding taxes of which part Committee relies heavily on IA to provide an objective and related to audit of various small entities within TBC Group professionally sceptical view of how the Bank is handling and most was for consultancy-type projects.
The Company a number of key financial and non-financial reporting and made an effort to broaden its relevant service providers record-keeping tasks.
Whilst primary responsibility to beyond the Big Four and we paid some $0.1M to smaller manage risk always resides with Management, IAs role, as international accountancy firms.
The largest single nonthe third line of defence, is to identify potential problems audit spend item was paid for due diligence in relation and recommend ways of improving risk management and to Nikoil Bank, the Azeri firm with which TBC Kredit is internal controls.
The Audit Committee meets regularly merging in that country, and other significant items related with the Head of IA Chief Audit Executive CAE with to tax audits and backtesting of our IFRS9 models, other no management present.
The CAE always attends the IFRS automation projects, budgeting and profitability entirety of our Audit Committee meetings.
The Chairman automation process as well as valuation of real estate as of the Audit Committee is in at least monthly and often 162 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 weekly contact with the CAE, who functionally reports Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors in its September unambiguously to him.
Given the overlap of particularly 2017 guidance on effective internal audit in the financial operational risk issues, the CAE is now invited to attend services sector.
We supervised the Banks first ever also meetings of the Banks Risk Committee.
External Quality Assessment of our IA function which was recently completed by a Big Four consultant following a We are satisfied that IA has sufficient human and financial tender to multiple candidate firms both within and beyond resources to perform its role and the Audit Committee has the Big Four.
We were reassured by the results in terms where necessary requested additional funds for them to of conformity with the Code of Ethics and International purchase the training and tools e. g. specialist software Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal necessary for them to function effectively.
Various recommendation were made and will be hired a new internal auditor for IT risk who has a strong implemented, in particular we noted the recommendation background in information security.
The Audit Committee for more regular high-level alignment between IA and requires all IA executives to attend training including for other assurance providers, notably the chief risk and chief relevant international Certified Internal Auditor exams.
Recently, the senior team attended training in London at the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
Experienced IA have delivered their annual assurance statement which internal audit resources are a finite skill pool in Georgia but sets out the CAEs opinion together with the summarised we are lucky to have a competent team.
reports of the internal audit work performed during the year and a summary of audit performance in comparison IAs Audits Charter was reviewed and approved in to the plan and an assessment of compliance with auditing December 2018, largely unchanged from the previous standards.
The Audit Committee routinely reviews IAs remit, annual and rolling five year plans, provides feedback on INTERNAL AUDIT PROJECTS it and authorises any changes to its scope.
We provide targets for and formal assessment of IA and ensure that it AND EVOLUTION is effective and suitably embedded in the organisation.
The IA seeks to complete audits of all the Banks key operating CAE routinely attends as observer monthly Management units on a regular recurring basis structured through Board meetings, makes an extensive quarterly submission a rolling audit plan agreed in advance with the Audit to the Audit Committee and delivers a formal status Committee.
Such planned audits continued throughout the report on its work at every Board meeting.
The Audit year and 99% of all pre-agreed internal audit assignments Committee solely determines Internal Audits budget and were completed in 2018.
We track very closely all compensation including variable bonus payments to the deficiencies both in terms of severity and trend and CAE and her staff: the Audit Committee is also responsible scrutinise remediation follow-up with historic analyses for supervising the annual personal performance being carefully maintained.
Units of the Bank which assessment of the CAE drawing on input from peers, showed weaknesses are routinely re-inspected to confirm direct reports and senior management including the if improvements have been made and the Committee CEO and CFO.
The Audit Committee has conducted an updated on the results of these repeat audits: the re-audit assessment confirming the objectivity and independence of TBC Pay in 2018 is a good example of this practice.
The of the CAE and has also concluded that the activities of IA Committee was pleased to note that in 2018 there was a are undertaken with sufficient arms-length independence further improvement in the rate and speed of remediation from Management and are free from any interference of identified IA deficiencies.
in determining the scope of internal auditing, the performance of IAs work and communication of its results.
The Audit Committee is overseeing a project to move the Internal Audit function towards a more agile approach.
We believe that IA has not only established its independence We are seeking to use root cause analysis to develop from Management but feels properly empowered and more themed reports, prioritising the higher risk areas of motivated to do its job.
It is respected by Management and the Bank and responding even more rapidly to emerging of use to them, its value reflected in the latters proactive issues, undertaking special deep-dive investigations requests with sign off from the Audit Committee for their particularly arising from situations where the Bank may involvement in various projects and investigations.
have heightened vulnerability or has been the victim of fraud and ensuring that IA is able to identify systemic During 2018 the Audit Committee conducted an control vulnerabilities and to add more strategic value.
assessment of IAs function concluding that the Capitalising on new software tools, we will be shifting the department is suitably structured and proactively meets emphasis from heavily-documented audits in search of its assurance objectives.
We are in compliance with the findings to a more outcome-driven approach delivering vast majority of the best practice targets established by the right-sized audits, balancing value preservation assurance with value creation advisory.
We hope to apply the power of data to deliver intelligent audit.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 163 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In addition to its regular workload, there were a number CONTROL ENVIRONMENT of one-off projects commissioned by the Audit Committee A sound system of internal control contributes to from IA in 2018.
For example, we asked them to re-validate safeguarding the best interests of all stakeholders and identification reporting processes around capturing and the Companys assets and liabilities.
Management is disclosing related party lending and anti-money laundering responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate procedures within the Group, including the ultimate internal controls over the capturing, processing and destination of approved loans.
We also requested IA to reporting of financial information but the Audit Committee confirm the adherence of the Bank to its approved Risk has responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of these tolerances.
In addition to these assignments, IA conducted controls and for confirming that they are sufficiently robust special audits into a number of important areas some of to cope with changing economic conditions and continued them for the first time, notably TBC Insurance the newly strong growth in the Bank.
We evaluate Managements acquired and fast-expanding subsidiary of the Company identification of fraud risk and implementation of antiwhere some process were inherited from the previouslyfraud measures and also supervise investigation of any acquired Kopenbur company and TBC Leasing and also, alleged or suspected frauds brought to our attention.
We as noted, a follow-up review of TBC Pay to confirm process seek to establish the right tone at the top and to assess improvements had been completed after some frauds whether the Company is a high integrity organisation from were previously uncovered in this subsidiary.
The Board as a whole continuously monitors were also undertaken into the Banks Procurement, HR, the Banks internal control systems with Audit Committee E-Commerce, SWIFT security compliance and Treasury and RECC sharing a coordinated focus on controls relating functions.
to financial, compliance, operational resilience, cyber security and data integrity risks.
Towards the end of the year, we asked IA to undertake its first formal review of culture and behaviour within the Bank.
The Committee regularly reviews progress in this vital As non-executive directors of a company, it can at times be discipline and alerts the CEO, CFO, divisional heads and a challenge to remain cognisant of the prevailing culture at if necessary the full Board where it occasionally sees lower levels of an organisation.
It is at these levels of the intractable problems and insufficient commitment to organisation that the opportunity, incentives and pressures continuous process improvement.
The Audit Committee for staff to commit dishonest acts or to by-pass critical was pleased to note that in 2018 there was a further procedures and even to rationalise such behaviour, can improvement varying somewhat by division in the rate arise.
Therefore, the Audit Committee considers that such and speed of remediation of identified IA deficiencies, and a cultural audit is essential to monitoring behavioural and the Bank is implementing more methods for automating operational risks presented by the Banks most valuable procedures which reduce the risks of human error or asset, its human capital, and to ensuring that employees malpractice and also deliver cost-saving benefits.
live the ethical values espoused by the Company.
As of January 2019, the IA includes ethics-related evaluation In accordance with our mandate, we have reviewed the within every audit engagement.
The Board and Audit robustness of the Banks controls, working with our Committee of the Company have agreed that the RECC will External Auditors, our Operational Risk department and supervise the ongoing monitoring of behavioural standards Internal Audit.
In the opinion of the Committee, there is a as part of its formal ethics remit.
proper system and allocation of responsibilities for day to day monitoring of financial controls within the Group and no We discussed the international expansion plans of the significant systemic failings or weaknesses.
We have also Bank notably in Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan and, whilst considered the risk of executive override of controls, and these remain in formative stages, we are taking steps to discussed with PwC their assessment of this mandatory ensure that the high standards within the Bank in Georgia significant audit risk.
We ensure that the remuneration of are replicated across these countries some of which we senior and middle management is calibrated so that they are aware have a country-wide raised level of operational are not incentivised to take unhealthy short-term risks to risk.
Our CAE is already spending some time overseas generate personal rewards.
and will act as an observer on the Audit Committee of the bank that we are in the process, subject to licensing, of We note that the only non-standard representations establishing in Uzbekistan.
On a wider issue, we are aware requested from or provided to PwC in respect of the of the strains that international expansion can potentially management representation letter signed by the Groups place on the controls and finance team of the Group and CEO, CFO, CRO and Head of Corporate and Investment are taking steps to ensure that competent resources are in Banking, relate to the NBG inspection.
Also additional place to cope with the extra workload involved.
representations have been requested by PWC from the Chairman and deputy Chariman of the board.
Together with the RECC, we have also received regular updates from the Chief Compliance Officer on the implementation of the Banks compliance programme which we consider to be sufficiently robust.
164 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 We are in the process of instituting a new Internal Audit whistleblowing events to raise the level of attention and scoring system that sets clear thresholds on what level of breaches of the Groups behavioural code of conduct or failure is unacceptable and which processes demand zero have involved low-level disclosure of confidential customer failure rates.
The CEOs variable compensation is partly information: few have been vexatious and almost all have determined by his score for meeting agreed leadership been worthwhile alarms.
Most importantly, we believe metrics which include support for resolution of negative that our employees and customers have come to realise Internal Audit findings.
that speaking up is valued and taken seriously.
The Audit Committee works closely with the Remuneration Notwithstanding improved controls, the Audit Committee Committee, where we have a majority of overlapping last year was made aware of and supervised investigations members.
We are comfortable that the compensation into a number of fraud cases which in aggregate amounted policies and practices for top executives are appropriate for to approximately US$850,000 with net losses amounting to maintaining a robust control environment and consistent a smaller amount after insurance and recoveries.
As stated, the CEOs compensation of these losses related to fraudulent disbursements by is partly linked to a Leadership KPI which includes as one loan officers based on false documentation and controls of its key elements an Internal Audit Engagement factor have been further tightened in this area.
A quarter of and since May 2018 the Banks branch directors have also losses arose in TBC Pay.
After every noted fraud event had an operational risk mitigation KRI attached to their larger than US$20,000, Management conducts a full postremuneration.
mortem which is shared with the Audit Committee and often the full Board as well as the CEO and divisional head responsible in order that, where necessary, any lessons IT, CYBER-SECURITY AND DATA PROTECTION are learnt, so as to avoid any future repeat events.
The Audit Committee has directly discussed all larger frauds The Audit Committee has supervised an internal cyber with senior management and is confident that the CEO and health check and gap analysis and concluded that, whist his deputies have taken full ownership of the issues and there are areas for improvement with a plan to address rectified any vulnerabilities arising.
Our experience over these, the risk environment is satisfactory and that we the course of 2018 suggested that typically our processes have sufficient prevention, detection and containment were watertight but had not been fully followed due to practices in place.
In line with the adoption of General human error or deliberate malfeasance.
On each occasion, Data Protection Regulation GDPR from May 2018, the the Audit Committee was promptly notified in accordance Committee working with its Risk Committee counterpart with escalation procedures.
has taken measures, particularly in relation to its overseas customers and employees, to ensure that the Bank In 2018 the Committee liaised closely with the RECC to complies in full with GDPR.
We note that even historically undertake a deep-dive into Operational Risk structures there was very limited export of the Banks data outside its within the Bank, working with the new head of this non-EU operational markets.
One of the conclusions of this work was the need for a more streamlined approach to managing, The Bank has established some cyber-risk insurance investigating and reporting fraud risk events given some cover but is fully conscious that this area of insurance is historic dispersion of responsibilities in this regard.
evolving, only partial in protection and no substitute for having rigorous data policies in place.
We are anticipating As a matter of policy, the Audit Committee has sought this GDPR equivalent laws coming into force in Georgia and are year to prioritise oversight of all the Banks subsidiaries taking steps to be fully prepared for this.
Georgia has just with additional reporting to central functions, whilst not appointed a new data regulator, the Office of the Personal diminishing the authority of subsidiary executives.
We are Data Protection Inspector PDP, who we understand are rolling out best practice policies universally across the currently working on amendments to the local law in order Group and these are policed accordingly by Internal Audit.
to align it with the EUs GDPR.
Safeguarding of customer data remains a paramount concern for all of us.
In 2016 the Banks whistleblowing or anonymous hotline for staff and external entities went live, alerting the Bank The Groups Management continuously seeks to raise to any potentially unsatisfactory practices relating to cyber-security risk standards within the organisation customers, other third party entities and our employees.
requiring almost all employees to pass an IT security Arrangements are in place for proportionate and awareness test covering vital vulnerabilities such as independent investigation of all such cases and appropriate access control.
The Audit Committee as well as RECC reviews each reported case on an at least quarterly basis.
Our experience over 2018 has been that many of these cases have been minor in scale and nature, and typically related to regular customer complaints profiled as TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 165 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Following the IT governance review in 2017 at the behest of the NBG, in 2018 we commissioned a major American IT consulting company to undertake an IT governance maturity audit, in order to understand better the current level of alignment between business and IT and to identify any potential gaps and related improvement actions.
This looked, inter alia, into whether IT was managing risks correctly.
The conclusion of this study was encouraging.
A high level of awareness of the execution challenges in the IT change environment and confirmation that the Bank is receiving value from IT was found.
However, there remains scope for further IT governance improvement in achieving IT transformation goals, particularly in relation to leveraging big data and advanced analytics.
These improvements are being implemented.
166 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018
