RISK, ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS LETTER COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES The RECCs primary function is to assist the Board in its oversight of all matters related to the risk management and compliance of the Company and the Group as a whole.
The RECC is responsible for recommending the Groups risk appetite limits to the Board and monitoring the risk profile to make sure that it complies with the established limits.
It is also responsible for reviewing, assessing and recommending any actions for the Board to take regarding the Groups overall risk management strategy, as well as the risk management system and associated policies.
The RECC is also responsible for overseeing the Groups compliance activities to ensure that it complies with all applicable laws and regulations and maintains the highest standards of ethical behaviour.
The RECC supports fostering an ethical culture within the Group based on the Dear shareholders, principles of honesty, integrity, fairness and transparency.
I am pleased to present the Risk, Ethics and Compliance The RECCs terms of reference are available on the Groups Committee the RECC report for the Group.
Throughout 2018, the RECC continued to take a proactive COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND MEETINGS approach to risk management by closely monitoring and discussing the internal and external challenges the As of 2 April 2019, the RECC consists of four independent, Group faces.
Along with regular updates regarding the non-executive Directors: Nikoloz Enukidze Chairman, macroeconomic environment, the Groups risk profile, Nicholas Haag, Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia.
risk management practices and results, the Committee Biographies of the RECC members can be found on pages focused on several other issues, namely: 120 to124.
Eric Rajendra served as a member thoroughout 2018 until stepped down on 15 March 2019.
Important new regulation, including introduction of the net GRAPE General Risk Assessment Program buffer Ms Cicognani and Ms Kemularia were appointed to the and regulatory changes concerning the responsible Commitee in Q4 2018 after Stefano Marsaglia and Stephan lending standards, the details of which are given below Wilcke stepped down.
under section Regulatory update: Enhancing TBC Banks operational risk management: The RECC meets in person on a quarterly basis.
At each and meeting members review a thorough report on the quarters The review and monitoring of the results produced by risk management results as well as updates on compliance IFRS 9 models following TBC Banks successful transiand other areas within its remit.
The Chief Executive Officer, tion to IFRS 9 on 1st January 2018.
CRO, head of compliance and key members of the Groups risk and compliance teams normally attend the meetings.
In addition, the RECC proactively led the review and response Additional sessions are held remotely, if needed.
to the recent inspection by the NBG, as well as related actions by the Georgian Office of Public Prosecution, of certain Members attendance at the RECCs meetings during the transactions including TBC Banks founders, which took year, at the Company and the Bank levels, are set out in the place in 2007 and 2008.
Further details on these inspections Directors Governance statement on page 111. are outlined on page 68.
RECC ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 The report below summarises the RECCs activities for the year.
In 2018, the NBG introduced a number of important regulatory amendments, including net GRAPE buffer and regulations concerning responsible lending framework.
The RECC closely monitored these regulatory changes, reviewing the periodical regulatory updates and discussing Nikoloz Enukidze these changes, to assess the potential implications for the Chairman of the Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee Groups performance and processes, and to outline ways to 2 April 2019 manage these processes more effectively.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 133 RISK, ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Additionally, throughout the year the RECC was actively segments, products and economic sectors.
Additionally, the involved in the further enhancement of the Banks operational portfolio FX share and concentration levels were actively risk management.
"The RECC's monitoring of the IFRS 9 post implementation Throughout the year, the NBG introduced several initiatives process was also one of the key focus areas to ensure that concerning responsible lending, the details of which are TBC Bank complied with all aspects of the new standard, outlined under the section ""Regulatory update"" below."
The particularly that the provisioning methodology adequately RECC extensively revised each change as well as its impact captures the expected credit losses.
on TBC Banks portfolio growth and quality trends.
Moreover, the RECC led the internal review and response to Operational risk the recent inspection by the NBG and related actions by the Throughout the year, one of the key operational risk Georgian Office of Public Prosecution of certain transactions management focus areas was the Risk and Control Selfwhich took place in 2007 and 2008.
"Further details on these Assessment ""RCSA"" exercise."
Under the RCSA exercise, inspections are outlined on page 68.
TBC Banks top priority processes were reviewed and areas of improvement were identified.
Apart from the aforementioned activities, the RECC continued to concentrate on its key responsibilities of monitoring the The RECC was actively involved in reviewing the RSCA Groups risk management processes, promoting progress in exercise including risk and control assessment methodology, risk management tools and techniques, and implementing selection of the processes for RSCA scope, discussion of mitigation actions against prevailing risks.
findings as well as recommendations and the action plan proposed by the operational risk team.
Risk appetite The RECC received and reviewed the risk appetite compliance Financial risks reports at each of its quarterly meetings, during which the The RECC closely re-examined the Groups financial risk Committees members discussed the Groups risk profile and positions on a regular basis, and produced a report that respective outlook with the management.
included an assessment of TBC Banks risks associated with liquidity, FX, banking book interest rates and counterparties.
During the course of 2018, the RECC carried out a further As part of assessing the compliance with the approved risk review of the updates in risk appetite metrics and limits appetite limits, the Committee monitored TBC Banks liquidity proposed by the CRO.
Key updates made were in relation and funding ratios and the NBG's updated regulations to the capital adequacy metrics and they were driven by the regarding the reduction of interest rates on FX mandatory changes in regulatory capital framework.
reserves and the increase of FX mandatory reserves requirement.
The RECC reviewed a comprehensive report on Macroeconomic environment in Georgia the interbank portfolios performance within the counterparty The RECC continued to work closely with the Group's risk management framework and, in particular, the trade economic team with regards to the international, regional finance-related transactions.
The RECC received a number of comprehensive reports and periodic Capital management updates on macroeconomic developments.
It also analysed The RECC continued to revise the internal capital adequacy the Group's sensitivity to various scenarios, including assessment process and it monitored closely the compliance adverse developments in the economy and exchange rates, with all regulatory ratios under different macroeconomic as well as the mitigation actions that could be undertaken scenarios.
During the meetings, RECC also examined the to minimize the impact of such developments.
Throughout new initiatives introduced by the NBG during the reporting the year, the RECC paid more attention to the sectorial risk period and their impact, as well as the expected changes in assessment and the Groups exposure to specific sectors the minimum capital requirements.
For example, the RECC assessed the health of Georgias housing market and analysed the overall Throughout the year, the Bank actively worked on the capital sustainability of the credit growth within this market from optimisation exercise which led to significant capital savings.
In addition, new macro-financial The results of the process were presented and discussed initiatives introduced by the government and the central bank during the RECC's quarterly meetings.
In 2018, the Bank performed the second round of a regulatory Credit risk stress-testing exercise.
The RECC members extensively The RECC reviewed the performance of the Groups credit discussed the NBG stress test methodology and its impact on portfolio at each meeting during 2018.
The RECC was the Banks capital adequacy and non-performing loans ratios.
presented with a comprehensive report covering the structure Additionally, the most vulnerable sectors were identified and performance of the Groups portfolio across business 134 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 and analysed in details.
The main purpose of the regulatory the full version of the regulation about responsible lending stress-testing exercise is to define the net stress test capital was introduced on 1 January 2019 thereby replacing the buffer under the Pillar II framework.
May regulation and it defined income verification techniques, introduced caps on payment-to-income PTI and loan-to-value LTV ratios and the maximum maturity of Compliance retail loans: Stricter thresholds are applied to loans fideThroughout the year, the RECC approved the updates of several nominated in foreign currency.
The banks will no longer be policies for the Group, and closely scrutinised the Groups allowed to disburse loans without income verification and related parties list and transaction tracker for the purposes of the income verification techniques are currently being disthe UK Listing Rules.
Given the significant regulatory changes cussed between the banks and the regulator to determine during 2018 as described in Regulatory update section, appropriate income verification techniques, including anthe RECCs main attention was paid to the implementation alytical approaches: status of regulatory requirements throughout the Group.
the effective interest cap on loans was lowered on 1 SepAdditionally, the RECC discussed compliance and anti money tember 2018 from 100% to 50%.
laundering topics in details on each quarterly meeting.
Additionally, the NBG introduced a new initiative to facilitate NBG inspection related to past transactions further fide-dollarisation of portfolio.
The new regulation, in As reported in strategic report, the Bank was subject to an force from January 23rd 2019, increases the limit below which inspection by the NBG during late 2018 and into 2019, in loans cannot be issued in foreign currency from GEL 100,000 relation to certain transactions that the founders of the Bank to GEL 200,000. undertook in 2007 and 2008 see also pages 53 and 68.
The RECC was actively involved in the oversight of the inspection, and led the response of the directors to the NBG report, both IFRS 9 currently and in relation to future actions which might be 2018 marked the first year since the Group's transition to required to prevent any recurrence.
RECC also advised the IFRS 9.
The RECC actively reviewed and monitored the results Board on remedial actions to be taken in connection with produced by the IFRS 9 models to ensure that respective the NBG report.
In particular, RECC oversaw the directors outcomes adequately capture expected losses.
actions taken in relation to the situation, including reviewing documentation, challenging the founders, and coordinating THE COMMITTEES EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW plans and remedial actions in relation to corporate governance, current and future related party controls, and The Board and the RECC members conduct a review of controls over identifying and managing any potential conflicts the Committees effectiveness every year.
The aim is to of interest with regard to the Banks lending practices.
This assess the RECCs performance as per the international is complementary to the Banks agreed remedial actions standards of best practice in corporate governance.
In agreed with the NBG page 68.
2018, the RECC was found to be effective in overseeing the Groups risk management, compliance activities and ethical standards.
Regulatory update During the reporting period, the NBG introduced numerous initiatives, which the RECC examined to assess their impact LOOKING AHEAD TO 2019 on the Groups performance.
These initiatives include the Going forward, the RECC will continue to focus on its key following: responsibilities: assessing the quarterly risk results and net GRAPE buffer - in the beginning of 2018 the NBG fidecompliance with TBC Banks risk appetite, providing the fined the net GRAPE buffer for the Bank.
The net GRAPE sign-off on transactions with the largest exposures, and buffer is a pillar II capital add-on determined through the facilitating the progress in risk management tools and supervisory process for any material risks not covered by techniques.
The RECC will continue the close monitoring Pillar I and other Pillar II capital buffers defined under of the impact that recent and upcoming regulatory changes NBG capital adequacy framework.
The key findings of the may have on the Banks financial standing and respective NBG that were used to determine the appropriate level of implications for risk management processes.
In addition, buffer specifically for the Bank were extensively discussed close attention will be paid in overseeing TBC Banks by the RECC during its meeting: international expansion activities to ensure that the risks the interim regulation on responsible lending standards, are managed properly across the Group.
Moreover, the introduced in May 2018.
According to this regulation, the RECC will continue to focus on the proper management limits were set for the banks on loan portfolios with no inof risks that may arise from further digitalisation of TBC come verification at 25% and 15% of the regulatory capital Banks services.
for unsecured and collateralised loans respectively: TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 135
