Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Nomination Committee report Nomination Committee The primary objectives of the Committee are to On 20 April 2018, the Board welcomed two support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities Executive Directors to the Board.
Chris Carney to ensure that there are firstly, formal, rigorous was appointed Group Finance Director and and transparent processes in place for the brings with him considerable experience of appointment of new Directors to the Board financial, operational and risk management and the proposed appointees to senior around the Group.
Jennie Daly was appointed management positions, and secondly, effective, Group Operations Director and brings with her deliverable and well thought through succession a wealth of experience in the housebuilding planning and contingency planning processes in industry gained from roles which include place across the Group for all key positions.
strategic land oversight at Westbury plc and managing director of Harrow Estates Plc.
During 2018, the Committee oversaw a number of significant changes to the Board.
As reported Chris and Jennies appointments are both a in last years Annual Report, Gwyn Burr was result of the Committees medium term Board appointed to the Board as an independent succession planning activities over recent years.
Kevin Beeston NonExecutive Director on 1 February 2018 and These internal promotions to the Board Chair of the Nomination Committee brought with her over 25 years of executive evidence the work that the Committee has experience as well as a wealth of non executive done in recent years on succession planning expertise.
As planned and reported last year, processes and I am delighted to welcome both Dear Shareholder Rob Rowley stood down from the Board as Chris and Jennie to the Board.
Further details of I am pleased to be able to take this opportunity an Independent Non Executive Director as this can be found on page 92 of this report.
as Chair of the Nomination Committee to announced on 26 April 2018.
Mike Hussey also summarise the important ongoing objectives stood down from the Board on 19 July 2018 as Guidance issued by the Financial Reporting and responsibilities of the Committee: the work Council FRC is that Nomination Committees an Independent Non Executive Director after that has been carried out during 2018: and its seven years of distinguished service.
should generally look deeper into the Company plans for the coming year.
to identify future leaders for the business: adopt As already reported on pages 62 to 63, on a wider outlook in identifying potential Directors: The Nomination Committee performs a vital role 20 April 2018, Ryan Mangold stood down as and look further ahead than any immediate for the Company and this can be demonstrated Group Finance Director.
The Board is extremely requirement to replace an individual Director.
by the fact that in addition to myself, all of the grateful for Ryans long and valued contribution The Committee has addressed this through the Non Executive Directors are also members of to the Companys progress and stewardship further development of the Companys Talent this Committee.
over his seven years of service in this role.
Management Boards to identify future talent Further progressed the diversity and Nomination Committee Main objective inclusivity agenda across the business, The Committee is chaired by the Chair of the To ensure there shall be a formal, including partnering initiatives with Board and is composed of a majority of rigorous and transparent process for selected third parties.
Independent Non Executive Directors as the appointment and removal of Directors Monitored action to further deepen, where required by the Code.
Its members are set out to or from the Board, its Committees and to necessary, the overall strength and in the table below.
other senior roles and in conjunction with succession planning in the Finance function the Board to ensure effective diversity across the business.
improvements and succession planning Members processes across the Group.
Meetings 2019 objectives Committee members attended Kevin Beeston Chair 3 3 2018 performance To further progress the diversity and Kate Barker 3 3 inclusivity agenda across the business and Oversaw the selection and appointment of a Gwyn Burr 3 3 ensure the progress made is embedded two Executive Directors to the Board and within our business.
Angela Knight 3 3 the standing down of an Executive Director To continue to review and enhance succession Humphrey Singer 3 3 from the Board.
Mike Hussey 2 2 Oversaw the selection and appointment of c Rob Rowley 0 1 a new Non Executive Director to the Board.
Led further development of Board and a Appointed to the Committee on 1 February 2018 Board Committee succession planning.
b Stood down from the Board on 19 July 2018 Reviewed contingency and longer term c Stood down from the Board on 26 April 2018.
See succession planning for all senior roles explanation on page 80 across the business.
88 Nomination Committee report continued and ensure that associated training and Following the publication of the 2018 UK The Committees objectives, the strategy for development plans are in place, to identify Corporate Governance Code, the Committee delivering them, progress made towards them those executives with short and longer-term has taken the opportunity to conduct a during 2018 and targets and plans for 2019 are potential to be Directors and progress to other thorough review of our terms of reference and described in more detail in this Report.
levels of senior management, and to encourage has updated them to ensure that they are in line and assist their further development with this with the new Code.
The terms of reference can The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that the present and future aim.
The Committee has also focused be found on the Companys website at increasingly on the skills of individual Directors, www.
co. uk corporate composition of the Board and the Groups executive management is appropriate for the and of the Board as a whole, in assessing whether each has the necessary skill sets and delivery of the Groups strategy and that all The key priorities of the Committee relevant UK Corporate Governance Code the whether there are any particular skills gaps, remain the following: particularly in relation to the Companys Code requirements continue to be met.
To regularly review the Boards composition, medium term and longer-term strategic balance, diversity, skill sets, and individual direction and the Boards ability to drive it Directors time commitment.
More details are set out on pages 72 To regularly review our succession and and 92. contingency planning across the business, and ensure that there is a clear link to As mentioned on page 63, I joined the Board of individuals career development and Kevin Beeston Taylor Wimpey in July 2010 and I have enjoyed professional development.
Chair of the Nomination Committee my time immensely.
As part of our ongoing To drive the Companys diversity and Board succession planning reviews, and in inclusivity agenda across all levels of accordance with the requirements of the new ourbusiness.
Code, the Committee, led by Kate in her role as Senior Independent Director, will be putting the To ensure the Group continues to have wheels in motion to recruit my successor as the necessary level of Board and senior Chair of the Board during the course of management skills and leadership to this year.
The Committee welcomes the Hampton-Alexander In meeting its objectives, both the Committee Review which seeks to improve Board and and the Board take into account diversity senior leadership diversity across FTSE350 including gender.
We fully support the various companies.
Following the appointment of Government initiatives in this key area, Gwyn Burr and Jennie Daly noted earlier, includingthe Beyond One by 21 report the Company currentlyhas four women on andrecommendations launched in 2016 by its Board 44% and six in total across the Sir John Parker, which seek to increase combined Board and Group Management ethnicdiversity on UK boards.
Team 43% and is already compliant with the revisedtarget at both Board level and wider I can confirm that diversity and inclusivity executive positions.
I am delighted to report remains very much on the Taylor Wimpey that following recent Board changes in 2018, agenda with regular reporting now taking place Taylor Wimpey have been recognised in the including a specific annual update and Hampton-Alexander Review as the third best discussion.
Whilst we continue to make performer in the FTSE at that time and was the progress, we do of course recognise that only housebuilder in the top ten for female thereis still further work to be done in representation at a senior level.
order toachieve our wider diversity and inclusivity strategy.
The Company strongly supports the Governments initiative ongender pay gap reporting and the Committee has overseen the publication of the Companys second GenderPay Gap Report.
The Companys 2018 GenderPay Gap Report can be found on the Companys website www.
co. uk The Committee made good progress during 2018 and its achievements made during 2018 and its plans for 2019 are set out on page 87.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Committee purpose and responsibilities ENGAGE The Committee has procedures in place with regard to maintaining a formal, rigorous and The engagement of independent recruitment consultants who have no other transparent process for Board appointments, connection to the Company.
ensuring that appointments to the Board are made on merit and assessed against objective criteria.
The Committee guides the Board in regularly assessing whether there is an CONSIDER appropriate balance of expertise and skills on the Board and other diversity considerations.
The preparation of a long list of potential candidates which takes into account the The Committee noted and welcomed the 2011 outcome of the Committees latest review of the composition and skill sets of report from Lord Davies of Abersoch on the Board.
Women on Boards the Davies Report : the 2015 Report which raised the target from 25% to 33% by the end of 2020: and the Hampton-Alexander Review which extends the SELECT 33% target by 2020 to include the executives at Board level and those that report directly The selection of a short list of suitablecandidates meeting the Committeescriteria.
to the executive committee members for the Company this is the Group Management Team.
As reported in my letter on page 88, INTERVIEWS AND MEETINGS at the date of this report we are currently complying with these requirements.
Interviews and meetings with the Chair, Chief Executive, other Executive Directors, The Committee oversees on behalf of the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, and with each Non Executive Director.
Board, and advises the Board on, the identification, assessment and selection of candidates for appointment to the Board.
SELECT CANDIDATE TheCommittee has a formal, rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria.
A description of how appointments are typically made from outside of the Company to the TAKE UP REFERENCES Board is set out opposite.
The Nomination Committee also guides the Board in assessing from time to time whether the APPOINTMENT Board has the correct balance of expertise and in arranging orderly succession planning for appointments to the Board and in respect of INDUCTION senior management positions across the business.
This considers not only the immediate succession planning for Directors but also a deeper review into the Companys management structure to identify those with longer term potential to develop into future successors in the medium to long term.
TheCommittee also reviews Board composition in light of the Companys strategy, to ensure as far as possible that new appointments help support the drive to achieve its strategic objectives and required skill sets.
90 Nomination Committee report continued Committee activities during2018 As noted on page 87, the Committee met on three occasions during 2018 and the activities at each meeting were: April 2018 May 2018 Oct 2018 Oversaw the selection and appointment of Reviewed succession and contingency Received an update on Chris Carneys Chris Carney and Jennie Daly as Group planning progress and further plans for: and Jennie Dalys progress to date in their Finance Director and Group Operations new roles: The Board: Director respectively: Received an update on progress around The Non Executive Directors: Oversaw the leaving arrangements for Group succession planning and related Board Committees: RyanMangold: development plans: The Executive levels immediately below Oversaw the appointment of Ingrid Osborne Received an update on contingency planning the Board: and as Divisional Chair of the London and for key Executives below Board level: Other key roles within the business.
SouthEast Division: Developed a plan for succession to the Reviewed progress and plans for Considered the balance and composition position of Chair, also taking into account the developingtalent: of the Board.
revised 2018 Code requirement limiting Reviewed the Board composition.
service in that position to nine years: Agreed the key attributes to be sought in recruiting an additional Non Executive Director.
As highlighted in the Committees 2018 performance on page 87, a key focus of the Committees work during the year was on progressive succession planning at all senior levels of the Company with a view to identifying key prospects and tailoring training and development plans to allow them to demonstrate their potential for future progression.
As part of this process, management below Board level is provided withregular access to the Board, including the opportunity to attend Board meetings and otherBoard-related functions in order to give presentations on specialist topics, project workand the performance of specific regional businesses and Divisions.
This helps to provide valuable exposure to the Board for up and coming management as well as being extremely valuable for Board members in assessing the Companys strength in depth.
Prior to joining the Board, both Chris Carney and Jennie Daly regularly attended Board meetings by invitation to gain exposure to the Board.
The Committee meets formally at least twice a year, and otherwise as circumstances dictate.
The Committee met three times during 2018, with anadditional meeting being held in April to oversee the selection and appointment of Chris Carney and Jennie Daly to the Board.
The Committees principal agenda items throughout the year consisted of longer term succession planning, reviewing and approving the contingency plan for key members of staff, considering progress on diversity across the business and monitoring progress of the newly appointed Directors.
Wider succession planning and diversity also remained on the Board agenda regularly throughout the year.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 The Secretary provides regular briefings to the The Committee also reviews the time Information and professional Board on regulatory and governance matters commitments of each Director both prior to development which are included as part of his formal regular allappointments and periodically, so as to The Company has procedures whereby reporting to the Board, and are supplemented, ensure that all Directors can discharge their newly-appointed Directors including Non Executive as appropriate, by briefings from independent responsibilities effectively in line with the Directors receive a formal induction.
The Board also receives regular requirements of the Code.
training and continuing familiarisation with the briefings and updates on environmental, social Companys business, strategy, operations and governance ESG matters.
Succession and contingency including health and safety and systems, the planning principles underlying the discharge of their The ESG briefings allow the Board to assess the duties as Directors and wider issues relating to During the year, succession planning for people significant ESG risks to the Companys short and the housing sector.
For newly appointed at all levels of the organisation has continued to long term value and to identify any opportunities Independent Non Executive Directors the be a key area of focus for the Committee.
As that may arise to enhance value.
Details of ESG induction includes meetings with key executives part of this, both the Board and the Nomination risks and value-enhancement pursuits appear in and function heads from across the business, Committee have visibility of a wide range of the 2018 Sustainability Report which is available advisers and site visits.
For the newly appointed employees with leadership potential together on our website at www.
co. uk Executive Directors, the induction process with their individual development plans.
The corporate sustainability differed slightly and focused on governance, appointment of Chris Carney and Jennie Daly to shareholders views from the Companys the Board evidences the succession planning The Chair, Chief Executive and Secretary meet perspective and the Boards current areas of processes implemented by the Committee.
sufficiently in advance of each Board meeting in focus.
Further information on the induction that order to ensure action points from previous Gwyn Burr, Chris Carney and Jennie Daly Each Divisional Chair of the housing business meetings have been implemented and to chairs a divisional Talent Management Board received following their appointment to the prepare the agenda and matters to be covered Board during 2018 can be found on page 61.
TMB comprising senior executives of the at the next and at future Board and Committee Division together with HR representatives.
The agenda and The Board recognises the importance of Each TMB then makes recommendations to minutes for the Audit, Nomination and induction and training.
These programs for the Group Talent Board which is chaired by the Remuneration Committee meetings are Directors were reviewed during the year and Chief Executive.
These Boards regularly review agreed by the Secretary with the relevant areconsidered to remain appropriate.
succession planning and related development Committee Chair.
and training requirements across the UK Group.
All Directors visit Group operations on a regular Further actions to support succession planning Annual Board Evaluation basis, engaging with employees at all levels in include the development of career paths linked In line with the Code, an annual evaluation is order to foster and maintain an understanding to experience, exposure and education: an carried out of the Board and its individual of the business.
Board visits are arranged each assessment and development centre: and the Directors, which is  at least year to operations and at least one Board promotion of the Companys mentoring every third year.
meeting per annum takes place either in, or scheme.
We are also focusing upon recruiting at anearby location with representatives from, individuals from a wider range of backgrounds, Full details of how the appraisal for 2018 was a regional business over three days.
In 2018, experience and industries at all levels.
conducted: the actions taken and planned to theBoard visit, accompanied by the GMT, address the outcome of that 2018 evaluation: encompassed presentations on the Major During the year, the Committee considered in and details of further actions taken during 2018 detail short and long term succession planning Developments business: increasing use of to address any remaining matters that arose direct labour: product and placemaking: large for Directors and key executives, together with from the previous years appraisal for 2017 appropriate development plans.
The Group site strategy: building for the private rental and are each tabulated and explained in greater rent to buy markets: and on the performance of Management Team GMT regularly reviews the detail in the Corporate governance report on Companys succession plans and talent the South Thames business unit.
pages 80 to 81. pipelines, with further action to support these The Group Legal Director and Company areas continuing.
The Committee also Composition of the Board Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its considered contingency and longer term Committees and he attends all meetings.
It is succession planning for all senior roles, It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, Board policy that wherever possible a formal linked totalent development and targeted that proposed appointments to the Board, and agenda and reports are issued electronically to training programmes.
succession planning, are based on merit, and Directors in respect of all Board and Committee judged against objective criteria, whilst also meetings at least one week prior to the meeting, Contingency planning concerns the Companys having due regard to the benefits of diversity and the Boards preparedness for, and in order to allow sufficient time for detailed and inclusivity, including gender, age, ethnicity, review and consideration beforehand.
Formal responsiveness to, sudden and unexpected thought and experience.
Following recent loss or non-availability of a key Board member, minutes are prepared in respect of all Board changes to the Board during 2018, the Board and Committee meetings and are then or one or more key executives.
It involves the consists of nine Directors, four of whom are identification of suitable individuals within the circulated and submitted for approval at the women, representing 44% of the Board.
All Board papers are circulated Company who, either singly or in concert with Board is therefore compliant with the increased another, can quickly assume a key role and electronically and Board meetings have been target proposed by the Hampton-Alexander effectively paperless for several years, which provide effective support until the incumbent Review of 33% female representation by 2020. returns to work or, in appropriate cases, a has worked well and aided the overall efficiency of the wider Board process.
successor can be identified and appointed.
92 Nomination Committee report continued Diversity has continued to be a key item on the Board succession Employee diversity overall UK governance agenda during 2018, As reported on pages 62 and 63 there were a Diversity and inclusivity remained an area of which was highlighted in the new Code.
Within number of changes to the Board during 2018. clear focus throughout 2018 which will continue Taylor Wimpey, diversity has remained a key into 2019 and beyond.
A working party which priority for the Boards agenda and this will The composition and performance of the Board includes a variety of members from across the continue to be the case during 2019.
Although and its Committees were considered during the business has been overseeing progress towards the Board will continue to appoint on merit, year and it was concluded that the Board and achieving the Companys diversity and inclusivity werecognise that boards will generally perform each Committee will, in light of the changes strategy and implementing new initiatives so as better when they include top quality people outlined earlier, continue to function effectively.
to improve our performance in these key areas from a range of backgrounds and perspectives.
and comply with the Companys Diversity Policy Diversity will continue to be a key consideration The Committee believes that the balance of the as set out on pages 94 to 95.
Thestrategy when contemplating the composition and Board, consisting of a Chair, four Executive focuses on the challenges faced in developing refreshing of the Board and indeed our senior Directors and four Independent Non Executive an inclusive and diverse workforce with each and wider management teams.
Directors, recently augmented by Chris Carney regional business making an appropriate and Jennie Dalys wide-ranging additional skill commitment.
This includes working with The Company has put in place systems to sets, will continue to provide the right blend of specialist external bodies to maximise all measure and monitor diversity around the experience, expertise and challenge in order to opportunities, including: Group more effectively.
take the Company forward in line with its new st strategy whilst ensuring and maintaining good 21 century leadership: The data becoming available from these governance and best practice.
Thiswill, Ensuring that our leaders understand their improved systems has assisted in designing however, be kept under regular review in line role in developing a more diverse and and implementing a number of improvements to with the guidance set out in the Code.
inclusive culture and have the relevant training Group terms and conditions which we believe and support to achieve this: should facilitate access to, and success at, As mentioned earlier, the Committee has noted Remaining an employer of choice: work for all, such as the following: the requirement in the July 2018 updating of the Ensuring that our working environment, Code that a Chair of the Board should not polices, procedures and development and A review of Gender Pay.
At Taylor Wimpey normally serve for longer than nine years, progression opportunities, support greater we are committed to creating a diverse subject to a limited extension to facilitate diversity and inclusivity: and inclusive place to work.
Our fair and effective succession planning, and will be taking transparent approach to recruitment and Expanding our reach: steps during 2019 to address this requirement.
our people is one of the defining factors in Developing broader recruitment channels, Taylor Wimpeys culture and future understanding and embracing the diversity of At the Annual General Meeting of the Company workforce.
Embracing diversity enables our customers and workplace, and improving to be held on 25 April 2019, all Directors will Taylor Wimpey to succeed in a competitive our engagement with them.
again be subject to re-election or, in the case of market.
We have implemented a Diversity Chris Carney and Jennie Daly, to election, by and Inclusivity Strategy which focuses on By embracing diversity and inclusivity the Board shareholders in accordance with the Code.
gender equality as well as other key believes the Company will better understand Biographical details of each Director can be promoting workforce policies that highlight how peoples differences and similarities can be found on pages 58 to 59. positive approaches to employee diversity.
utilised for the benefit of not only the Company Our action plan that supports gender but most importantly also for individuals, the equality sets out measures to challenge the communities that we work within, society as a traditionally male dominated culture of the whole, and our customers.
Having a diverse construction and home buildingindustries.
workforce will improve the Companys ability to become a customer-centric business.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Implementing a flexible working policy in our The Group has progressed work with the Royal With regard to gender, as at 31 December 2018 Southern Counties regional business.
As a National Institute for the Blind RNIB to audit the diagrams below show the number of result of the initial trial a number of further the Companys website for ease of access for women representing each group.
businesses have also introduced revised visually impaired users and make any flexible working arrangements which have necessary changes.
During 2018 we engaged with the Disability Built on the success of the Young Persons Forum with a view to raising awareness of the Forum in our West Scotland regional challenges facing people with disabilities.
This business and rolled out further forums across will also result in audits of all business units with the business.
These forums give young a view to creating action plans and allowing us members of the business a platform to to become Disability Confident.
We have discuss business-related issues that are worked with an external partner to undertake a important.
detailed review of accessibility for disabled Gained exposure for the business and the people, whether employees: customers: or work of the young persons forum at the visitors: to our offices: sites: sales centres: young panel session at The Herald and and show homes around the UK.
The report Genalytics Diversity Conference in May.
will be analysed and any appropriate recommendations implemented during 2019.
Gender diversity Women across the Group account for 31% of the workforce plc Board 31% Female 44% 2017: 32% Male 56% Percentage of new starters withthe Group during Group Management Team 2018 that are women Executive Board ofTaylor Wimpey UK Limited Female 30% 26% Male 70% 2017: 28% While we continue to make reasonable overall progress and are committed to doing Regional Managing Directors so, we of course recognise that this is a journey and we still have more work to do in Female 8% order to fulfil our overall diversity ambitions and, as stated on page 81, it is a priority for Male 92% 2019 to achieve further progress in this area.
94 Nomination Committee report continued Progress of our diversity policy The Companys plans and progress in implementing its diversity policy, benchmarked against appropriate targets, are set out below.
Progress is measured and monitored by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
The Company is also committed to ensuring that our people are free from any direct or indirect discrimination, harassment, bullying or any other form of victimisation.
Our grievance and harassment policies ensure that any reported incidents are investigated.
In addition, our whistleblowing policy encourages employees to speak up, including through an independent Safecall telephone facility, against any inappropriate practices or behaviour and we regularly publicise the policy to all staff and workers on site.
Diversity policy Strategy Progress We will examine our culture and Our Working Party, the Taylor Wimpey UK Diversity & Inclusivity Committee the Taylor Wimpey operates in diverse practices to determine what further Committee, has been expanded to fully incorporate our previous BAME Working communities.
We believe that actions can be taken to improve Group.
This means we now have full representation across all of our UK Divisions, with embracing this diversity will enable diversity and inclusion within every regional business having a link to the Committee via their nominated champions.
us to succeed through a workforce Taylor Wimpey.
The Committee meets every quarter with clear objectives and action plans now in that is inclusive, creative and place for 2019 which will focus on achieving our Diversity and Inclusion agenda.
Diversity covers many strategy and associated workstreams are designed to move us forward as a diverse aspects.
We have defined diversity and inclusive employer with particular emphasis on gender and BAME this year.
to mean that we actively embrace The three key objectives stated within TWs Diversity and Inclusion Strategy are: the business and local st 21 Century Leadership communities in which we operate Employer of Choice and will strive to reflect their Expand our Reach richness and character to include During 2018 we engaged with The Disability Forum with a view to raising awareness such aspects as gender, race, of the challenges facing people with disabilities.
This will also result in audits of all disability and religion but also business units with a view to creating action plans and allowing us to become diversity of thought, background Disability Confident.
The committee has also engaged with the EY Foundation.
EY Foundations aim is to reduce the barriers that young people from all backgrounds face when trying to find employment.
The Chair of the Committee and the Head of Human Resource Strategy continue to drive the Diversity and Inclusion agenda and will provide updates on progress on our plans and specific initiatives to our Divisional Chairs, Divisional Managing Directors and Managing Directors.
This ensures strong two way communication and strengthens the commitment to Diversity and Inclusion from the leaders of our business.
We will identify people management We are proud of our involvement with the Leonard Cheshire Disability Change 100 Managing diversity is about valuing practices that assist a diverse programme which we are committed to continuing to support.
everyone as an individual valuing workforce to achieve their full potential.
people as our employees, In 2018 we increased the number of people employed with a disability to 43, We will use our Community compared to 24 in 2017.
We were also very proud when one of our Change 100 customers and clients.
People Engagement Programme to interns successfully applied for our Graduate programme and commenced on the have different needs, values and heighten awareness of personal programme in September 2018. beliefs.
Our people management interaction and valuing individuals.
We have continued to promote our Employer of Choice and diversity agenda through practice demands that We will increase the opportunities numerous publications and recently participated in the Annual Diversity Awards that employment propositions are both for young people to join the were sponsored by The Bank of Scotland, Glasgow Herald, and Genalytics.
At the consistently fair but also flexible Company and will promote award ceremony our West Scotland regional business was nominated for the Diversity and inclusive in ways that assist continuous personal development.
Star Performer and Recruitment of Talent and the Youth Employment awards.
They our people while supporting our went on to win the Diversity Star Performer award.
Taylor Wimpey are also documented in the Hampton-Alexander Review an independent review body which aims to increase the number of women on UK boards.
We are recognised as a top ten performer amongst the FTSE100 employers for the number of females on boards.
During 2018 we continued with the roll out of the Young Persons Forums across our business units.
These forums ensure that our young people are fully engaged with the business, creating strong networks that will bring huge benefits to both the individuals and wider business.
This ensures that young people have a strong voice within Taylor Wimpey.
The principles and benefits of Flexible Working were continually promoted during 2018.
This created some fantastic success stories around the business.
We now intend to further endorse this initiative which should be accessible for all, and will be launching our Agile Working Campaign in the coming months.
The Committee is planning to launch a Career Returners programme so that we can harness the skills and talent of females and males who have been out of work for an extended period but are now ready to return to the work environment.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Diversity policy Strategy Progress We will ensure that all managers In 2018, we recruited 197 site apprentices, 53 management apprentices and 27 graduates.
We believe that everyone should involved in recruitment and selection have the right to equal access During 2018, we updated the diversity and inclusion data we hold on our employees receive training that incorporates to employment and, when in our in the system.
This was always an activity planned 18 months into the delivery of our the areas of diversity and Diversity and Inclusion action plan, as we continue to raise awareness, and embed a employ, to equal pay and access promotingequality.
more diverse and inclusive culture.
to training and career development.
We will extend our recruitment We continued to partner with a number of specific diversity partners in 2018 with sources in order to attract a more the objective of driving the attraction and development of a more diverse and diverse range of applicants.
The Companys new strategy was launched during 2018 with clear objectives around Diversity and Inclusion.
This initial launch included open sessions chaired by Pete Redfern and other main Board members with groups of employees representing all areas of the business.
These sessions were designed to allow all voices to be heard and then influence how we achieve our strategic goals.
Diversity and Inclusion is also discussed as part of the talent and succession reviews which are completed by all business units twice a year.
These reviews are cascaded upwards, culminating in business-wide reviews by the Divisional Chairs with the Chief Executive and Group HR Director.
In 2018 a full review of all Taylor Wimpey procedures, policies and website began.
This will be viewed through a Diversity and Inclusion lens.
This review will be completed during2019.
We are committed to ensuring We will encourage our people to A specific focus of the Companys whistleblowing campaign is on diversity, speak out and report any direct or encouraging employees to speak up against any inappropriate practices or behaviour.
that our people are free from any indirect discrimination, harassment direct or indirect discrimination, Our grievance policy ensures that any reports of harassment or bullying are or bullying.
We will act promptly in investigated and acted upon.
We will addressing any inappropriate not tolerate any behaviour that behaviour or practice.
We acknowledge that we must Diversity will be promoted Diversity is a core message within our strategy: a main item at our Executive and from the highest level and we will Regional Management meetings: and is a standing agenda item at GMT meetings.
continue to promote diversity in ensure that our people understand order to create an organisation that In order to support each employee to maximise their performance and achieve their the benefits of having a diverse and own personal goals we have designed a Cultural Principles framework where we attracts, supports and promotes inclusive workforce.
describe the behaviours and attitudes we believe are required for effective performance the broadest range of talent.
in order to deliver our vision, mission and values.
Encouraging and embracing diversity Establishing an organisational is an integral part of our philosophy.
culture with diversity as a core value The Careers section of our website includes a dedicated Diversity and Inclusion section will enable individuals to reach their highlighting our focus on this area.
full potential and provide the best During 2018 the Proud campaign was launched and completed across all of the UK service to our customers.
This involved creating videos of employees and their stories which made employees proud to work for Taylor Wimpey.
Feedback on the campaign was incredibly positive and created the basis for an Engagement Strategy for use both internally and externally which will identify the benefits of a career within Taylor Wimpey as well as our success and desire to improve as a diverse and inclusive employer.
We have built on the success of the female talent forum.
Regular Female Talent dinners and events were held throughout 2018 with measurable benefits identified.
We published our updated gender pay gap data on 4 March 2019 and it can be viewed on our website at www.
