60 Corporate governance Governance highlights for 2018 Fully met all of the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code applying to the Company for 2018 and a substantial proportion of the July 2018 update of the Code which applies to the Company from 1 January 2019.
Fully met all of the requirements set out in the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Made good progress towards achieving our strategy for improving diversity and inclusivity at all levels throughout the Groups businesses.
Conducted a comprehensive  Board Evaluation exercise.
Further developed and enhanced the Companys succession and contingency planning processes across the Group.
Took action to increase female representation in senior roles highlighted in our Gender Pay Gap Report which appeared on our website during 2018.
Further deepened processes and procedures across the business and its supply chain in compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and prepared our third annual statement which appears on our website.
Published the Companys first statutory report of payment terms during 2018.
Kevin Beeston, Chair Good governance is at the heart of what we do Code which applies to companies with effect bodies with whom we are always very pleased Dear Shareholder from 1 January 2019.
The Board recognises the to engage.
We very much appreciate their In my capacity as Chair of the Board, I am very importance of considering the Companys constructive and helpful approach pleased to again have this opportunity to make responsibilities and duties to both its and feedback.
a personal statement on the Companys shareholders and its broader stakeholder group approach to corporate governance.
and this has been part of our culture and Culture, values and ethics decision making process for many years.
The The Board strongly believes that good Firstly, I would like to emphasise again that the Directors duties under s. 172 of the Companies governance should be focused not only on how Board continues to take corporate governance Act 2006 help to underpin the good governance the Board itself operates effectively but also, very seriously and has been able to which is at the heart of what we do.
Details of and very importantly, on the culture within which demonstrate this over many years with full how the Board takes account of shareholder all of our businesses and employees operate compliance with the UK Corporate Governance and wider stakeholder interests in its strategic and conduct themselves on a day to day basis.
The requirements of the planning and decision making processes are The culture, values and ethics set out in the Code, highlighting the changes introduced by set out on page 69 and 76-79.
Chief Executives Letter on page 5 are set by the July 2018 update of the Code, are the Board and then led in our operations by the summarised on page 66, where we have We receive regular briefings and updates on Chief Executive and the rest of our Executive included a signpost directing you to the relevant corporate governance at our Board and and senior management teams.
The principles page setting out in detail how the Company has Committee meetings and this report on of good governance are embedded throughout complied with the various provisions of the corporate governance aims to set out and Taylor Wimpey and, by way of example, Code.
Where possible, the Company has explain in clear terms the governance-related manifest themselves in a number of different consistently sought to comply with planned processes and procedures that are in place at ways, including the following: improvements and revisions to the Code, and TaylorWimpey and which we believe are with wider governance initiatives, often in essential for the delivery of the long term An absolute and non-negotiable requirement advance of their formal application to our success of the Company.
It is these processes to ensure the health and safety of our reporting years.
This proactive approach is that ensure we comply with all applicable laws employees, customers, subcontractors, demonstrated by the establishment during 2017 and regulations as well as, of course, meeting suppliers and visitors to our offices and of our National Employee Forum, ahead of the the requirements of our relevant stakeholders, developments.
Governments employee voice initiative and including shareholders and their representative which formed part of the 2018 version of the Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 The requirement to observe good business practice, including abiding by all applicable New skills on the board laws and regulations that relate to our business.
The provision of mandatory training to all of A series of meetings with the Divisional our businesses on key legislation and Chairs or the operating divisions of the regulations relating to our areas of operation.
Group plus a meeting with the Divisional Our Group-wide Operating Framework Managing Director for Central and control document setting out delegated East London.
During each of these, authority limits.
the strategy: operating and financial performance: budget and forecasts: A system of controls and checks human resourcing, diversity and talent underpinned by a rigorous Internal Audit development progress and plans: Department and in turn overseen by the Audit challenges: and medium term plans: Committee.
Gwyn Burr, Independent Non for the business area were discussed.
Regular and embedded risk assessment and Executive Director A series of meetings with Heads of key monitoring processes.
Please see pages Departments including Health, Safety and 42-51.
Gwyn Burr, as an experienced Environmental: Internal Audit: Customer Encouraging and investigating any NonExecutive Director, received an Services: and HR: during which Groupdisclosures made either directly or through an induction post-appointment that focused on wide progress on initiatives: challenges: independent whistleblowing hotline.
Please the culture, operational structure and key and plans for the future, were discussed.
see page 75. challenges of Taylor Wimpey.
Visits to a selection of current development sites located in two of the Governance developments during Accordingly, her induction comprised: operating Divisions, incorporating the period discussions with Divisional, Regional and An introductory meeting with the There were a number of significant corporate Site Management on operational, Chair to discuss Board process and governance developments during 2018. financial, supplier and resourcing issues the Groups culture: and local initiatives to address them.
Perhaps the most important of these was the publication in July of an updated version of the Code and the associated Guidance on Board Effectiveness.
These gave effect to the Governments proposals for corporate governance reforms in certain key areas, on which we reported in last years Annual Report and in respect of which the Company has already taken action to address some of these areas, as set out below: Requiring annual reporting and narrative around CEO pay relative to the workforce.
Demonstrating how the Directors met the requirement of s. 172 of the Companies Act Accordingly, their induction comprised: Chris Carney, Group Finance as I referred to earlier, namely, for each of Director & Jennie Daly, Group One to one meetings with the Chair, them to promote the success of the Operations Director Chief Executive and Secretary covering Company for its members whilst also having Chris Carney and Jennie Daly, as experienced Board process: corporate governance regard to long-term success: a broader range executives of the Group, received an requirements: shareholder views from the of other stakeholders interests including induction based on providing a greater Companys perspective: and the Boards employees, shareholders, customers, insight into the wider responsibilities of a current key areas of focus: suppliers and the wider communities in which listed company director.
our business operates : the impact on the A meeting with the Groups principal environment: and maintaining high standards external legal adviser, Slaughter and of ethics.
May, on wider legal and regulatory responsibilities: and Strengthening the voice of employees at Board level and I have also already A meeting with one of the Groups mentioned our National Employee Forum.
stockbrokers to receive a briefing on Please see pages 63, 69, 78-79 and market and shareholder views from an 120-121, particularly the case study on external perspective.
In addition, Chris also met with Deloitte as An increasing focus on the culture of the part of his induction.
Further requirements around Board composition and succession planning at Board level.
Wider recommendations to promote good corporate governance, particularly around Executive pay.
62 Corporate governance continued The Board welcomes these changes and I Other governance developments during the Jennie Daly was appointed as Group explain later in this report how the Company period included the issue of revised guidelines Operations Director having held a number of has responded to these changes to the Code.
setting out what key shareholder advisory roles with Taylor Wimpey since joining the bodies expect to see in relation to remuneration Group in 2014 as UK Planning Director, before The Code also made a change on the length of addressed further in the Remuneration Report becoming UK Land Director and then Group the Chairs tenure such that going forward, a on page 96 : and from an environmental, social Operations Director in 2017.
Before joining Chair should not remain in post for more than and governance ESG perspective.
With regard Taylor Wimpey, Jennie gained a wealth of nine years from when they were first appointed to the latter, I am pleased to report that the experience from various roles in the to the Board.
This period may be extended in latest update of the Institutional Shareholder housebuilding industry including strategic land order to facilitate effective succession planning.
Services ISS Governance Quality Score for the oversight at Westbury plc and managing Companys ESG performance indicates that the director of Harrow Estates Plc.
As Group The governance briefings to the Board covered, Company is level 1 indicating lowest risk Operations Director, Jennie oversees our land, in addition to the briefing on the new Code, all assessment for each of the Environment and planning, design and technical, production of the key legal and regulatory governance Social categories: and for the Governance and supply chain functions, in addition to changes introduced during 2018, including the categories relating to compensation: managing the Taylor Wimpey Logistics following requirements: shareholder rights: audit and risk oversight.
Jennie also chairs the Group Operation Team meetings.
I am very pleased to to include CEO pay ratios effective for next The Board reviewed and welcomed all of these welcome Jennie to the Board and to support years reporting but introduced early by the initiatives which are designed to help provide Resolution 12 at the 2019 AGM proposing her Company on page 113 : shareholders and all of our stakeholders with election by shareholders, in respect of which to disclose the impact on potential outcomes increased assurance that the Company is being more details appear on page181.
from LTIP awards the Performance Share managed with their best interests firmly in mind, Plan or PSP in the event of significant up to whilst also taking account of other relevant Kate Barker was appointed as the Senior 50% appreciation in the Companys share interests and the impact of the Companys Independent Director on 26 April 2018. price effective for next years reporting but activities on the wider community.
All of this is Kate has been a Non Executive Director of the introduced early by the Company in the of course very important to our industry.
Company since April 2011 and brings to the scenario charts in the Remuneration Report role a wide range of experience, both of the on page 103 : Company and of wider corporate, economic Appointments and succession and stewardship principles.
More details of to include within the annual statement of the The Nomination Committee oversaw a her experience appear in her biography on Remuneration Committee Chair a summary considerable refreshing of the Board page59.
of any discretion exercised during the period during 2018: see page 99.
Humphrey Singer was appointed Chair of the As reported in last years Report, on Audit Committee on 10 January 2018 and Key amongst these developments is the 1 February 2018, we were delighted to appoint succeeded Rob Rowley in that role.
Humphrey requirement to clearly explain how the Board Gwyn Burr as an Independent Non Executive brings wide experience of financial reporting led an appropriate level of engagement with Director, bringing over 25 years executive and compliance to the role, including from stakeholders in order to meet its duty under experience, principally in customer service in the his period of service on the Audit Committee s. 172 of the Companies Act to promote the retail sector.
More details of her experience and prior to this appointment.
More details of success of the Company whilst taking into the additional skill sets she brings to the Board his experience appear in his biography on account the interests of other stakeholders.
appear in her biography on page 59. page59.
Related to this, the Board is aware of the reporting obligations under The Companies On 20 April 2018, we were also delighted to As reported in last years Annual Report, Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018. appoint members of our Group Management Rob Rowley stood down as an Independent Details of this engagement during 2018 and into Team to the Board.
Chris Carney was Non Executive Director and as the Senior 2019, together with our actions taken in appointed Group Finance Director, after gaining Independent Director on 26 April 2018 after response, are set out on pages 76-79 and in considerable financial and operational over eight years service on the Board and its the Board Activities section on page 69. management experience from around the Committees, and particularly as Chair of the Group.
Chris is a Chartered Accountant and Audit Committee.
We were pleased to be able The Government is also seeking to encourage has worked in both private practice and for to pass on our grateful thanks to Rob in last companies to increase productivity, including Associated British Foods plc, before joining years Annual Report.
through greater recognition of the importance of Taylor Wimpey in 2006.
I am very pleased to human capital and a clearer focus on training welcome Chris to the Board and to support Ryan Mangold stood down as Group Finance and development.
Details of our initiatives in this Resolution 11 at the 2019 Annual General Director on 20 April 2018.
On behalf of the regard appear on pages 6, 20, 22, 25 and 78.
Meeting AGM proposing his election by Board, I would like to express our sincere shareholders, in respect of which more details gratitude to Ryan for his long and valued appear on page 181. contribution to the Companys progress and stewardship over the seven years of his service as Group Finance Director and previous to that, as Group Financial Controller.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 As mentioned in my Chairs Statement, Mike Diversity Engagement with employees Hussey stood down as an Independent Non Diversity and inclusivity has continued to be a Last year I reported on the creation and early Executive Director on 19 July 2018.
On behalf key item on the overall UK governance agenda meetings of the National Employee Forum, of the Board, I would also like to express our during 2018.
The Company has achieved the which I have already referred to earlier.
This year gratitude to Mike for his long and valued target introduced by Lord Davies of Abersochs I am delighted to have witnessed at first hand contribution to the Companys progress and review for the proportion of women on each the constructive and informed debate at its stewardship over almost seven years of his FTSE 350 companys board to increase from meetings, which is reported in more detail on service on the Board and as a member of the the current 25% target to 33% by 2020, with pages 69, 78-79 and 120-121, particularly the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Mikes the Boards proportion of women members case study on page 79. insight on development and in particular with having reached 44% four out of nine.
The regard to the London market was invaluable.
Board also welcomed the Hampton-Alexander Conclusion Review which proposes to increase Board and We wish both Ryan and Mike all the very best I believe that your Board remains effective and senior leadership diversity.
I am pleased to be for the future.
I am confident that the able to report that the proportion of women Board has the right balance of skills, expertise increased during 2018 and to date, on both the The Nomination Committee regularly reviews and professionalism to continue to deliver Board from 33% to 44% and on the direct the composition, balance, skills and experience strong governance whilst allowing the Executive reports to the Board the Group Management of the Board and concluded that, following the Directors to implement and deliver the strategy Team GMT from 30% to 33%.
More details of changes set out above, that the balance and as set out on pages 12-26 within the strong how these improvements were achieved and composition of the Board will continue to culture that we have worked hard to establish.
the Boards plans for further improvements in provide the right blend of experience, expertise Whilst I am also pleased with the Boards diversity and inclusivity, are set out on pages and challenge to ensure good governance so activity and approach with regard to corporate 92-95.
The Board very much welcomes these as to enable the Company to successfully governance, we continually look for ways to increased targets which are designed to give implement its strategy.
During the year, learn and improve.
greater impetus to the progress of enhanced excluding the Chair, in accordance with the gender diversity on PLC boards.
This, together Code at least half of the Board were As ever, I very much look forward to meeting with other aspects of diversity, such as the Independent Non Executive Directors.
with shareholders at the AGM on 25 April 2019 latest proposals from the FRC to require greater and, as always, along with all of your Directors consideration of ethnic and social diversity I joined the Board of Taylor Wimpey in July who will all be present at the AGM, remain when planning Board appointments, is very 2010 and I have enjoyed my time immensely.
available to answer or respond to your questions, much in the thinking of the Nomination As part of our ongoing Board succession concerns and suggestions at any time.
Committee when reviewing the balance and planning reviews and in accordance with the composition of the Board and the structuring of requirements of the new Code, the Nomination talent development initiatives across the Group.
Committee will be putting the wheels in motion to recruit my successor during the course of I am delighted to be able to report that at the this year.
launch on 13 November 2018 of the HamptonAlexander Review into speeding up the pace of Board evaluation progress on increasing diversity on Boards and Kevin Beeston It is a key and important requirement of good the next two leadership levels immediately Chair governance that an annual evaluation is carried below the Board, the Company was the third out to ensure that the Board, its Committees best performer in the FTSE at that time: was the and each Director operates and performs only housebuilder in the top ten: and was effectively.
The Code requires that the amongst those commended for the progress evaluation is  at least every made to date.
three years, and since the evaluation for 2017 was  by Manchester Square The Company fully recognises the importance Partners, as reported in last years Annual of diversity and its policy is to appoint or promote, Report, the annual evaluation for 2018 was as appropriate, the best person for the role in .
The outcome of the question without taking account of factors such evaluation was very positive and full details of as educational or professional backgrounds the evaluation methodology and its outcome save as appropriate for the position: age: are set out on pages 80-81. gender: ethnicity: or disability.
The objective of this policy is to ensure that diversity is built into the Companys appointment and promotion process and that only relevant factors are taken into account when considering such matters.
The policy has been implemented through training sessions on unconscious bias for management teams throughout the Companys business and its head office functions.
Progress to date in this area is set out on pages 94-95.
64 Corporate governance continued Role of the Directors Whilst all Directors share collective responsibility for the activities of the Board, some Directors roles have been defined in more detail as Governance considerations have developed over time, as follows: Chair Ensuring high standards of corporate Encouraging constructive challenge Agreeing the Chief Executives personal governance and setting the cultural tone and facilitating effective communication objectives from the top between Directors Ensuring there is effective two-way Building a well-balanced and highly Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board and communication and debate with shareholders effectiveBoard enabling an annual review of its effectiveness Maintaining an appropriate balance between Chairing Board meetings and setting Engaging individually with Directors as required the interests of stakeholders Boardagendas Ensuring appropriate induction and Promoting effective Board relationships development programmes for individualDirectors Chief Executive Developing and implementing Group strategy Regularly reviewing the organisational Maintaining relationships with investors and structure: developing the Executive Team: advising the Board accordingly Recommending the strategic plan and and planning for succession related annual budget Setting the culture at the top, particularly Ensuring the Chair and the Board with regard to compliance and sustainability Ensuring coherent leadership of the Group are kept advised and updated regarding Day to day running of the business Managing the Groups risk profile and key matters establishing effective internal controls Group Finance Director Operational responsibility for managing the Overseeing the information technology and In conjunction with the Group Management Companys financial affairs, including pension departments Team, overseeing the Companys risk profile treasury and tax matters Group Operations Director Operational responsibility for managing the Overseeing the commercial, supply chain In conjunction with the Group Management Companys development process, from land and logistics support for operations Team, overseeing the Companys risk profile acquisition, through planning applications, design and production, to sale of the completed product and customer service matters Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Advising the Board on matters of corporate Providing support to the Chair and Keeping abreast of shareholders views governance, compliance and on legal issues NonExecutive Directors Overseeing the Company Secretariat and Responsible for all legal and compliance Ensuring effective support to the Board the Legal Department matters relating to the Group andits meetings and agendas to enable efficient process Senior Independent Director Acting as a sounding-board for the Chair Acting as an intermediary for other Directors, Leading the search for a new Chair, when on Board-related matters when necessary necessary Chairing meetings in the absence of Leading the evaluation of the Chairs Being available to shareholders who theChair performance wish to discuss matters which cannot be resolved otherwise Non Executive Directors Providing effective and constructive Serving on Board committees challenge to management Providing advice to management and Assisting in development and approval sharing their experience and wisdom ofstrategy Keeping abreast of shareholders views Read more about individual Directors skill sets on page 72.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 processes in place for approving transactions necessary financial and human resources are in The Board and its Committees and other matters that may require approval in place for the Company to meet its objectives: As at the date of this Report, the Board consists between Board meetings.
of nine Directors, namely: the Chair, four Executive Directors and four Independent Directors make every effort to attend all Board and Company culture NonExecutive Directors.
Their names, applicable Committee meetings, as strongly responsibilities and other details appear on A healthy culture is extremely important and the evidenced by the exceptionally strong attendance pages 58 to 59, 64 and 72.
Board fully agrees with the FRC that it both records over many years.
Where, exceptionally, a protects and generates value and that it Director is unable to attend a meeting, it is Board The role of the Independent Non Executive should be the subject of a continuous focus policy that the Chair and or the Group Legal Directors is to offer advice and guidance to the rather than wait for a crisis.
The Board is Director and Company Secretary the Secretary Executive Directors, using their wide experience responsible for the Companys culture and for will, as soon as possible, brief the Director fully on in business and from their diverse backgrounds, defining and setting the Companys values and the business transacted at the meeting and on details of which are set out in their biographies standards from the top.
Culture is established any decisions that have been taken.
In addition, on pages 58 to 59 and 185 to 186 and in the by leadership and by example but this also the views of the Director are sought ahead of the Board diversity analysis on pages 58 to 59. needs to be underpinned by clear policies and meeting and conveyed to those attending by the They also provide a constructive challenge, codes of conduct which ensure that the Chair and or the Secretary as appropriate.
monitoring the overall direction and strategy of Companys obligations to its shareholders and Details of the attendance of each Director at the Company: scrutinising the performance of other stakeholders are clearly understood and Board and Committee meetings are set out in the the Executive Directors: and satisfying met, as described in more detail on page 69. table below and on pages 82, 87 and 97. themselves as to the integrity of the financial The Board is led in these respects by the Chair, information made available both to the Board who ensures the Board operates correctly, In addition, and in line with the Code, the Chair and to the Companys shareholders.
The Non setting its culture and, by extension, that of the and the Senior Independent Director, independent Executive Directors also play an important part Company in its operations and its dealings with of each other, hold meetings at least annually with in the appointment or removal of Executive all stakeholders.
The observance of that culture the Non Executive Directors without the Executive Directors and in general succession planning for throughout business operations is led by the Directors present, and each did so on one the Board and other executive and senior Chief Executive with the assistance of the other occasion during 2018. management positions below Board level.
Executive Directors and the Group Management Team.
Board responsibilities Board attendance The Board discharges its responsibilities by During the course of 2018 and into 2019, the The Board met on eight occasions during providing strategic and entrepreneurial Board actively reviewed and monitored several 2018 and there was full attendance at all leadership of the Company, within a framework key areas that it considers are important meetings by all Directors.
The Board regularly of strong governance, effective controls and a indicators of the Company culture, including considers the number of Board meetings strong culture emphasising openness and health, safety, and environmental matters as that take place each year and has concluded transparency, which enables opportunities and set out on pages 32 to 33, customer service, that eight meetings remain appropriate risks to be assessed and managed land and major projects, risk strategy, and but will keep the number under review.
In addition, the Board sets the diversity and inclusivity.
The Board will keep all Additional Board meetings would be convened Companys strategic aims: ensures that the of these areas under regular review.
as and when necessary and there are also Number of meetings attended Board members during 2018 in 2018 Kevin Beeston, Chair 8 8 Pete Redfern, Chief Executive 8 8 a Chris Carney, Group Finance Director 7 7 James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 8 8 b Jennie Daly, Group Operations Director 7 7 Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 c Gwyn Burr, Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 Angela Knight, Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 Humphrey Singer, Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 d Mike Hussey, Former Director 4 4 e Ryan Mangold, Former Director 1 1 f Rob Rowley, Former Director 2 2 a Appointed 20 April 2018 b Appointed 20 April 2018 c Appointed 1 February 2018 d Resigned 19 July 2018 e Resigned 20 April 2018 f Resigned 26 April 2018 66 Corporate governance continued The board should include an appropriate The board should establish procedures to How we comply with the UK combination of executive and non executive manage risk, oversee the internal control Corporate Governance Code and, in particular, independent non executive framework, and determine the nature and The UK Financial Reporting Council promotes directors, such that no one individual or small extent of the principal risks the company is high quality corporate governance and reporting group of individuals dominates the boards willing to take in order to achieve its long-term through the 2016 UK Corporate Governance decision-making.
There should be a clear strategic objectives.
Code the Code, with which all companies division of responsibilities between the with a premium listing on the UK Stock leadership of the board and the executive Section 5: Remuneration Exchange are required to either comply in full: leadership of the companys business.
Remuneration policies and practices should be or explain why, and to what extent, they do not See pages 64 and 73. designed to support strategy and promote so comply.
The Corporate Governance section long-term sustainable success.
Executive of this Annual Report explains how the Code Non executive directors should have sufficient remuneration should be aligned to company principles have been applied, as set out below: time to meet their board responsibilities.
They purpose and values, and be clearly linked to the should provide constructive challenge, strategic successful delivery of the companys long-term Section 1: Board Leadership and guidance, offer specialist advice and hold strategy.
Company Purpose management to account.
A successful company is led by an effective A formal and transparent procedure for The board, supported by the secretary, and entrepreneurial board, whose role is to developing policy on executive remuneration promote the long-term sustainable success should ensure that it has the policies, and determining director and senior processes, information, time and resources of the company, generating value for management remuneration should be shareholders and contributing to wider society.
it needs in order to function effectively and established.
No director should be involved in efficiently.
deciding their own remuneration outcome.
The board should establish the companys Section 3: Composition, Succession purpose, values and strategy, and satisfy and Evaluation Directors should exercise independent itself that these and its culture are aligned.
judgement and discretion when authorising Appointments to the board should be subject to All directors must act with integrity, lead by a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, remuneration outcomes, taking account of example and promote the desired culture.
company and individual performance, and wider and an effective succession plan should be Seepages 65 and 75. maintained for board and senior management.
Both appointments and succession plans The board should ensure that the necessary should be based on merit and objective criteria Statement of compliance resources are in place for the company to meet and, within this context, should promote For the year ended 31 December 2018, the its objectives and measure performance against diversity of gender, social and ethnic Company complied with all the provisions of them.
The board should also establish a backgrounds, cognitive and personal strengths.
the Code applicable to the Company for its framework of prudent and effective controls, See pages 89, 91-93. reporting year ended 31 December 2018: the which enable risk to be assessed and Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure managed.
The board and its committees should have a and Transparency Rules sub-chapters 7.1 and combination of skills, experience and knowledge.
7.2 which set out certain mandatory disclosure In order for the company to meet its Consideration should be given to the length of requirements: the FCAs Listing Rules 9.8.
6R, responsibilities to shareholders and service of the board as a whole and membership 9.8.
7AR which include the comply stakeholders, the board should ensure effective regularly refreshed.
Seepages 72 and 74. or explain requirement: and the BEIS Directors engagement with, and encourage participation Remuneration Reporting Regulations and from, these parties.
Annual evaluation of the board should consider Narrative Reporting Regulations.
These its composition, diversity and how effectively regulations are publicly available as follows: The board should ensure that workforce members work together to achieve objectives.
policies and practices are consistent with the Individual evaluation should demonstrate The Code can be found at www.
uk companys values and support its long-term whether each director continues to contribute sustainable success.
The workforce should be effectively.
The FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules able to raise any matters of concern.
as well as Listing Rules can be found at Seepage75.
Section 4: Audit, Risk and Internal www.
uk Control Section 2: Division of Responsibilities The board should establish formal and The BEIS Directors Remuneration Reporting The chair leads the board and is responsible transparent policies and procedures to ensure Regulations and Narrative Reporting for its overall effectiveness in directing the the independence and effectiveness of internal Regulations can be found at www.
They should demonstrate objective and external audit functions and satisfy itself as judgement throughout their tenure and promote to the integrity of financial and narrative The FRC Guidance on Risk Management, a culture of openness and debate.
Internal Control and Related Financial the chair facilitates constructive board relations and Business Reporting can be found at and the effective contribution of all non executive The board should present a fair, balanced and www.
uk directors, and ensures that directors receive understandable assessment of the companys accurate, timely and clear information.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 How we are governed The Board Provides strategic and entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of strong governance and effective controls Is responsible for the Companys culture and for defining and setting its values and standards Establishes the Groups risk appetite and oversees processes designed to ensure compliance therewith Defines which matters are reserved for decision of the Board including profit expectations and dividend policy Reviews the whistleblowing policy and any investigations Ensures effective engagement with shareholders Board Committees Humphrey Singer Kevin Beeston Kate Barker Chair of the Audit Committee Chair of the Nomination Committee Chair of the Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Reviews and advises the Board on Reviews the balance, diversity, Advises the Board on remuneration proposed full year and half year independence and effectiveness policy at Board and senior reporting and announcements of the Board management level connected therewith Oversees the selection, interview Ensures that remuneration is geared to Undertakes a detailed half-yearly and appointment of new Directors to the enhancement of shareholder value review of the Groups risk the Board Ensures that targets are appropriate and assessment and mitigation processes Reviews succession and contingency are geared to delivering the strategy and outcomes, and advises the planning for the Board and across whilst appropriately limiting risk-taking Board on its annual risk review the Groups senior positions and Ensures that rewards for achieving Oversees the relationship with the related training, development and or exceeding agreed targets are external auditor talent management notexcessive Oversees the reporting of internal Reviews, sets targets for, and drives Promotes the increasing alignment of audit investigations and reviews the the strategy and progress to further executive and wider employee implementation of changes resulting improve diversity and inclusivity interests with those of shareholders therefrom throughout the Group and the Companys culture by encouraging appropriate share plan Read more about this Committee Read more about this Committee participation and executive on pages 82 to 86. on pages 87 to 95. shareholding guidelines including post employment Reviews workforce remuneration and related policies and the alignment of incentives with culture, taking these into account when setting the policy for Executive Director remuneration Read more about this Committee on pages 96 to 116.
68 Corporate governance continued Board activities during the year As a Board, we review health, safety and Board activities and priorities Board activities environmental performance at every Board Regular items at Board meetings include the This Report seeks to explain what your Board of meeting.
We also regularly review: our business review of Board Committee activities Audit, Directors does and describes how it is strategy: key risks: the market: operational Nomination and Remuneration Committees : responsible for setting the culture and values of matters: customer service: diversity and detailed updates on health, safety and the Company, ensuring that the Company is run inclusivity: corporate responsibility: our financial environmental matters: reports from the in the best interests of its shareholders as well position and performance: governance, Executive Directors covering progress towards as other stakeholders, and how it interacts with compliance and legal matters including the Companys strategic objectives, its financial its shareholders in explaining the Companys whistleblowing from January 2019 in line with position and prospects, legal and corporate strategic goals and performance against them.
the latest revision to the Code: and  matters, and compliance updates.
From a governance perspective, it is not just a related matters including the make up of our They also included progress reports on case of what is done but also, and just as share register and investor relations addressing past leasehold and cladding importantly, how it is done.
In light of this, we programme: community engagement: and matters: human resourcing: and stakeholder therefore try and avoid a simple box ticking human resources and wider employee matters.
matters including customer services: wider type approach to corporate governance, This is done through the consideration and employee matters: and an update from the preferring our own governance to be something discussion of regular reports submitted by the Companys stockbroker which details that is properly embedded in our people, Executive Directors and through regular reports movement in the share register.
processes and decision making at all levels and and presentations from our senior management vested in the personal values of all Directors and external advisers.
The Board and individual Special matters considered during the year at and senior management.
Directors also undertake regular visits to our Board meetings included the following: regional businesses and their development sites, which have proved to be both very useful and informative.
How the Board planned the implementation of the new strategy Customers and Best in In April, in conjunction with external consultants, communities at the class efficient the Board reviewed a number of key strategic heart of our strategy engine room aims, including the rationale and implications of our customer-centric strategy: and the changes necessary in order to achieve these aims as set out in the adjoining chart.
Becoming a At its May meeting, following a review of customer-centric feedback from the presentation of the new homebuilder Becoming the Build quality: strategy and related dividend strategy at the employer gettingit Capital Markets Day, the Board debated of choice right first time proposals for achieving the RONOA target for 2022 and the planned dividend flows for the enhanced dividends proposed for 2019 and Optimising our beyond.
It also received a presentation on strong landbank plans to further develop the customer-centric approach to business.
In July, there was a detailed discussion on areas of focus across the business including It also undertook, with the assistance of in the supply chain and people development: cultural change, management of that change, an external consultant, a further detailed and cost-reduction plans.
further consideration of risk areas, and consideration of risk in the delivery of the establishment of reporting lines.
There were The December Board appraisal for new strategy and the Boards risk appetite.
also presentations on Productions plans to 2018alsoconsidered additional ways of deliver larger development sites and from a Finally, in December, the Board reviewed and monitoring progress towards delivery of the UK Housing Division on how the strategy agreed strategic goals and priorities for 2019: strategy andthe achievement of the agreed would be applied within its business.
longer term strategic aims: and key areas of goals including additional reporting on our focus for the short term, including critical customer-centric strategy.
At its September Board away day in a processes: right first time product quality: Regional business, the Board received a areview of house types: sourcing of direct number of presentations on the strategy Read more on pages 12 to 26 labour and apprentices: further improvements for delivering larger development sites.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Stakeholder engagement governance meetings held by the Chair Monitored progress with regard to the The Boards objectives for 2018 in this with a number of major shareholders and Taylor Wimpey Ground Rent Review area were: shareholding bodies Assistance Scheme To actively encourage shareholder participation Employee involvement was promoted Oversaw actions to review the Companys through clear messaging and reporting and through regular briefing material online and use of cladding in historic, current and future careful review of shareholder feedback in hard copy: interactive online Q&As: planned developments in response to the To monitor the planned further improvements strategy forums around the businesses: and findings of external reviews into the Grenfell in customer service performance during 2018 explanation of Company performance Tower fire tragedy and to address the To ensure the Group works with around half year and full year reporting findings on individual developments, subcontractors and suppliers to constantly seek and trading statements asappropriate ways of further improving quality: sustainability: Received reports on discussions between The Boards objectives for 2019 in this anddelivery in a safe working environment management and employee representatives area are: To monitor and further develop the employee on the Companys National Employee To actively encourage shareholder participation voice through the National Employee Forum Forum, which was established during 2017 through clear messaging and reporting and in response to the Governments employee careful review of shareholder feedback To achieve those objectives, the Board voice requirement which was incorporated regularly reviewed its duties under s. 172 To monitor the planned further into the July 2018 update of the UK improvements in customer service of the Companies Act 2006 and Corporate Governance Code the Code.
performance during 2019 undertook the following during2018: Meetings of the Forum have generated To ensure the Group works with Conducted shareholder communication useful and informed debate on a number of subcontractors and suppliers to constantly through encouraging attendance at the topics, including remuneration seek ways of further improving quality: AGM: encouraging increased voting on Monitored and reviewed improvements in sustainability: and delivery in a safe resolutions proposed thereat: briefings to customer service performance as the new working environment analysts and the press: and direct processes embedded during 2018 delivered consultation on certain special matters To monitor and further develop the improved customer feedback employee voice through the National Reviewed shareholder engagement and The supply chain received constant Employee Forum feedback arising from the 2018 AGM: the feedback from Group businesses, suppliers presentations of the Full Year 2017 and and subcontractors, which fed into updated Half Year 2018 results: and corporate arrangements and agreements Organisational capacity Received, in addition to its regular update at The Audit Committee also received detailed The Boards objectives for 2018 in this each meeting, two detailed half-yearly half-yearly updates on the development and area were: updates on human resources resilience of the Groups information To ensure that resourcing remains sufficient technology systems Received, in addition to monitoring progress to achieve the strategy together with wider generally throughout the year, two detailed The Board received updates on the financial diversity considerations half-yearly updates on progress against its position of the Groups pension fund and To ensure that training and development Diversity Policy, inclusivity and in respect of related funding objectives plans support continuous improvement in gender pay the team and contribute towards wider The Boards objectives for 2019 in this The Nomination Committee formally reviewed diversity improvements on two occasions the strategy for succession area are: planning and related training assessment and To ensure the Companys resourcing, To achieve those objectives, the Board provision, both for the Board and the including capital, finance, people and land, undertook the following during 2018: executives immediately below Board level, remains sufficient to achieve the strategy Reviewed reports at each meeting on the and progress in achieving it.
The Board also whilst seeking to continuously improve financial performance of the Company and reviewed human resources related matters at performance and meet wider diversity the availability, currently and forecast going each Board meeting considerations forward, of financial, people and supply The Board agreed the Companys second To ensure that training and development chain resourcing statement in respect of the Modern Slavery plans support continuous improvement in Received reports on topics and discussion at Act and reviewed the underlying processes the team and contribute towards wider meetings of the National Employee Forum Reviewed arrangements for compliance with diversity improvements and considered employee participants views GDPR and action taken and proposed for on key areas including strategic, business further improving the resilience of the and remuneration matters Groups information technology systems 70 Corporate governance continued Strategy and execution Received detailed updates on other key determined the amount of final ordinary The Boards objectives for 2018 in this performance areas including business dividend for 2017 and special dividend for area were: culture: customer service and its use of 2018 to be proposed to shareholders at To ensure the Companys strategy remains digital communications: land and planning: the 2018 AGM: the interim dividend for robust in the light of any forecast market and and production and procurement 2018: and the special dividend proposed wider economic changes for 2019 Reviewed and agreed the Group budget for To ensure the Companys performance the period 2018 to 2020: and received a approved in principle the draft 2017 Full remains on schedule to achieve the strategy detailed review of the Groups financial Year Results Statement: the draft 2018 To take all measures to ensure that health position: borrowing facilities: and financing Half Year Results Statement: the Capital and safety remains the Groups top priority alternatives: in relation to its strategic Markets Day arrangements and draft and will remain an ongoing area of focus direction and latest forecasts Strategy Update announced thereat: and the draft Trading Statement to update Considered the Companys dividend policy To achieve those objectives, the Board shareholders on progress for the year to going forward in light of performance undertook the following during 2018: date at the 2018 AGM reports: strategic direction and outlook: Regularly reviewed detailed business and financial position Health, safety and environmental progress and proposals for the delivery of the Companys performance is the first main item of business Received a detailed update on the progress strategy, through considering detailed at each Board meeting and the Board receives of the Companys strategy and an economic strategy proposals for the North: Central each year a detailed presentation on the overview presentation from an independent and South West: Central London and Groups Health, Safety and Environmental external expert as a backdrop to the Groups SouthEast Divisions: specifically for the performance for the year and plans for seeking strategic and performance reviews Central London Region: and for the further improvement going forward Received regular governance updates Major Developments business andbriefings Regularly reviewed performance to date The Boards objectives for 2019 in this At each meeting, detailed reports from the towards achieving its strategic objectives area are: Executive Team were discussed, reviewing through considering, in addition to regular To ensure the Companys strategy remains forward resourcing requirements in the updates from the Executive, detailed robust in the light of any forecast market and areas of capital, finance, people and land, business performance updates from the wider economic changes and operating decisions taken or proposed North: Central and South West: Central To ensure the Companys performance to address them London and South East Divisions: remains on schedule to achieve the strategy In light of the foregoing, the Board also, specifically for the Central London Region: with prior input and advice from the To take all measures to ensure that health and for the Major Developments business: and safety remains the Groups top priority AuditCommittee: together with various year end performance and will remain an ongoing area of focus projections for the Group considered the draft Annual Report and Accounts and Sustainability Report for 2017 and the Half Year results for 2018 Risk management The Boards objectives for 2018 in this At the February meeting the position was following the tragic fire at Grenfell Tower and subject to independent check with external actions taken by the Company to comply area were: auditor reports on risk processes connected with Government guidance To review and agree the Companys with the annual audit Risk was also considered at the December risk appetite in seeking to achieve its Risk and risk appetite were also discussed Audit Committee meeting strategic objectives as special topics during the Boards During the year, the Board and Audit To ensure risk remains within the Companys September away day Committee received updates on key agreed risk appetite and is adequately The Audit Committee conducted a detailed information technology risks including the monitored and reviewed as appropriate to review of risk at its February and July meetings resilience of the Groups systems to cyber reflect external and internal changes immediately preceding the Board meeting and attack and action taken to maintain security To regularly review the robustness of the on each occasion provided advice to the Board The Board undertook a longer-term risk review Companys systems of risk reporting: in connection with the Boards own risk review in preparation for future strategy reviews assessment: and internal controls An assessment of, and mitigation steps relating The Board also received an independent to, the risks arising from Brexit in the areas of To achieve those objectives, the Board review of risk areas from an external adviser its impact on the market environment: material undertook the following during2018: cost: and the availability of subcontractors: The Boards objectives for 2019 in this The risk review was conducted twice during through detailed risk briefings and reviews area are: the year, at the Boards July half year and including a specific paper considered at a February full year meetings and covered both To ensure risk remains within the Companys Board workshop on risk considerations the systems used and the reported risks agreed risk appetite and is adequately Received regular updates on the review of monitored and reviewed as appropriate to historic and more current developments reflect external and internalchanges Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Governance and values to guard against instances of modern slavery The Boards objectives for 2018 in this To achieve those objectives, the Board within the Company and its supply chain area were: undertook the following during 2018: The Company made its second Modern To ensure that there is continued full Received, together with the Board Slavery Act 2015 statement in March 2018 compliance with the Code, including early Committees, regular updates on governance after reviewing its operations and its supply compliance with many of the additional and regulatory developments during the chain.
Detailed guidance has been issued requirements in the July 2018 update of the year, including on remuneration, both from around the business and key personnel Code, and with wider statutory and internal and independent have undertaken training in identifying: regulatory requirements external sources assessing: and reporting any instances that To ensure that remuneration continues to be Checked the status of the Companys might arise: with the aim of reducing the implemented within the framework of the compliance with the requirements of the risks of modern slavery and related practices Companys Remuneration Policy revised Code throughout 2018 and as far as possible implemented areas of early compliance in its To implement the improvements arising from 2018 reporting the  2017 Board appraisal The Boards objectives for 2019 in this Submitted to shareholders at the 2018 AGM To conduct an  Board area are: a Remuneration Report that was approved evaluation for 2018 To ensure that there is continued full with a vote in excess of 98% To monitor shareholder feedback, take compliance with the Code and with wider Concluded the  account of shareholder guidance and statutory and regulatory requirements Board evaluation for 2017, identifying consultation, and continue to actively To ensure that remuneration continues to areas for further improvement and acting promote wider engagement be implemented within the framework of on the recommendations To further embed Modern Slavery Act the Companys Remuneration Policy and Sought shareholder and institutional bestpractice proportionately rewards achievement of feedback, both at the AGM and when the strategy presenting the Companys half year and full To implement the improvements identified year results: the Companys Capital Markets arising from the  2018 Day to deliver the Medium Term Strategy Board appraisal Update: and in notifying proposals for To conduct an effective Board evaluation updating the Remuneration Policy.
The results of the feedback from shareholders To monitor shareholder feedback was taken into consideration by the Board and continue to actively promote together with advice from its stockbrokers wider engagement Reviewed and further enhanced and improved processes and checks designed 72 Corporate governance continued Chris Carney, Group Finance Director, who Gwyn Burr, Independent Non Executive Relevant skills and expertise was appointed to the Board on 20 April 2018, Director, who was appointed to the Board on It is a requirement of the Code that the Board has operational responsibility for managing the 1 February 2018, has over 25 years executive and its Committees should have the appropriate Companys finances and overseeing the IT experience, principally in customer service in balance of skills, experience, independence and department and pensions matters.
Chris has the retail sector, which included the roles of knowledge of the Company to enable duties financial, treasury, risk and financial control Customer Director and Customer Service and responsibilities to be discharged effectively.
expertise including that gained from his time and Colleague Director from 2005 to 2013 at This was reviewed during the year and was with Associated British Foods plc and in private JSainsbury plc.
Gwyn also has significant utilised in drawing up the recruitment practice and later in various roles within the experience on several boards as a non framework, including the list of desired skills, in Companys Finance Department.
He also has executive director.
the process used for the appointment of a new significant operational and transactional Independent Non Executive Director in February experience from his previous roles with the Angela Knight, Independent Non Executive 2018 and in the appointment of one new Director, has significant high-level experience Company as successively Regional Managing and one additional Executive Director on Director: Divisional Managing Director: and in both the public and private sectors.
The Board considers that each public sector, she was a Member of Parliament Divisional Chair: within the Companys UK Director brings relevant and complementary housebuilding operation.
from 1992 until 1997, including two years as the skills, experience and background to the Board, Economic Secretary at HM Treasury, and was details of which are set out below, and James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Chair of the Office of Tax Simplification in HM additional information is also set out in the Company Secretary, is a solicitor and Treasury until the end of February 2019.
In the biographies on pages 58 to 59.
The Board also oversees compliance with legal and regulatory private sector, she has significant experience as considers that each Director is able to allocate obligations and manages the Secretariat and a non executive director including as the Senior sufficient time to the Company to discharge Legal Departments.
James has significant legal, Independent Director of quoted companies.
their responsibilities effectively and makes this commercial, transactional and regulatory an important requirement of recruitment.
Humphrey Singer, Independent Non governance related experience and expertise.
Executive Director, has a wealth of financial Kevin Beeston, Chair, has a wealth Jennie Daly, Group Operations Director, experience, most recently in his role as the of commercial, financial and high level who was appointed to the Board on Chief Finance Officer of Marks and Spencer management experience including being 20 April 2018, has operational responsibility Group plc and previously as Group Finance a former CEO of a FTSE 100 company.
for the Companys land, planning, design Director of Dixons Carphone plc.
In addition, Kevin also has significant experience of and technical, production and supply chain Humphrey also has expertise in the areas of chairing boards of both public and private functions.
Jennie has considerable experience both digital solutions and customer services companies and of being a non executive in the UK housebuilding industry gained in her which is a useful skill set for the Board and the director and sitting on audit, nomination and time with Westbury plc: Harrow Estates Plc: Company.
He has recent and relevant financial remuneration committees.
and Redrow plc and her previous roles with the experience as required by the Code in Company as successively UK Planning Director connection with his Chairing of the Pete Redfern, Chief Executive, has and UK Land Director.
operational responsibility for delivering the Companys strategy in a profitable, safe Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive and environmentally responsible manner.
Director and the Senior Independent Director, Pete has significant financial, operational and is an industry-recognised economist and has management experience, gained from his led policy reviews for the Government in the various roles in industry and from his time at areas of land use, planning and housing supply.
In 2014 he joined the Board of Travis Kate also brings a wider economic insight Perkins plc as an independent non executive gained through her various roles, including as a director and serves on their remuneration and Member of the Oversight Board of the Office for Stay Safe committees chairing the latter.
Budget Responsibility as well as experience from her other non executive positions.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Operational oversight Terms of reference of the Board Committees: Division of responsibilities Audit, Nomination and Remuneration, which Operational management of the Companys The Board has an established framework outline their objectives and responsibilities and business is undertaken by the Chief Executive of delegated financial, commercial and define a programme of activities to support the who receives advice from the Group operational authorities, which define the scope discharge of those responsibilities.
The GMT is the and powers of the Chief Executive and of Policies covering operational, compliance, most senior executive committee and, in operational management.
corporate responsibility and stakeholder addition to the Chief Executive, consists of the matters, including those related to the Bribery Group Finance Director, the Group Legal In line with the Code, the roles and responsibilities Act 2010 and Anti-Corruption referred to Director and Company Secretary, the Group of the Chair and the Chief Executive have been above, which are reviewed whenever Operations Director, the three Divisional Chairs, clearly defined, set out in writing and signed by necessary to take account of developments the Group HR Director and the Managing Kevin Beeston and Pete Redfern in their in corporate governance, changes in Director of the Major Developments business.
The GMT meets on a regular basis and also The Companys Articles of Association.
once each month with the Divisional Managing Health, safety and environment Directors when it sits in the capacity of the As also set out in our 2018 Sustainability These have been updated to reflect the July wider Group Operation Team.
Report, which is available online at 2018 version of the Code and relevant reporting www.
co. uk corporate sustainability, against these is provided to the Board or to the The Board also receives regular reports the Board is fully committed to providing a safe Audit Committee by the Head of Internal Audit and minutes from the Treasury Committee, place in which our employees and subcontractors and the Secretary as appropriate.
which meets under the chairship of the Group can work, and that our customers can live.
We Finance Director, and also comprises the Group also ensure that all of our sites are developed to Advice available to the Board Legal Director and Company Secretary, one of high standards of environmental management.
the Divisional Chairs who rotate periodically All Directors have access to the advice and As the first substantive item at each Board and the Group Treasurer.
The key responsibilities services of the Secretary.
The Board has an meeting, the Board receives detailed reports on of the Treasury Committee are, broadly, to established procedure whereby Directors may health, safety and environmental matters in monitor and keep under review the Groups take independent professional advice at the respect of the Companys operations in the UK financial risks, financial policies, financial Companys expense where they judge it and Spain.
The Companys detailed carbon facilities, covenant compliance and insurance necessary to do so in order to discharge their reporting, as required by the Department for programme in the light of current and proposed responsibilities as Directors.
Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy, is set strategic and operational requirements, and to out on page 41. make recommendations to the Board or GMT, The Board took advice during the year: as appropriate, regarding policy or operational A key element of the Companys strategy is to changes in these areas.
from various safety consultants including give local communities a voice in the progress principally London Fire Consultants & Design of our development sites.
This reflects the All businesses and employees are expected to Associates Limited in reviewing the external Boards awareness of its responsibilities in the operate at all times to the highest standards of cladding system and fire safety arrangements areas of Environmental, Social and Governance integrity and conduct in all matters concerning on relevant developments in light of the ESG.
To achieve this, engagement takes place the Group.
Accordingly, there is a Code of Grenfell Tower fire tragedy and also took in the following ways: Business Conduct, which sets out the standard specific legal and fire safety advice from for individual dealings both internally and professional advisers in ensuring that the Giving local communities a say in externally.
Formal policies have been adopted, appropriate follow-up actions were taken: development plans: which set out the ethical framework within from Ernst & Young for an external Focusing on the value we bring and the which all Taylor Wimpey companies and perspective in reviewing risk: contribution we make to local communities: employees are required to undertake their from Deloitte via the Audit Committee on the Our planning and community engagement business this includes, in line with the Bribery significant governance developments during strategy put into place for each of our Act 2010, an Anti-Corruption Policy which the year: and development sites: requires an annual sign-off by designated senior from Korn Ferry via the Remuneration Supporting the development of local networks management.
All business units receive training Committee on remuneration matters as and seeking to encourage a strong sense of each year from external experts on legislative reported in more detail in the Remuneration community in our development schemes: and regulatory matters.
Making sure that a significant proportion of our procurement is responsibly sourced, The following documents relating to the The Board receives at each meeting a report particularly materials sourcing: and Groups management processes and from JPMorgan Cazenove Cazenove on the division of responsibility are available for Being proud of our continued membership sector and the relative performance of the review on the Companys website at of, and continued commitment to, both the Companys share price.
co. uk corporate Dow Jones Sustainability Europe and the investor-relations corporate-governance: FTSE4Good indices.
Schedule of matters specifically reserved for More details, on these and other initiatives in the decision of the Board, including full these areas, can be found in the Stakeholders oversight of all decisions on profit section on pages 38 to 41 and in our expectations and Dividend Policy.
74 Corporate governance continued The Board will keep its balance and composition Board and Committee balance, Annual re-election to the Board under regular review and when so doing will take diversity, independence and The Code requires every Director to seek election into account the recommendations of the above effectiveness or re-election, as appropriate, at each years Reports encouraging an increased proportion of AGM.
Accordingly, at the 2019 AGM, every A key role of the Board Chair is to ensure that women, referred to above, and also the Parker Director, irrespective of the date of his or her the Board is conducted so as to allow the Review and its Report into the Ethnic Diversity appointment and the length of his or her service Independent Non Executive Directors to challenge of Boards.
on the Board, will be submitted for election or the Executive Directors constructively whilst, at the re-election, as appropriate.
same time, also supporting them to implement the The Code requires at least half of the Board, strategy and run the business effectively.
Another excluding the Chair, to consist of Independent Details of the resolutions to be proposed in this key role is to ensure that it has the right blend of Non Executive Directors.
The Board considers respect and supporting biographical details of skills, independence and knowledge, and this is that there is an effective balance with four the Directors appear in the Notice of Meeting on something that is kept under regular review in Executive Directors and four Non Executive pages 181 to 188. conjunction with the Nomination Committee.
Directors plus the Chair, which ensures that each viewpoint is properly represented around As part of the 2018 Board evaluation process, It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, the Board table.
During the course of the year, the Board reviewed and re-affirmed that it that proposed appointments to the Board, and the Board intends to appoint an additional considers each of the Non Executive Directors succession planning, are based on merit, and Independent Non Executive Director to replace to be independent in character and judgement judged against objective criteria, whilst also Mike Hussey who stood down in July 2018. and that there are no relationships which could having due regard to the benefits of diversity affect the Directors judgement.
In line with the and inclusiveness, including gender, age, It also ensures that in line with the Code, there Code, a rigorous evaluation took place with disability, ethnicity, thought and experience.
is an effective balance of guidance, support and regard to Kate Barker as she will have served for constructive challenge to the Executive.
The eight years by the time of the AGM in April 2019.
The Board also continues to recognise, welcome Board also considers that this will continue to and take very seriously its responsibility to be the case during 2019.
In addition, the Board re-evaluated each comply with the recommendations of the Davies Directors time commitments, and was satisfied Report as built on by the Hampton-Alexander The process typically followed in appointing a that, in line with the Code, they each continued Review, encouraging increased participation by new director to the Board is set out on page 89. to allocate sufficient time to the Company in women on boards, which is now targeted at order to discharge their responsibilities 33% for all FTSE 350 companies by 2020: and The Nomination Committee makes effectively, including not only attendance at which is also aimed at increasing the number of recommendations on appointments and Board and applicable Committee meetings but women in leadership positions of FTSE 100 succession planning to the Board, and more also preparation time for meetings, visits to companies to 33%, namely members of details can be found in the Nomination businesses including the annual Board away the Executive Committee and those senior Committee Report on pages 87 to 95. day visit and other additional requirements leaders who are direct reports to Executive that may be required from time to time.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors will Recognising the importance of the time again be subject to election or re-election as commitment of each Director to shareholders, The proportion of women on the Taylor Wimpey appropriate by shareholders at the AGM of the this will continue to be kept under review for all Board, which was two out of nine 22% at the Company which is being held on 25 April 2019.
Directors during 2019, including as part of the start of 2018, increased to three out of ten Biographical details of each Director can be annual Board evaluation process.
30% in February 2018, to four out of ten 40% found on pages 58 to 59 and also on pages in April 2018 and to four out of nine 44% in 185 to 186.
The Chair, at the time of his appointment on July 2018 where it remained to the end of 2018 1July 2010, met the independence criteria as and to date.
The proportion of women on the Group Management Management Team our equivalent of an Executive Committee and their direct reports, Progress in achieving the Group Strategy is are set out in the Nomination Committee report reviewed at each Board meeting and is on page 93. reported on pages 12 to 26.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for preparing and reviewing strategic plans for the Group and the annual budgetary process.
These are subject to formal review and approval by the Board.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Budgets are re-examined in comparison with Ensuring there is no conflict of interest Whistleblowing business forecasts throughout the year to ensure In order to assist Directors in complying with their The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported they are sufficiently robust in order to reflect the duty to avoid conflicts or possible conflicts of by a clear process that includes an externallypossible impact of changing economic conditions interest, it is standard procedure that the Board facilitated hotline through which any person, and circumstances.
The Chief Executive and the must first give its clearance to such potential including employees of the Company, may, Board conduct regular reviews of actual results conflicts of interest which would include in confidence, raise concerns about possible and future projections with comparison against directorships or other interests in outside improprieties in financial reporting, other budget and prior year, together with various companies and organisations following which, operational matters or inappropriate behaviours treasury reports.
Disputes that may give rise to an entry is then made in the statutory register in the workplace.
All whistleblowing cases are significant litigation or contractual claims are which the Company maintains for this purpose.
formally investigated by the Head of Internal monitored at each Board meeting, with specific Audit, Group Director of Health, Safety and updates on any material developments or new Whenever any Director considers that he or she Environment where appropriate, Group Human matters presented by the Secretary.
is, or may be, interested in any contract or Resources Director and or the Group Legal arrangement to which the Company is or may Director and Company Secretary depending on The Group has clearly defined policies, be a party, the Director gives due notice to the the nature of the issue.
The Chief Executive is processes and procedures governing all areas Board in accordance with the Companies Act apprised of all allegations and conclusions of of the business, which will continue to be 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
reviewed and refined in order to meet the In such cases, unless allowed by the Articles, any requirements of the business and changing Director with such an interest is not permitted to Whistleblowing incidents and their outcome market circumstances.
Defined authority limits participate in any discussions or decisions are reported to the Audit Committee.
continue to be closely monitored in response to relating to the contract or arrangement.
Whistleblowing was a standing item on each prevailing market conditions.
Any investment, Audit Committee agenda during 2018 and will acquisition or significant purchase or disposal of The Board undertakes a regular review of each feature on the Boards agenda on a regular land requires detailed appraisal and is subject to Directors interests, if any, outside the Company.
basis during 2019, which allows the Committee, approval by the Board or the Chief Executive, In addition, all new appointments and interests and the Board going forward, to regularly review depending on the value and nature of the of Directors are reported to the Board for the adequacy of the policy in line with its investment or contract.
consideration or noting as appropriate.
Following requirement to do so under the Code.
these reviews, the Board remains satisfied that, Thepolicy itself is periodically reviewed and There is a clearly identifiable organisational in line with the Code, all Directors are able to includes the ability for workers to make structure and a framework of delegated authority allocate sufficient time to the Company to enable protected disclosures with regard to matters approved by the Board within which individual them to discharge their responsibilities as arising under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 with responsibilities of senior executives of Group Directors effectively and that any current external regard to our business and its supply chain.
companies are identified and can be monitored.
appointments do not detract from the extent Following a review of the process and The Operating Framework, within which or quality of time which the Director is able to administration: and a re-launch of the delegated authorities, responsibilities and related devote to the Company.
This is further borne awareness campaign around the Companys processes are explained in detail, is available for out by Directors attendance at Board and businesses and offices, conducted during 2018: review and guidance online by any employee Committee meetings, which has been at or the Committee is satisfied that the policy and its through the Companys intranet.
These activities very close to 100% over many years.
are reinforced through process compliance and other audits conducted by Internal Audit.
Oversight of the Companys Whistleblowing Anti-bribery and anti-corruption process became a matter for the Board with The annual employee performance appraisal In line with the Bribery Act 2010, the Company effect from 1 January 2019, in line with the process is competency-based, with individual has written policies on avoiding and not tolerating change to best practice contained in the objectives cascaded down from the appropriate bribery or corruption.
The policies apply across July2018 updating of the Code.
The process also identifies all of the Companys businesses and are available has already acted to transfer Whistleblowing training needs to support achievement for review externally on the Companys website from the Audit Committee to the Board in of objectives.
and by all employees on the Companys intranet.
compliance with this new requirement and has The risk to the Company of non-compliance published revised Terms of Reference to reflect During 2018 the Groups control environment would be reputational damage, financial penalties this change.
was further enhanced through a robust risk and the possible exclusion from certain approved assessment and review led by the Audit partner arrangements.
These risks are mitigated Committee, which identified the key risks to be by training for senior managers and by issuing an reviewed and assessed by Internal Audit as part annual reminder to all businesses and key of its programme of work during the year.
departments requiring each managing director or departmental head to check that their teams have complied with the policies during the reporting year: remain aware of the policies requirements for the coming year: and to formally confirm in writing that they have done so.
76 Corporate governance continued Engaging with our stakeholders We actively encourage Our Our engagement with our customers partners shareholders and other stakeholders Engagement with our customers Engagement with our supply chain The Directors are required by law to act in a way that promotes the Delivering high levels of customer satisfaction The Company negotiates with success of the Company for the enhances the reputation of our business and reduces subcontractors and suppliers, both on a benefit of shareholders as a whole.
the costs associated with rectifying poor-quality work.
national and a local basis, to develop In so doing the Company must also The Board and the Group Management Team national framework agreements and to have regard to wider expectations of regularly review customer satisfaction scores as agree both national and local commercial responsible business behaviour, such independently reported and consider ways in which terms.
These reflect the payment practices as having due regard to the interests these can be improved.
The online Customer Portal, and performance in respect of which we of its employees: the need to foster introduced during 2017, is proving very popular and have published two six-monthly Payment business relationships with suppliers, effective in delivering greater customer choice and Practice Reports, which may be found customers and others: the need to interactive two-way communication as the building online at https: .
act fairly as between members of the and sales processes are progressed.
uk company 01392762 reports Company: the likely consequences part of the Companys strategy review, a number of of any decision in the long term: the We engage with our suppliers at both local customer focus groups were consulted as to key desirability of maintaining a reputation considerations, preferences and concerns when and national level to keep them informed of for high standards of business key forecasting information.
considering the purchase of a new home and the conduct: and the impact of the feedback from these informed the Boards thinking Companys operations on the We engage with our suppliers on a wide range when establishing its new customer-centric strategic community and the wider environment.
of sustainability initiatives through meetings, approach announced at its Capital Markets Day in workshops and our membership of the May 2018.
During the year, the Board specifically Supply Chain Sustainability School.
We are discussed this requirement on several The Board receives monthly reports on customer refocusing on waste elimination and reduction occasions and concluded that its including packaging waste in particular.
service matters, at Group level and for each existing processes and decision operating division.
The Ground Rent Review making, properly take into account The Company also engages with NonAssistance Scheme, established by the Company both the duty to shareholders and the Governmental Organisations NGOs and in 2017, to help customers who have leases with remaining considerations with regard expert organisations to assist us in creating ground rents that double for a period prior to being to other stakeholder matters as sustainable communities around our capped, has made good progress in converting referred to above.
housing developments, covering areas such leases for those customers who applied to the as urban design: ecology: and innovation.
Scheme to one with ground rent based on an Engagement with stakeholders and RPI mechanism.
consideration of their respective We employed a full-time Research and interests in the Companys decisionDevelopment Manager in 2018 with specific More details are set out on pages 5, 12, 14 making process, took place during the and 30-31. responsibilities for innovation.
The role year as described on this page and on includes a high level of engagement with our pages 77 to 79. supply chain, both material manufacturers, suppliers and subcontractors, across a wide range of products and services.
The role dovetails with our supplier relationship programme, in which we seek to enhance and improve both process and product with our key supply chain partners.
The strategy approved by the Board reflected this engagement through seeking to increase the proportion of long term partnerships with subcontractors and suppliers and further increasing the high standards the Company sets in relation to safety, skills development and environmental responsibility.
More details are set out on pages 16, 22 and 34 to 35 and in the Sustainability Report for 2018.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Our Our investors communities announcement of the Companys Full Year and Half Engagement with our shareholders Engagement with local Year results including roadshows following each communities The Board actively seeks and encourages announcement: and a briefing to sector stock engagement with shareholders, including its major We actively seek the views of local market analysts at the Capital Markets Day on institutional shareholders and shareholder communities and develop a tailored 15 May 2018 as part of which we introduced the representative bodies.
The Board fully supports planning and community engagement two Executive Directors appointed in April, Chris the principles of the UK Corporate Governance strategy for each development site, Carney and Jennie Daly: and which included an Code and also welcomes and acknowledges the working closely with communities and update on the Companys strategy.
Stewardship Code, both of which aim to foster a other local stakeholders throughout all more proactive governance role by major aspects of the planning process.
This In addition, in line with the Code, the Chair wrote shareholders.
The Board has put in place feeds into Board discussion of future to twelve of the Companys major shareholders, arrangements designed to facilitate contact with development plans when considering offering to meet with them if they had questions shareholders concerning business, governance, strategic direction and progress, and around the Companys strategy or governance.
remuneration and other relevant topics.
when considering major capital Meetings have been held with those shareholders Thisprovides the opportunity for meetings expenditure proposals referred to the who requested one and a number of others took between shareholders and the Chair, the Board including on land purchase.
the opportunity to confirm that there are no major independent Non Executive Directors including issues at present.
the Senior Independent Director as well as the A key element of the Companys strategy Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and is a renewed focus on placemaking and The Company also consulted on its remuneration Group Legal Director and Company Secretary community when developing new sites proposals for 2019, with its largest institutional and other executives as appropriate, in order to and this involves interacting with all key shareholders and shareholder representative establish a mutual understanding of objectives.
stakeholders when designing, building, bodies.
More details are set out in the The Company also operates a structured and marketing, new housing Remuneration Report on page 104. programme of investor relations, based on formal developments and taking their views announcements and publications covering the fully into account.
Key themes discussed with shareholders during Full Year and Half Year results.
In addition, the the year included: Chair meets with the Companys institutional We also support communities, both shareholders from time to time, both proactively locally and nationally, through our Current trading, market demand and house and upon request, in order to discuss the charitable work, including financially and price outlook: Company and its performance, governance and giving time, energy and leadership to Guidance for 2018 and outlook for 2019 remuneration policies.
As set out in the support local efforts.
andbeyond: Remuneration Report, the Remuneration The Companys new strategy: Committee undertakes a consultation exercise During 2018 we worked with Design For The likely impact of Brexit and Government each year and as part of this exercise, the Homes to deliver training programs for policy: Committee Chair also engages directly with our Regional design teams on use of the The land market, build costs and labour shareholders and their representative bodies.
placemaking design tool Building For availability: More details are set out on pages 69, 97 and 104.
Life and also contributed to the The Companys financial targets and dividend Governments round table discussions The Company is, of course, also always very policy: and on design quality.
pleased to hear from and engage with our The mortgage market and customer drivers.
private shareholders and has, for example, More details are set out on pages 14, 38 to 39 and in the Sustainability Report for previously met with the United Kingdom All Directors receive formal reports and briefings 2018.
Shareholders Association to facilitate contact during the year about the Companys investor with shareholders located in the North of relations programme and receive detailed feedback England, which took place at a regional office through surveys, direct contact and also other and included site visits.
This enables all Directors to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders What our shareholders have asked about the Company, which are then taken into account when considering major strategic and us this year operational alternatives open to the Company.
During 2018 the Company held meetings with shareholders holding in aggregate around 27% The Board encourages all shareholders to vote at of the Companys shares, taking the form of the AGM, which is attended by all Directors.
The group meetings: one to one meetings: site visits: Notice of Meeting, including details of all resolutions conference telephone calls: the AGM both to be proposed at the meeting, is set out on pages before, during and after the meeting: at the 181 to 188.
78 Corporate governance continued Our employees The Company has participated in the 2018 to the extent reasonably possible by Engagement with our employees Workforce Disclosure Initiative which aims to investigating the possibility of making The principal forum for engagement with our provide greater disclosure on workplace reasonable adjustments to the job, employees is the National Employee Forum practices, including in the areas of supply chain: workplace or equipment.
NEF which was introduced by the Board employee contracts: and Board governance during 2017 and has worked well throughout More details are set out on page 121. oversight of the Companys workforce.
This 2018 and into 2019, giving the Companys initiative is aimed at focusing companies attention employees an extended voice with regard on workforce practices in areas where there is Careers to key matters that are being considered.
risk of harmful workplace practices.
The Board is very mindful of the need to Further details are set out in the case study develop skills in the housebuilding industry, on page 79.
More details are set out on pages 20 to 21, particularly in light of the possible challenges 32 to 33 and 120 to 121 and the case study around Brexit, and the Company continues to The Company responded during 2018 to on page 79. offer a significant number of opportunities for feedback received from employees as part of the development of new skills: the 2017 employee engagement survey Health and safety Talkback with the aim of further improving The health and safety of our employees: Apprentices are given opportunities to our collaboration, work environment and customers: suppliers: subcontractors: and all develop in key building trades: methods of ensuring our employees have the visitors to our businesses and development sites: necessary tools and resources they need to The Graduate programme, which lasts two to continues to be a non-negotiable top priority for the do their job.
three years, helps to fulfil our talent succession Company.
The Board receives reports on health, requirements in Strategic Land, Land, Sales, safety and environmental matters, at Group level A further Talkback employee engagement ITand Finance as well as supporting key and for each operating division at each Board survey is planned for 2019 to assess business and charity projects throughout their Meeting.
The HSE Director attends each Group employees reaction to the key areas that we time on the programme: Operation Team meeting and also attends the have implemented as a result of the 2017 All employees have annual reviews linked to Board on an annual basis to present on key HSE survey.
These were to improve access to a personal development plans and targets for issues, initiatives, trends and statistics.
wider range of learning and development: further improving their skills and experience: and more agile working environments when Training is available to assist employees in More details are set out on pages 32 to refurbishing or relocating to new offices: an seeking to maximise their opportunities 33 and 60. increased focus on the health and wellbeing around the Group.
of our employees, particularly around mental Consideration of people health awareness: and the introduction of the More details are set out on pages 20 to 21 and withdisabilities NEF, mentioned earlier, giving employees a 120 to 121. voice in key areas.
The planned 2019 survey The Company is committed to making its products will also invite employees to identify areas accessible to customers with disabilities and to Pensions where we can make further improvements.
ensuring that prospective employees with The Board is regularly updated on the funding The findings of this survey will be reported in disabilities should have fair consideration for all position of its various pension arrangements for next years Annual Report and Accounts.
Group employees, both present and those in retirement.
We also maintain a number of active To provide more flexibility for customers with employee communication channels including disabilities, the majority of the houses in our The Company has two types of pension scheme employee-based committees: communicate new house type range will be designed to Level a defined contribution pension plan which is through our half-yearly Teamtalk magazine 2 of Part M of the Building Regulations.
This available to new and existing UK employees and and regular Teamtalk Express email enhanced standard allows for easier movement a defined benefit pension scheme Taylor newsletter: and actively seek employee ideas into and around the house as well as providing Wimpey Pension Scheme which is closed to and feedback on strategy, current business flexibility in adapting bathrooms and bedrooms both new members and to future accrual.
plans, and production, health, safety and for disabled people.
The defined contribution pension plan limits the More details are set out on page 28 and in our Companys obligation to payment of contributions Following the release of the Companys new Sustainability Report for 2018. based on a fixed percentage of employees pay, strategy in May 2018, a number of employee with no further legal or constructive obligations to focus groups were held at which senior For employees, the Company is committed, pay further contributions to the plan.
executives of the Group brought to life the new where possible, to ensuring that people with strategy and gained feedback on key areas disabilities are supported and encouraged to including the development of implementation apply for employment: to achieve progress plans for specific business areas.
once employed: and for this to be facilitated Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Our employees The defined benefit pension scheme provides National Employee Forum benefits to beneficiaries in the form of a The National Employee Forum NEF introduced around the business: and progress of the guaranteed level of pension payable for life by the Board during 2017, has worked well key strategic initiatives: which is paid from a Trustee-administered throughout 2018, giving the Companys discussion of the Companys vision, mission, fund.
The Trustee is responsible for ensuring employees a voice with regard to key matters values and cultural principles, including that the Scheme is well managed and that that are being considered.
The NEF builds on our further developing how this meshes with the members benefits are secure.
The Company continuing network of Employee Consultation Companys strategic aim of becoming a truly works closely with the Trustee of its defined Committees and consists of elected employees customer-centric business: benefit pension scheme to assess the from a variety of geographic areas, site and office initiatives to become an employer of choice, funding position of the scheme with the based disciplines, and seniority across the UK reviewing feedback from strategy focus overall aim of securing and safeguarding business.
Meetings were held quarterly during groups conducted across the business and current and retired employees pension 2018 and all generated a good level of healthy external assessments of the Companys entitlements in the long term.
The meetings are attended by a member relative attractiveness as an employer, and of the Group Management Team and so far have More details are set out in Note 21 to the discussing the appropriateness of actions been attended by either the Group Legal Director underway to address, and further improve, Accounts on pages 154 to 158. and Company Secretary and or by the Group in relevant areas: Human Resources Director.
Other senior Diversity and inclusivity receiving an overview of Company benefits, executives attend as appropriate, when topics including a detailed review of target-setting The Board has established a plan to increase such as strategy, remuneration and other for the Company Bonus Scheme and the diversity and inclusivity in their widest sense operational matters are discussed.
The Chair and method by which the Company car fleet is throughout the business and has published the Chair of the Remuneration Committee selected and made available to eligible targets for improvement and details of attended one meeting during 2018, at which employees: progress made towards their achievement.
they explained and answered questions on an overview of how the Board operates, the structure of the Board, wider corporate including the role of the Chair and the Diversity and inclusivity featured strongly in governance considerations and the Companys respective roles of the Executive and Non Board discussions on strategy and is a core remuneration policy.
Executive Directors: message in the latest strategic plan announced at the Capital Markets Day in an overview of the role of the Remuneration The Board receives at each Board meeting detailed Committee, including the role of its Chair, May 2018.
The Board receives regular reports on employee matters, at Group level and updates on progress through the Chief and an explanation of its remuneration for each operating division, and these, together principles and how they are applied: Executives reports and operating updates with feedback from the NEF meetings, inform the at each Board meeting and there is more a review of the use of technology in the Boards discussion on matters potentially affecting detailed analysis of progress and future business and updates on progress with employees to a significant extent.
plans by the Nomination Committee.
ITprojects: Topics of discussion may be proposed by any a discussion on the Companys policy for In this connection, during 2018 we engaged employee but generally consist of key areas on detecting and addressing the risk of with The Disability Forum with a view to which the Company seeks the views of, and instances of modern slavery in its business raising awareness of the challenges facing feedback from, employees, including: and its supply chain: and people with disabilities: with the EY seeking input on proposed business initiatives.
Foundation which tries to reduce the barriers strategy briefings and discussion of feedback that young people from all backgrounds face from focus groups on key areas, including when trying to find employment: and the how best to deliver strategic messages Leonard Cheshire Disability Change 100 programme to help increase the number of people employed with a disability.
Consideration of diversity and inclusivity also features strongly in talent and succession planning by both the Board and the Nomination Committee.
80 Corporate governance continued Feedback was then provided on an individual Details of this years evaluation: its outcome: the Board evaluation basis, by the Senior Independent Director to the actions planned by the Board during 2019 to A key requirement of good governance is Chair and vice versa : and through the Chair address the issues raised: and the actions ensuring that the Board itself is operating discussing each individual Directors own taken during 2018 to address the issues raised effectively.
The carrying out of an annual performance assessment with the relevant in the last externally facilitated evaluation evaluation is a very important exercise and it is Director on a one-to-one basis.
conducted in 2017 and reported in last years one which the Board and each Director takes Annual Report, are set out in the table opposite.
very seriously, whilst also recognising the focus The recommendations arising from the Board that our shareholders place on it.
In line with evaluations for 2017 and 2018, together with This 2018 Annual Report and Accounts the Code, the Board conducts its annual actions taken during 2018 in relation to the Your Directors have responsibility for preparing evaluation exercise via an independent external former, and actions taken and planned during this 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and for facilitator once every three years.
The last such 2019 in relation to the latter, are set out in the making certain confirmations concerning it.
In  evaluation was conducted table opposite.
accordance with Section 4, Principle N, for 2017 and reported on in detail in last years Provision 27 of the Code formerly Provision Corporate Governance Report.
The overall outcome of the 2018 evaluation C. 1.1 prior to the July 2018 updating of the exercise was that the Board considered that it Code the Board considers that, taken as a The main action points arising from that continues to function effectively and in line with whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable exercise, and action taken in respect of each, first class corporate governance principles, and and provides the information necessary for are set out in the table opposite.
is providing effective leadership to the Group.
shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The evaluation for 2018 was internally facilitated As part of the Board evaluation, the time by the Chair in conjunction with the Secretary.
commitments of all Directors in line with the The Board was able to reach this conclusion The exercise, which considered the effectiveness requirements of the Code were reviewed in after receiving advice from the Audit Committee.
of the Board, each Board Committee and each detail.
Following this review, the Board was The processes of review and assessment Director, was conducted between October and satisfied that each Director was able to allocate followed by that Committee in that respect are November 2018 and consisted of the following: sufficient time to discharge his or her set out on page 86. responsibilities to the Company effectively.
A detailed and comprehensive bespoke This included not only attendance at Board The Viability Statement, as required by the questionnaire which the Secretary and applicable Committee meetings where Code, appears on page 51. distributed securely online to each attendance was 100% during 2018 for all individual Director for completion and Directors, except that Rob Rowley was absent return to him: from one meeting of the Nomination Collation of the responses was undertaken Committee, convened at short notice, due to an by the Secretary on a non-attributable basis: unavoidable previous engagement but also Review by the Chair and the Secretary of preparation time for meetings, visits to our each performance area, and by the Chair businesses and other additional requirements of each individual Director: that may be required from time to time.
Review by the Senior Independent Director and the Secretary on the feedback Consistent with previous exercises, the 2018 evaluation proved to be very useful.
It again provided on the performance of the Chair: provided an opportunity to reflect on how we Led by the Senior Independent Director, operate and where we can improve as a Board.
the Independent Non Executive Directors I can confirm that the Board has already also met separately to review the Chairs focused on the areas identified for improvement performance based on the non-attributable and will continue to do so during the course feedback and also to discuss other matters: of 2019.
Presentation of the findings on the Board and Board Committees to the Board in December 2018 on a non-attributable basis: Preparation of action plans designed to address the findings, discussed at the Board in February 2019, as set out in the table opposite, and to be actioned during2019.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 2017 Evaluation Recommendations included Actions taken during the year Devote additional Board time Strategy: Although significant time is already devoted to strategic matters and these are tostrategy.
considered at each Board meeting, this recommendation was addressed with additional time set aside at the Boards meeting in April 2018, at which the Board considered alternatives for the next stage of the Companys strategy, which culminated in the announcement of the Companys updated, medium term strategy at the Capital Markets Day on 15 May 2018.
A discussion also took place on strategy-related matters at the September away day Board meeting.
Devote additional time to risk Risk: Work commenced on this area during 2017 and was further developed during 2018, with including non-operational risk, risk being specifically discussed at five Board meetings during 2018 including at the September and those risks which are away day Board meeting.
In addition to the usual half-yearly risk reviews, substantial portions of considered to be strategic and three other meetings were devoted to the consideration of longer-term and lower-probability risks: lower probability in nature.
operational risk: and a presentation and detailed discussion on the consideration of the Companys risk appetite, together with external advice and attendance of advisers.
This key area remains firmly on the Boards agenda during 2019 and an update will be provided in the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
Undertake additional focus on Succession planning: This continued to be a particular area of focus for the Nomination succession planning taking into Committee and the Board during 2018, with detailed reviews of progress and consideration of account forthcoming Non Executive alternative plans going forward, conducted at each of the Committees meetings during 2018.
Director changes based on length Details of Non Executive Director changes during 2018 and action taken and proposed to maintain ofservice.
the effective composition of the Board, are set out on pages 62 and 63.
2018 Evaluation Recommendations included Actions being or to be taken during2019 Maintain focus onprogress in Strategy: The Board will regularly review during 2019 how the strategic direction is being adopted achieving the strategy.
and progressed across the business and will agree and monitor this progress against milestones around the interim strategic goals and priorities identified by the Group Management Team.
Maintain further progress on Succession planning: Action has already commenced to deepen the overall strength in depth of succession planning in the the Finance function across the business and the Nomination Committee will be kept apprised of Finance area.
progress throughout 2019 and going forward.
Develop a faster pace of Diversity: The Board will continue to monitor progress of diversity and inclusivity matters across improvement on diversity and the Group during 2019.
Diversity and inclusivity is included as a special topic at a Board meeting inclusivity at all levels across during each year when the Chair of the Diversity and Inclusivity Committee attends and updates the the Group.
Board on ongoing initiatives, objectives and priorities.
The Board also receives regular updates on diversity and inclusivity throughout the year.
Develop improved methods Customer-centric strategy: The Board believes that considerable progress has already been of monitoring progress in the made in this area and additional reporting is being developed to assist in driving further strategic aim of becoming a improvements and monitoring their effectiveness.
In addition to regular reporting, progress on our more customer-centric business.
customer-centric approach will also be included as a special topic during 2019.
Implement ideas from Non Executive Board processes: A number of good suggestions were made, including the holding of pre-Board Directors from their other Board breakfast meetings with, for example business leaders: leading industry commentators: and or with appointments with a view to stakeholder groups.
enhancing the Taylor Wimpey Board processes.
