DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT TED BAKER PLC NOMINATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE STATEMENT During the period, the Company was subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code dated April 2016.
The Code was issued by Ted Bakers culture and values are central to the success of the the Financial Reporting Council and is available to view on the REMUNERATION RISK business, and that includes strong governance throughout the Financial Reporting Councils website https: www.
COMMITTEE COMMITTEE business, while asking ourselves the question: Would Ted do The Board confirms that the Company has complied with the it that way?
provisions set out in the Code throughout the year, except in respect of Code Provision C. 3.1.
An explanation of the reason AUDIT IT STEERING for this departure from the Code is set out on page 42.
COMMITTEE COMMITTEE An explanation of how the Main Principles have been applied is set out below: LEADERSHIP The Board has clear divisions of responsibility and is collectively responsible for the long-term success EXECUTIVE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of Ted Baker.
Our Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
COMMITTEE COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS We evaluate the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board and its committees to ensure we are effective.
ACCOUNTABILITY We present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Teds position and prospects.
The Board To enable the Board to function effectively and for the BOARD EVALUATION maintains sound risk management and internal control systems.
Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely During the period, the Board undertook an informal evaluation REMUNERATION Director remuneration is set to promote the long-term success of Ted.
See the Directors Remuneration access is provided to all relevant information.
A comprehensive of its own performance, its committees performance and Report on pages 5068. board pack and formal agenda is prepared and circulated in the performance of its Directors, with continuing assessment RELATIONSHIPS WITH Strong relationships with our shareholders are key to fulfilling our objectives.
The Board ensures that advance of each Board meeting.
Board members regularly undertaken throughout the year in review.
Informal evaluations SHAREHOLDERS effective and frequent dialogue with our shareholders takes place.
See page 40. input into the level and quality of information provided, and and assessments conducted by the Board and its committees BOARD COMPOSITION of matters reserved to it for decision that is regularly updated.
request specific board papers on additional agenda items.
covered a range of issues around Board and Committee The Board currently comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, These include decisions on the Groups strategy, financial There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent membership, roles and responsibilities, and succession.
the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer and Group budgets, major capital expenditure and transactions, professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The most recent externally facilitated evaluation of the Finance Director and three independent Non-Executive appointment of territorial and product licence partners, store This is in addition to the access each Director has to the Board and Committees effectiveness was undertaken by Directors.
Biographies of these Directors appear on page openings, dividend policy, Group bonus and risk profile.
Sean OHare of Boardroom Dialogue Limited, an independent 36.
The Board is of the view that its current membership The requirement for Board approval on these matters is The Company maintains an appropriate level of Director external adviser with no other connection to the Company, in provides an appropriate balance of skills, experience, understood and communicated widely throughout the Group.
and officer liability insurance cover and, through the Articles the 2015 16 financial period.
independence and knowledge, which enables it to discharge The Non-Executive Directors meet with the Chairman of Association and Directors terms of appointment, has That Board evaluation concluded that the Board was its responsibilities effectively.
In addition, the Non-Executive agreed to indemnify the Directors against certain liabilities to working well, considering the right topics on a timely basis Directors meet without the Chairman present to appraise the third parties and costs and expenses incurred as a result of and with an appropriate level of challenge.
Areas of focus for BOARD INDEPENDENCE Chairmans performance.
Save for such indemnity provisions the Non-Executive Directors continue to be enhancing Board The Board considers Non-Executive Directors Ron Stewart, Operational decision making, operational performance in the Companys Articles of Association and in the Directors engagement with the Executive Committee and building on Andrew Jennings and Jennifer Roebuck to be independent for and the formulation of strategic proposals to the Board are terms of appointment which were in force throughout existing long-term succession planning throughout the Group, the purposes of the Code.
controlled by the Groups Executive Committee, which is the period and are in force as at the date of these financial which have been addressed during the current period.
comprised of the Board of Directors of No Ordinary Designer statements, there are no qualifying third-party indemnity The next externally facilitated Board evaluation will be BOARD OPERATION Label Limited one of the Groups operating subsidiaries provisions in force.
conducted in accordance with the requirements of the Code The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It considers, together with relevant heads of department as required.
with the support of the Board Committees and the Executive The Executive Committee meets regularly throughout Committee, all issues relating to the strategy, direction and the year.
future development of the Group.
The Board has a schedule Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 38 39
