AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION The members of the Audit Committee the Committee include independent non-executive directors Julian Schild Chairman, Beatrice Hollond and Andrew Blowers.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provision C. 3.1 the Committee comprises three independent nonexecutive directors.
Julian Schild is also identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Attendance at Committee meetings during the current year by Committee members is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 40 of this document.
In accordance with best practice, the Committee has the opportunity to meet with the external auditor of the Company without the presence of any executive directors and has done so during the current year.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: reviewing the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and the direction of the external auditor to investigate any matters of particular concern: assessing the effectiveness of the Companys external auditor, including considering the scope and results of the annual audit: reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and assessing any potential impact on objectivity resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance: and reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and other internal control and risk management processes.
The senior management team and executive directors periodically review the effectiveness of key internal control and risk management processes within the Company and report any changes in such activities to the Audit Committee and the external auditor for consideration.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2018 The Committees main activities during the year included a review of the financial statements involving a detailed evaluation of the significant accounting issues therein.
46 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The actions taken by the Committee in regard to these issues are described in the table below.
ISSUE ACTION TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE Operational accuracy of billing system Review of internal analysis and external auditor procedures.
Monitoring of regulator communications Ofgem, BABT and monthly monitoring of detailed call centre statistics which would indicate significant billing issues.
Revenue recognition in relation to energy services Monitoring of key assumptions underlying the recognition of energy revenues based on internal analysis.
Valuation of parent Company investments Review of key assumptions underlying the value of the parent Company investments.
Risk of management override of internal controls Review of significant accounting estimates and judgements in relation mainly to receivables balances.
Also, in conjunction with the Companys external auditor, the Audit Committee has considered, amongst other matters, compliance with the provisions of the Code and accounting developments, the Companys financial control environment and its risk management and control processes.
As part of this process the Audit Committee has also considered the need for any special projects or internal investigations and concluded that no such additional projects or investigations have been required.
In accordance with the Code provision C. 3.6, the Audit Committee has also considered the need for an internal audit function at the Company.
In the light of the simplicity of the Group structure, its single country focus, its relatively straightforward financial model, the internal controls in place and the fact that management and the Board conduct regular financial reviews, the Committee has recommended to the Board that an internal audit function is not currently appropriate for the business.
This decision will be kept under regular review and where appropriate extended assurance will also be sought in specific areas of concern.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Companys half year and annual financial statements.
The Committee has advised the Board that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole provide a fair, balanced and understandable picture of the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee has also been involved in discussions regarding the forthcoming implementation of IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers, and the potential impact of the standard on the financial statements of the Company.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS The Companys external auditor, KPMG, presented a detailed audit report to the Audit Committee following a review of the annual financial statements.
Having regard to its review of the work performed by the external auditor during the year and its approach to key audit issues, the Audit Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of KPMG as external auditor.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 47 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In reaching this conclusion, the Committee assessed: the efficiency with which the audit team was able to understand the Company and its systems and processes: the experience and expertise of the audit team: the scope and eventual fulfilment of the detailed audit plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the audit team in their handling of key accounting and audit judgements: and the nature and quality of the content of the external auditors report.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board, for approval by shareholders at the AGM, the reappointment of KPMG as the Companys external auditor for the coming year.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE In order to guard against the objectivity and independence of the external auditor being compromised, the provision of any significant additional services remains subject to the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee would normally be likely to prohibit the provision of the following types of non-audit related work by the Companys external auditor: tax services relating to: i preparation of tax forms: ii payroll tax: iii customs duties: iv identification of public subsidies and tax incentives unless support from the external auditor in respect of such services is required by law: v support regarding tax inspections by tax authorities unless support from the external auditor in respect of such inspections is required by law: vi calculation of direct and indirect tax and deferred tax: and vii provision of tax advice: services that involve playing any part in the management or decision-making of the Company: bookkeeping and preparing accounting records and financial statements: payroll services: designing and implementing internal control or risk management procedures related to the preparation and or control of financial information or designing and implementing financial information technology systems: valuation services, including valuations performed in connection with actuarial services or litigation support services: legal services, with respect to: i the provision of general counsel: ii negotiating on behalf of the Company: and iii acting in an advocacy role in the resolution of litigation: services linked to the financing, capital structure and allocation, and investment strategy of the Company, except providing assurance services in relation to the financial statements, such as the issuing of comfort letters in connection with prospectuses issued by the Company: 48 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements promoting, dealing in, or underwriting shares in the Company: and human resources services, with respect to: i management in a position to exert significant influence over the preparation of the accounting records or financial statements which are the subject of the statutory audit, where such services involve: searching for or seeking out candidates for such position: or undertaking reference checks of candidates for such positions: ii structuring the organisation design: and iii cost control.
The Committee will also prohibit any other work where mutual interests exist that could impair the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
REPORTING OF STAFF CONCERNS Melvin Lawson, a long-standing non-executive director, is the primary point of contact for staff of the Company to raise, in confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, financial or otherwise.
All employees have been notified of this arrangement in the Staff Handbook and on the Companys intranet website which sets out Melvin Lawsons contact details Code provision C. 3.5.
No such matters were raised by employees during the current year.
Julian Schild Chairman of the Audit Committee On behalf of the Board 18 June 2018 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 49
