DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT and EU Regulation notwithstanding, the Audit Committee will Director at regular intervals.
The Audit Committee assesses NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Jennifer is an experienced digital and e-commerce continue to monitor the effectiveness of the external auditors the findings of the Risk Committee and tasks the internal executive with a background in digital transformation and on an annual basis and will tender in accordance with the new audit with investigating how the Group has responded to DEAR SHAREHOLDER, brand marketing, particularly in the lifestyle and clothing EU regulations.
Accordingly, the Company confirms that it them.
The Audit Committee approves the scope of the internal The role of the Nomination Committee is to establish a sector.
Jennifer is the co-founder of REVL, the events app, and complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets audit function permitting for this to change in order to remain framework for the process of appointment of new Directors to has wide experience working with technology led start-ups.
Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
abreast of any new developments encountered by the Group the Board.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for On 19 February 2018, Anita Balchandani resigned from the KPMG have expressed their willingness to continue and challenges its conclusions.
When appointing the Internal overseeing succession planning requirements, including the Board and associated committees following her acceptance of in office as external auditors.
The Audit Committee has Audit team, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the people identification and assessment of potential Board candidates a new full-time role which does not permit her to hold any nonrecommended to the Board that KPMG LLP be appointed as assigned to it have the necessary experience and expertise to and making recommendations to the Board for its approval.
the Groups external auditors for the 2018 19 financial period effectively fulfil their role.
The performance of internal audit is In addition to the above directorate changes, the and the Directors will be proposing the reappointment of evaluated according not only to the risks it identifies but also NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Nomination Committee considered long-term succession KPMG at the Annual General Meeting in 2018. to the proposals it offers to remedy those risks.
During the period the Nomination Committee was chaired by planning including the timing and the process for recruitment David Bernstein and its other members were Ron Stewart, and transition during the period.
INTERNAL AUDIT WHISTLEBLOWING Andrew Jennings and, prior to her resignation from the The Audit Committee also oversees the Groups internal The Audit Committee is responsible for the review of the Board and associated committee positions on 29 September DIVERSITY audit function, including its role, mandate and audit plan.
Companys procedures for responding to the allegations 2017, Anne Sheinfield.
The composition of the Nomination Boardroom diversity, including gender, is an important Certain internal audit functions were outsourced to PwC.
The of whistle blowers and the arrangements by which staff may, Committee during the year complied with Provision B.
2.1 of consideration when assessing a candidates ability to Group has found that the effectiveness of the internal audit in confidence, raise concerns about possible financial the Code.
contribute to, and complement the abilities of, a balanced has been increased by engaging PwC, as it has allowed the reporting irregularities.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Anne for Board.
We strongly support the principle of boardroom Groups management to access a wider range of expertise her major contribution and dedicated service during her diversity, as evidenced by Anne Sheinfields tenure from than it otherwise would have, and afforded management the time with Ted Baker, in particular her stewardship of the June 2010 to 29 September 2017, and the appointments of opportunity to have its processes and findings challenged by Remuneration Committee.
Jennifer Roebuck and Anita Balchandani.
Ronald Stewart The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating Our Board appointments will always be made on merit The focus of the internal audit is influenced by the risks, Chairman of the Audit Committee candidates for appointment to the Board.
against objective criteria, and this will continue to be the controls and management action plans identified by the Risk 22 March 2018 All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the time priority rather than aiming to achieve an externally prescribed Committee, which are presented to the Board by the Finance commitment considered necessary to enable them to fulfil diversity target.
their responsibilities prior to appointment.
The Group continues to support the development and The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are progression of all employees, with the aim of maintaining and available on the Companys website, www.
achieving diversity throughout all levels of the organisation.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the Directors for the time being to retire each year, and for each David Bernstein CBE Director to retire from office at least once every three years.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee However, in line with Provision B.
7.1 of the Code, the Board 22 March 2018 has determined that all Directors must retire and stand for re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
During the period, Jennifer Roebuck and Anita Balchandani were appointed to the Board on 29 September 2017.
With the assistance of an external search consultancy, Blackbook Executive Search, the Committee considered a shortlist of potential candidates in light of the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board, determining against objective criteria.
Other than the provision of executive search services, Blackbook does not have any other connection with the Company.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 46 47
