DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 3.
TAX The table below details the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the period and the attendance record The Audit Committee has considered a range of tax of each Director.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER, matters including: The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity of the BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION MEETINGS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Groups financial statements and reporting responsibilities and the potential impact of any tax matters on the Groups NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD 9 4 2 1 to maintain its internal control and compliance procedures.
financial statements: This year, the Audit Committee met four times.
In its the Groups tax strategy: and Ray Kelvin CBE 9 N A N A N A meetings it focused on the Groups risk management, internal the impact of Brexit on the Groups tax strategy.
Lindsay Page 9 N A N A N A controls, tax, and external risk factors.
EXTERNAL RISK FACTORS Ron Stewart 9 4 2 1 1.
RISK MANAGEMENT As described in more detail in Principal Risks and Uncertainties Andrew Jennings 9 4 2 1 The Audit Committee regularly reviews how the Board is set out on pages 2226, the Audit Committee is responsible 2 Anne Sheinfield 5 N A 2 1 managing the risks the Group is facing throughout the year.
for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk Jennifer Roebuck 5 2 N A N A This year, the Board has specifically acted to: management and internal controls.
During the period, the 3 Anita Balchandani 5 2 N A N A Audit Committee has worked with the Risk Committee and 1 David Bernstein CBE resigned from the Audit Committee on 29 September 2017. review the robustness of the Groups systems in external advisors to monitor the Groups risk profile and to 2 Anne Sheinfield resigned from the Board on 29 September 2017. response to the growing threat to its cyber security, assess external risk factors.
3 Anita Balchandani resigned from the Board on 19 February 2018. including external penetration testing: COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS Companys Annual General Meeting at which they have the ensure that the Group is prepared for the forthcoming PREPARATION OF THE REPORT The Group attaches considerable importance to the opportunity to ask questions.
General Data Protection Regulation: and This Audit Committee Report has been prepared in accordance effectiveness of its communication with its shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are kept informed of the views of mitigate the foreign currency risks that the Groups with the Code and includes: The full report and accounts are sent to all shareholders and shareholders by the Executive Directors and are provided with global business is exposed to, as a result of recent further copies are distributed to others with potential interest independent feedback from investor meetings.
a description of the significant issues that the Audit in the Groups performance.
Committee considered in relation to the financial Led by the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Audit Committee is satisfied that the risk management statements, and how these issues were addressed: and the Finance Director, the Group seeks to build on a mutual The Companys Articles of Association take account of certain process adopted by the Board has remained robust and an explanation of how the Audit Committee has understanding of objectives between the Company and its provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Directors effective during the period.
assessed the effectiveness of the external audit institutional shareholders by making general presentations conflicts of interest.
These provisions permit the Board to process and the approach taken to the reappointment after the interim and preliminary results: meeting shareholders consider, and if thought fit, to authorise situations where a 2.
INTERNAL AUDIT of the external auditors and information on the length and potential investors to discuss long-term issues Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, The Audit Committee considered the Groups range of internal of tenure of the current audit firm and when a tender and gathering feedback: and communicating regularly with the interests of the Company.
The Board has adopted control systems, including those in relation to: was last conducted: and throughout the year via its investor relations programme.
All procedures for the approval of such conflicts.
The Boards an explanation of how the Groups auditors objectivity shareholders have access to these presentations, as well as powers to authorise conflicts are operating effectively and the inventory and supply chains: and independence are safeguarded when providing to the Annual Report and Accounts and to other information procedures are being followed.
During the period no situational digital branding and PR: and non-audit services.
about the Company through the investor relations website at conflicts of interest were disclosed by the Directors.
the detection of fraud, bribery and corruption.
Shareholders may also attend the Meetings with senior management, internal audit and Having analysed and challenged the results of the internal the external auditors, together with the regular circulation audit at regular intervals, the Audit Committee is satisfied that and review of board papers and financial information, have the Group had suitable and effective internal controls in place enabled the Audit Committee to discharge its duties and during the period.
More information in respect of the Audit Committees role in reviewing internal controls and risk management practices is set out on page 23.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 40 41 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AGENDA ITEMS MARCH JULY OCTOBER NOVEMBER AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP of the Audit Committee because of his extensive, relevant and 2017 2017 2017 2017 During the period, Ron Stewart was Chairman of the Audit necessary financial experience.
The other members were Andrew Jennings Anita Balchandani was a member of the Audit Committee Monitoring the Boards management of risk Y Y Y and, from her appointment on 29 September 2017, from her appointment on 29 September 2017 until her Receiving and reviewing the findings of the internal audit Y Y Y Jennifer Roebuck.
resignation from the Board and associated committee 5.
Tax Provision C. 3.1 of the Code provides that the Audit positions on 19 February 2018.
Identifying and responding to the key tax risks to the Group Y Y Y Committee should comprise of at least three independent The expertise of the Audit Committee members is Overseeing the Groups tax strategy Y Y Y Non-Executive Directors, and that the Chairman of the considered as part of the annual review of the Committees 6.
Internal policies Company should not be a member of the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee Setting the terms of reference of the Audit Committee Y This notwithstanding, David Bernstein CBE, Chairman of the possesses recent and relevant financial experience, sectoral Company, was a member of the Audit Committee until his competence and appropriate levels of independence, and Adopting an appropriate whistle blowing policy Y resignation from that committee on 29 September 2017.
In that its members offer a depth of financial and commercial Setting out the non-audit services provided by KPMG Y this regard, the Board recognises that the Company has not experience across various industries.
Setting out the non-audit spend Y been fully compliant with Provision C. 3.1 of the Code during The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are Investigating whether the Group employs former KPMG staff Y the period but, prior to additional NED appointments being available on the Companys website, www.
External risks made, considered David Bernstein to be a valuable member Reviewing cash flow forecasts Y Setting the level of materiality Y Y KEY MATTERS Assessing how external influences will affect the Groups ability A summary of the key matters considered by the Audit Committee during the period are set out below.
The Audit Committee has to resource Y Y considered matters according to the following broad themes: Monitoring the Groups Cyber Risk Review Y Y Appraising the investment in new stores Y 1.
Financial oversight: Monitoring the foreign currency risk to the Group Y Y 2.
Conduct of the audit: Monitoring the likely impact of Brexit on the market Y Y 3.
Statutory compliance: Monitoring the Groups preparations for compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation Y 4.
Tax: The main areas of judgement and estimation are set out in the accounting policies on pages 8995.
AGENDA ITEMS MARCH JULY OCTOBER NOVEMBER 2017 2017 2017 2017 1.
Financial oversight Reviewing the progress of the Full Year Report Interim Report Y Y Assessing the KPMG Audit Committee Paper summarising the results from the year-end external audit Y Assessing the KPMG Audit Committee Paper summarising the results from the interim review Y 2.
Conduct of the audit Overseeing the KPMG Audit Strategy Y Receiving and reviewing the KPMG Management Letter on control observations Y Monitoring the effectiveness of external auditors Y Y Y Monitoring the independence of KPMG Y Y Y 3.
Statutory compliance Ensuring compliance with mandatory audit rotation and tendering Y Tracking and adopting updates to accounting standards Y Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 42 43 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SIGNIFICANT ISSUES basis of current and projected performance, with growth 4 Future IFRS developments above set monetary thresholds.
In approving any non-audit The Audit Committee received and reviewed reports from assumptions based on Directors knowledge and experience.
The Audit Committee has discussed future accounting services the Audit Committee considers any threats, perceived management and the external auditors setting out the Given the relative immaturity of the brand outside the UK, the developments likely to affect the presentation of the Groups or actual, to the auditors independence taking regard of the significant issues in relation to the financial statements for payback period is typically longer and it is not uncommon for financial statements.
guidance contained in the relevant ethical standards.
the period which related to the carrying value of inventory new stores to make losses in their start-up phase.
Judgement and the carrying value of retail fixed assets being leasehold is therefore applied by the Directors in assessing the trigger TAX GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the improvements and fixtures and fittings.
point for impairment, recognising that losses in the start-up The Finance Director is responsible for the Groups tax policy Audit Committee reviewed: These issues were discussed and challenged with phase are not always indicative of the future performance which is implemented with the assistance of the senior finance management during the period.
They were also discussed with of a particular store.
The future forecasts are inherently and Group tax team.
This is reviewed on an ongoing basis as the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan the external auditors at the time the Audit Committee reviewed judgemental and the key sensitivity includes achieving the part of the regular financial planning cycle.
In addition, the and variations from it: and agreed the external auditors Group audit plan, when growth rates for a particular store and relevant to the specific Groups tax status is reported regularly to the Board and Audit reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the the external auditors reviewed the half year interim financial market.
A change in these assumptions will impact the future Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring course of the audit: and statements in October 2017, and also at the conclusion of the forecasts and managements assessment of the profitability all significant tax matters including the Groups tax policy.
feedback from the businesses evaluating the performance audit of the financial statements for the period.
The assumptions are continually reviewed In accordance with the measures announced in Finance of each assigned audit team.
against current trading performance and external factors that Act 2016, Ted Baker has published on its website details of the 1 Carrying value of inventory impact the fashion industry and consumer demand for specific Groups tax strategy as it relates to or affects UK taxation.
The The Audit Committee held meetings with the external The Directors have used their knowledge and experience regions, including for example macro-economic conditions Groups tax strategy is available on the Companys website at auditors before each Audit Committee meeting to review key of the fashion industry in determining the level and rates of that may impact consumer spending patterns and tourism.
issues within their scope of interest and responsibility.
To fulfil provisioning required to calculate the appropriate inventory The Directors use their knowledge of the fashion industry its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, the carrying values.
Inventory is carried in the financial statements and experience built over many years to set and monitor the EXTERNAL AUDIT Audit Committee reviewed: at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Sales in the fashion assumptions included within the forecasts.
The Audit Committee oversees the Groups relationship with the industry can be extremely volatile with consumer demand The external auditors explained to the Audit Committee external auditors and makes recommendations to the Board the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties changing significantly based on current trends.
As a result there the work they had conducted during the year.
On the in relation to their appointment, reappointment and removal and scope of the audit as set out in the external is a risk that the cost of inventory exceeds its net realisable basis of their audit work, the external auditors reported no and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
auditors engagement letter for the forthcoming year: value.
Management calculates the inventory provision on the inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the The Board and Audit Committee also review the independence the external auditors overall work plan for the basis of the ageing profile of what is in stock.
Provisions are context of the financial statements as a whole, and in the view of the external auditors and consider the engagement of the forthcoming year: considered on a seasonal basis taking into consideration the of the Audit Committee this supports the appropriateness of external auditors to supply non-audit services.
the external auditors fee proposal: various channels that are available to the Group to sell existing the Groups methodology.
The Company has adopted a formal policy on the supply the major issues that arose during the course of the inventory and the estimated prices that can be achieved.
Any of non-audit services by the external auditors.
They may only audit and their resolution: changes to the prices that can be achieved could impact the 3 Misstatements provide such services on condition that such advice does key accounting and audit judgements: provisions that are required to cover the risks associated with Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that they not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical the level of errors identified during the audit: and holding older season inventory.
Adjustments are made where were not aware of any material misstatements or immaterial guidance.
The Audit Committee Chairmans pre-approval is recommendations made by the external auditors appropriate based on Directors knowledge and experience to misstatements made intentionally to achieve a particular required before the Company uses non-audit services that in their management letters and the adequacy of calculate the appropriate inventory carrying values.
The external auditors reported to the Audit exceed 25,000.
Where fees are expected to be above 50,000, managements response.
Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that there Committee the misstatements that they had found in the course this requires approval from the Audit Committee Chairman and have been no significant changes to the approach used to of their work and no material amounts remain unadjusted.
The one other member of the Audit Committee.
The aggregate Consideration is also given by the Audit Committee to estimate inventory provisions from the prior year.
The external Audit Committee confirms that it is satisfied that the external spend is also reviewed by the Audit Committee on an annual the need to include the risk of the withdrawal of the external auditors explained to the Audit Committee the work they auditors have fulfilled their responsibilities with diligence and basis.
Details of the auditors remuneration for audit and nonauditors from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
had conducted during the year.
On the basis of their audit professional scepticism.
audit fees are disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements The Audit Committee considers the reappointment of the work, the external auditors reported no inconsistencies or After reviewing and challenging the presentations and for the period.
external auditors each year and assesses their independence misstatements that were material in the context of the financial reports from management and consulting where necessary The Audit Committee recognises that the independence of on an ongoing basis.
KPMG have been the Companys external statements as a whole, and in the view of the Audit Committee with the external auditors, the Audit Committee is satisfied the external auditors is an essential part of the audit framework auditors since 2001, with a competitive audit tender process this supports the appropriateness of the Groups methodology.
that the financial statements appropriately address the critical and the assurance that it provides.
The Audit Committee last carried out in 2012.
The Audit Committee notes the final judgements and key estimates both in respect to the amounts monitors any non-audit work that is undertaken by the external Order of the Competition and Markets Authority and the new 2 Carrying value of retail fixed assets being leasehold reported and the disclosures.
The Audit Committee is also auditors to ensure that their objectivity and independence is EU Regulation on audit rotation and will ensure compliance improvements and fixtures and fittings satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining not compromised.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the with these requirements in considering when next to tender Leasehold improvements and fixtures and fittings for stores the value of assets and liabilities have been appropriately level of non-audit fees and as noted above pre-approval for any the external audit, which must be completed by the year ended are identified for further impairment testing primarily on the scrutinised, challenged and are sufficiently robust.
such services is required from the Audit Committee Chairman 25 January 2025.
The requirements of the Code and the Order Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 44 45
