STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance is the process by which the board of directors of a company protects shareholders interests and Operation of the Board by which it seeks to enhance shareholder value.
Shareholders The Board is ultimately responsible for framing and hold the directors responsible for the stewardship of a executing the Companys strategy and for closely companys affairs, delegating authority and responsibility monitoring risks.
There is a formal schedule of matters to to the directors to manage the company on their behalf and be speci cally approved by the Board.
It has delegated holding them accountable for its performance.
investment management, within clearly fide ned parameters and dealing limits, to Investec Fund Managers Limited The Board considers the practice of good governance to IFM and the administration of the business to Investec be an integral part of the way it manages the Company Asset Management Limited IAM.
The Board reviews the and is committed to maintaining high standards of financial performance of the Company at Board meetings and sets reporting, transparency and business integrity.
the objectives for the Manager.
As Temple Bar is a UK-listed company the Boards principal The Corporate Company Secretary the Company Secretary governance reporting obligation is in relation to the UK is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board Corporate Governance Code the UK Code issued by the procedures are followed and for compliance with applicable Financial Reporting Council FRC.
However, it is recognised rules and regulations including the AIC Code.
Appointment that investment companies have special circumstances or removal of the nominated representative of the Company which have an impact on their governance arrangements.
Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
An investment company typically has no employees and the roles of portfolio manager, administration, accounting and The Board believes that the content and presentation company secretarial tend to be outsourced to a third party.
of Board papers circulated before each meeting contain The Association of Investment Companies has therefore suf cient information concerning the financial condition of drawn up its own set of guidelines known as the AIC Code of the Company.
Key representatives of IFM attend each Board Corporate Governance the AIC Code issued in February meeting enabling directors to probe on matters of concern or 2013 and updated in 2016, which recognises the nature of seek clari cation on certain issues.
investment companies by focusing on matters such as board Biographies of those directors in of ce at the date of signing independence and the review of management and other of the financial statements are set out on page 1 7.
There were third party contracts.
The FRC has endorsed the AIC Code seven Board meetings, two audit committee meetings and and con rmed that companies which report against the AIC three nomination committee meetings held during the year Code will be meeting their obligations in relation to the and the attendance by the directors was as follows: UK Code and paragraph LR9.8.
6 of the FCAs Listing Rules.
The Board believes that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code will provide better Number of meetings attended information to shareholders.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code which incorporates the UK Code, except 1 John Reeve 412 as set out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating Arthur Copple 7 2 3 to: 2 Nicholas Lyons 301 the role of the chief executive June fide Moller 623 executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function Richard Jewson 723 Lesley Sherratt 723 The Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of Temple Bar, being an externally managed Richard Wyatt 723 investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys 1 retired 24 May 2018 day-to-day management and administrative functions are 2 resigned 7 August 2018 outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations such as an internal audit function.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board notes that a new version of the AIC Code was published in January 2019.
Temple Bar will report against the new Code for the 2019 financial year.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Audit committee an investment trust the Board believes that the contribution and independence of a director is not diminished by long The audit committee is a formally constituted committee service.
of the Board with fide ned terms of reference.
Its role and responsibilities are set out in the Report of the Audit The Board has carefully considered the position of each of Committee on page 2 6.
The Board is satis ed that members the directors seeking re-election and believes it would be of the audit committee have relevant and recent financial appropriate for them to be proposed for re-election.
Each experience, with at least one member having audit or of the directors continues to be effective and to display an accounting experience, to ful l their role effectively and also undiminished enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
have suf cient experience relevant to the sector.
The auditor, who the Board has identi ed as being independent, is invited Diversity to attend the audit committee meeting at which the annual The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to accounts are considered and any other meetings that the take this into consideration during the recruitment and committee deems necessary.
The committee is chaired by appointment process.
However, the Board is committed to Sir Richard Jewson, the Senior Independent Director.
appointing the most appropriate candidate, regardless of gender or other forms of diversity, and therefore no targets Nomination committee have been set against which to report.
A nomination committee comprising all the directors has been established to oversee a formal review procedure Induction and training governing the appointment of new directors and to New directors appointed to the Board are provided with evaluate the overall composition of the Board from time to an induction programme which is tailored to the particular time, taking into account the existing balance of skills and circumstances of the appointee.
Regular brie ngs are knowledge.
This committee is chaired by Mr Copple.
provided during the year on industry and regulatory matters and the directors receive other relevant training as required.
The committee is also responsible for assessing on an annual Individual directors may seek independent advice at the basis the individual performance of directors and for making expense of the Company within certain limits.
recommendations as to whether they should remain in of ce.
Ongoing evaluation Management engagement committee On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its As all the directors are fully independent of the management performance, together with that of the audit and nomination company, the Board as a whole ful ls the function of a committees and the effectiveness and contribution of the management engagement committee.
individual directors, including the Chairman, within the context of service on those bodies.
The review encompasses Independence of the directors an assessment of how cohesively these bodies work as a Each of the directors is independent of any association with whole as well as the performance of the individuals within the Manager and has no other relationships or circumstances them.
In 2016 the Board also employed the services of Board which might be perceived to interfere with the exercise Evaluation, an external evaluation agency, to carry out an of independent judgement.
Two of the five directors independent triennial evaluation of its performance.
On the Sir Richard Jewson and Mrs fide Moller have served on basis of these reviews the Board has concluded that it has an the Board for more than nine years from the date of their appropriate balance of skills and is operating effectively.
The first election, but given the nature of the Company as an next external evaluation will take place in 2019. investment trust and the strongly independent mindset of the individuals involved, the Board is rmly of the view that Shareholder communications all of the directors can be considered to be independent.
Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the In arriving at this conclusion the Board makes a clear Board and the Manager.
The principal medium by which the distinction between the activities of an investment trust and Company communicates with shareholders is through half a conventional trading company.
An investment trust has yearly and annual reports.
The information contained therein no employees or executive directors, the most signi cant is supplemented by daily NAV announcements and by a relationship being with the Manager.
In overseeing this monthly fact sheet available on the Companys website.
relationship it is the view of the Board that long service aids the understanding and judgement of the directors.
The Board largely delegates responsibility for communication The directors have a range of business and financial skills with shareholders to the management company and, through and experience relevant to the direction of the Company.
feedback, both from the Manager and the Companys Sir Richard Jewson is the Senior Independent Director.
stockbroker, expects to be able to develop an understanding of shareholders views.
The Board receives a quarterly Re-election of directors report from the Manager summarising any shareholder Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the correspondence together with any comments about Temple first AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, are Bar on social media.
Members of the Board are always happy subject to retirement on an annual basis.
In addition, the to meet with shareholders for the purpose of discussing appointment of each director is reviewed by other members matters in relation to the operation and prospects of of the Board every year.
Directors are not, therefore, subject the Compan y. to automatic re-appointment.
Non-executive directors are not appointed for speci ed terms.
Because of the nature of TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 24 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Board encourages investors to attend the AGM and The Board has also established a series of investment welcomes questions and discussion on issues of concern or parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to areas of uncertainty.
limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
The safeguarding of assets is entrusted Following the formal AGM proceedings the portfolio manager to an independent reputable custodian with whom the makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the key holdings are regularly reconciled.
investment issues that face the Company.
The effectiveness of the overall system of internal control is Accountability, internal controls and audit reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a system can The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against documents released by the Company, including the Annual material misstatement or loss.
The Board believes that there Report, present a fair and accurate assessment of the is a robust framework of internal controls in place to meet Companys position and prospects.
the requirements of the AIC Code.
The Board con rms that there is an ongoing process for The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the control matters.
Based on the foregoing the Company has a Company in accordance with the FRCs document Guidance continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing on Risk Management, Internal Controls and Related Financial the risks it faces.
This process has been in place for the and Business Reporting.
reporting period and to the date of this report.
The directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order By order of the Board of Directors to facilitate the control process the Board has requested the Manager to con rm annually that it has conducted the Companys affairs in compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations which apply to the Company and to report on the systems and procedures within IFM which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board met on Arthur Copple seven scheduled occasions during the year At each meeting Chairman it received suf cient financial and statistical information to 2 1 February 2019 enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 25
