REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE I am pleased to present the Committees report to shareholders SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED REGARDING THE on the effectiveness of the external audit process and how this ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS has been assessed for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Committee also considered signi cant issues and areas of audit risk in respect of the Annual Report and Financial ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Statements, as outlined below.
The Committee reviewed the The Company has established a separately chaired external audit plan at an early stage and concluded that the Audit Committee the Committee whose duties include appropriate areas of audit risk relevant to the Company had considering and recommending to the Board for approval the been identi ed and that suitable audit procedures had been contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements, put in place to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial and providing an opinion as to whether the Annual Report, statements as a whole would be free of material misstatements.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable and The table below sets out the key areas of risk identi ed by the provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Committee and also explains how these were addressed by it.
the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee also reviews the external auditors report Signi cant Issue How the issue was addressed thereon and is responsible for reviewing and forming an Veri cation of the The Committee reviews reports from its opinion on the effectiveness of the external audit process existence of the service providers on key controls over and audit quality.
Other duties include reviewing the assets in the portfolio the assets of the Company.
Monthly appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and reconciliations are performed by the ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and independent Depositary together with standards, as set out in more detail below.
The Terms of an annual veri cation of the existence Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys of all portfolio holdings carried out website at www.
Any signi cant issues are reported by the Manager to the The Committee meets at least twice a year.
planned meetings are held prior to the Board meetings The valuation of the The Committee reviews detailed portfolio to approve the half yearly and annual results.
investment portfolio valuations on a regular basis throughout the year and receives con rmation from COMPOSITION the Manager that the pricing basis is appropriate.
The audit includes a check All the directors are members of the Committee, which is of pricing back to source data to con rm chaired by Sir Richard Jewson.
The Board considers that that the correct valuation basis has been the members of the Committee have suf cient recent applied in accordance with the accounting and relevant financial experience for the Committee to policies adopted, as disclosed in note 1 to discharge its function effectively.
At least one member of the Financial Statements.
All investments the Committee has audit or accounting experience and the are in quoted securities in active markets, Committee has members with suf cient experience relevant are considered to be liquid and have been to the sector.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of categorised as level 1 within the IFRS 13 the Committee to enable him to be kept fully informed of any hierarchy.
Going concern Having considered the Companys investment objective, risk management RESPONSIBILITIES AND REVIEW OF policies and cash ow projections THE EXTERNAL AUDIT the Committee is satis ed that the Company has adequate resources and During the year the principal activities of the an appropriate financial structure to Committee included: continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
considering and recommending to the Board for approval the contents of the half yearly and annual The veri cation of The Committee reviews income financial statements and reviewing the external investment income forecasts and receives explanations auditors report thereon: from the Manager for any variations or reviewing the scope, execution, results, cost signi cant movements from previous effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the forecasts and prior year numbers.
external auditor: reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval The provision of portfolio valuation, accounting and the audit and non-audit fees payable to the external administration services is delegated to the Companys auditor and the terms of their engagement: Manager, who sub-delegates fund accounting to a third reviewing and approving the external auditors plan party service provider.
The provision of custody services is for the financial year, with a focus on the identi cation contracted to HSBC.
of areas of audit risk, and consideration of the appropriateness of the level of audit materiality adopted: reviewing the quality of the audit engagement partner and the audit team, and making a recommendation to the Board with respect to the re-appointment of the auditor: reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies: and ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and standards.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 26 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDITOR AND AUDIT TENURE The Company con rms that it has complied with the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order.
The Companys current auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has acted in this role since 2003 pursuant to a competitive CONCLUSIONS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL tender process which took place at that time.
There has not REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS been a subsequent tender process.
The appointment of the The production and audit of the Companys Annual Report auditor is reviewed each year and the audit partner changes and Financial Statements is a comprehensive process at least every five years in accordance with professional and requiring input from a number of different contributors.
One regulatory standards in order to protect independence and of the key governance requirements of a Companys financial objectivity and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
statements is for the Report and Financial Statements to The last five yearly partner rotation took place in 2017 when be fair, balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a Caroline Mercer was appointed.
The Committee is aware conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested that the that EU legislation requires listed companies to rotate their Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual auditor every 10 years.
Under the transitional arrangements Report and Financial Statements ful ls these requirements.
for rms where the tenure was between 11 and 20 years on the effective date under the new EU rules, there is a grace As a result of the work performed, the Committee has period of nine years after the enactment of the EU legislation.
concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended Accordingly, Ernst & Young will not be able to act as auditor 31 December 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced to the Company for accounting periods starting on or after and understandable and provides the information necessary 17 June 2023 so the last financial year that they could serve for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, as auditor would end on 31 December 2023.
The Committee business model and strategy.
The Committee has reported intends t o put the audit out to tender in 2020.
Ernst & Young on these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions will not participate in that review but in the meantime the in this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors Committee is satis ed that they remain independent and Responsibilities on page 28. effective.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of auditor.
Other non-audit fees of 2,300 excluding VAT paid to Ernst & Young LLP relate to their services in the electronic ling of tax returns: due to this amount being negligible, the Committee does not consider Sir Richard Jewson this a threat to the auditor's independence.
Chairman ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFICIENCY OF THE EXTERNAL Audit Committee AUDIT PROCESS 2 1 February 2019 To assess the effectiveness of the external audit, members of the Committee work closely with the Manager to obtain a good understanding of the progress and ef ciency of the audit.
Feedback in relation to the audit process, and also of the effectiveness of the Manager in performing its role, is also sought from relevant parties, notably the audit partner and team.
The external auditor is invited to attend the Committee meeting at which the annual accounts are considered, where they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without representatives of the Manager being present.
To form a conclusion with regard to the independence of the external auditor, the Committee considers whether the skills and experience of the auditor make them a suitable supplier of any non-audit service and whether there is any threat to their objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services.
On an annual basis, Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of their relationship with the Company and report to the Board, providing details of any other relationships with the Manager.
As part of this review, the Committee also receives information about policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements from the Companys auditor, including information on the rotation of audit partners and staff, and details of any relationships between the audit rm and its staff and the Company, as well as an overall con rmation from the auditor of its independence and objectivity.
As a result of their review, the Committee has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP is independent of the Company and the Manager.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 27
