Report of the Audit Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the Companys report of the Audit Committee to the shareholders.
This report contains details of the Audit Committees activities and responsibilities along with the effectiveness of the external and internal audit process for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Composition of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Simon Jeffreys Chairman, Hamish Buchan, David Graham and Beatrice Hollond.
Peter Harrison served as Chairman until he retired on 13 July 2017 with Simon Jeffreys appointed as his successor on that date.
The Board considers that the members of the Audit Committee have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience in order for it to perform its functions effectively, noting in particular that the Audit Committee Chairman is a Chartered Accountant and former auditor.
The Directors biographies are given on pages 38to 40 of the Annual Report.
Role and Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee plays an important role in the appraisal and supervision of key aspects of the Companys business.
The Audit Committees main objectives are to: Review and recommend to the Board for approval the Annual and Half Yearly Reports of the Company: Review the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies: Review and challenge the accounting estimates: Review and challenge compliance with appropriate reporting standards and corporate governance requirements: Consider whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: Monitor and review the effectiveness of the controls and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant: Oversee the relationship with the external auditor: Review the quality and content of the Auditors Report: Review and report on the external auditors effectiveness and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process: Review the effectiveness of the internal audit function of Franklin Templeton: and Review other ad hoc items referred to the Audit Committee that have come to the Boards attention.
During the year the Audit Committee, also: Reviewed the accounting and operational procedures for the implementation of treasury shares: Held meetings with the new external audit partner, Stuart McLaren, since the start of his appointment: Reviewed the new disclosures within the Annual and Half Yearly Reports related to alternative performance measures, gearing, the allocation of expenses between revenue and capital, and the update to the AIFM fee.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 57 Report of the Audit Committee continued The terms of reference of the Audit Committee reflect the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or upon request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
Meetings The Committee met three times during the year.
Additionally, in the year under review, the Chairman met with Franklin Templetons Head of Internal Audit to discuss the ongoing strategy for the Companys internal audit engagement.
The Chairman also met with representatives of the Manager on separate occasions to discuss the Companys risk and controls framework and to review the Annual Report.
On these visits he also met with the Companys external auditors.
The Audit Committee Chairman will attend the Companys AGM on 12 July 2018 and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Audit Committees responsibilities.
Performance Evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of performance of the Audit Committee and its individual Directors, further details of this review can be found on pages 42 and 43.
Annual Report and Financial Statements A primary responsibility of the Audit Committee is to review the appropriateness of the Annual and Half Yearly Reports.
This review is assisted by discussion with and presentations from the Investment Manager and the external auditor.
During the year, the work of the Committee included the following significant issues in relation to the Financial Statements: Portfolio Valuation The Directors received regular portfolio reports, liquidity information and presentations from the Manager and the Investment Manager.
The Manager employs global pricing policy procedures compliant with current regulations as disclosed in the accounting policies on pages 76 and 77.
Misappropriation of Assets The Company has appointed an independent custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank to hold its investments.
The Manager reconciles the investment portfolio to the custodian records on a regular basis and regular reporting was provided to the Committee.
58 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Report of the Audit Committee continued Going Concern The Committee considered the nature of the portfolio, the investment objective, income and expenditure, the principal risks of the Company and the continuation vote in July 2019, and assessed whether it was appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements on a going concern basis, and made its recommendations to the Board.
Recognition of Investment Income The Committee received quarterly income forecast reports which detailed the income received and the estimated income due to be received in the financial year.
These forecasts included details of material variances compared with prior forecasts.
Compliance with Section 1158 The Company has been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue and Customs for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April 2012, subject to continuing to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements of The Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
The Committee is satisfied that the Company complies with these conditions and intends to direct its affairs to ensure its continued approval as an investment trust.
Conclusion As a result of the work undertaken, the Committee has concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, and has reported on these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 62.
Internal Control The Company does not have an internal audit function of its own because it has no employees.
The Company relies on the internal audit department of Franklin Templeton to report any material failings or weaknesses.
The Board monitors the risk management and system of internal controls on an ongoing basis and the Company also engages Franklin Templetons internal audit function to carry out a review of specific areas that the Audit Committee deems necessary.
The Audit Committee met representatives of the Manager and Investment Manager, including their internal auditors, risk manager and their compliance officer, who reported as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Manager operate.
The meetings held with the internal auditors are conducted on a private basis, with no representation from the Manager.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 59 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Committee reviewed the Companys risk map which explains in detail the key risks identified by the Company, assessing the likelihood of the risk materialising and the impact that this would have on the Company.
It also identified the key operational procedures and oversight by the Manager and the Board.
During the year, the Audit Committee also reviewed the following significant items: Counterparty Credit Oversight The review considered the risk that the Companys counterparties default on payment or delivery of portfolio and cash transactions.
This included a review of the primary and mitigating controls implemented by the Manager and Investment Manager.
Global Custody Review This annual review evaluated JPMorgan Chase Banks global custody and sub-custody network including the results of the ISAE 3402 report by .
Key Service Providers This review confirmed the value and quality of services provided to the Company by third parties.
External Auditor Assessment and Independence TEMITs external auditor, Deloitte LLP, has been the Companys auditor since 27 August 2009.
The EU regulations on mandatory auditor rotation require an audit tender to take place after ten years, with the option of the incumbent auditor being re-appointed for a further ten years at which point a new auditor must be appointed.
An audit tender will commence next year, ahead of the 2020 financial year end, to coincide with the tenth anniversary of Deloittes appointment.
The audit partner is rotated every five years.
To this end, 2017 was Andrew Partridges last year as audit partner and accordingly he was replaced for the 2018 audit by Stuart McLaren, who had been selected by the Committee in 2017.
To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, the auditor is asked, on an annual basis, to set out the steps that they have taken to ensure objectivity and independence.
The auditors performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise of its duties are monitored during the year by the Audit Committee.
The Committee considered an annual independent Audit Quality Review report by the Financial Reporting Council which monitors audit quality of the major audit firms in the UK.
Deloitte presented their detailed audit plan for the 2018 financial year end at the November 2017 Audit Committee meeting.
The Committee also reviewed Deloittes policies and procedures including quality assurance procedures and independence, and concluded they were satisfactory.
60 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Report of the Audit Committee continued TEMIT is able to rely on the Financial Markets Conduct Overseas FMC Reporting Entities Exemption Notice 2016, issued on 4 November 2016 which exempts it from requirements to prepare audited financial statements in accordance with the New Zealand Financial Market Conduct Act 2013.
This exemption recognises that companies with a primary listing in the United Kingdom prepare Financial Statements and are audited in accordance with UK requirements.
This exempts TEMIT from the New Zealand requirement that firms be audited by a New Zealand unlimited liability entity.
Based on their review, the Committee recommends that Deloitte LLP is re-appointed as the Companys auditor at the upcoming annual general meeting.
Non-Audit Services Performance of any non-audit services must be approved in advance by the Committee and must comply with the guidelines set out in the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
The Committee concluded that the non-audit service fees were appropriate relative to fees paid for audit services.
An engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and is reviewed by the Committee to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditor is safeguarded.
During the year, Deloitte were engaged to perform a review of the Half Yearly Report.
This is assurance related and the Audit Committee believes that Deloitte are best placed to provide this service on a cost effective basis for the shareholders.
The fees paid to Deloitte in the year were as follows: 2018 2017 Audit Services 31,500 30,500 Non Audit Services: Review of Half Yearly Report 5,250 5,100 Percentage of Audit Services 16.7% 16.7% The Committee therefore confirms that the non-audit work undertaken by the auditor satisfies and does not compromise the tests of the auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
Simon Jeffreys Audit Committee Chairman 5 June 2018 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 61
