Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction.
Your Board firmly believes that Board effectiveness review a sound governance framework is The Board carries out an annual evaluation of its effectiveness.
Having essential in supporting management undertaken an external review in 2015 16 and an internal review overseen by in delivery of the Groups strategy me in 2016 17, the 2017 18 review was overseen by Deanna Oppenheimer, our to drive business success.
Senior Independent Director, which encompassed the areas recommended John Allan for improvements in 2016 17.
The results of the review are set out on page Non-executive Chairman 35, together with information about our progress against the 2016 17 review actions.
Succession planning While much of the scrutiny of succession plans for the levels of management Dear Shareholder immediately below Executive Committee has been delegated to the At Tesco, we recognise the importance of good corporate governance Nominations and Governance Committee, the Board remains focused in supporting the long-term success and sustainability of our business.
on ensuring that our talent pipeline is managed to support our long-term We strive to maintain a robust and effective governance framework which strategy.
The Board allocates significant time to discuss succession planning supports the application and execution of our strategy and remains and talent development of the Executive Committee.
During the year, the consistent with our values.
Board further increased its engagement with talent development and Board role and effectiveness conducted a comprehensive review of the Executive Committee talent The core objective of the Board is to create and deliver the long-term pipeline, focusing on their specific development needs against the future success of the Company and long-term returns for shareholders.
This plans and requirements for our business.
The Board reviewed assessments requires the Board to set the Companys strategic aims, ensure that the of a number of senior leaders and discussed their leadership qualities, necessary financial and human resource structures are in place to achieve strengths and areas for development.
From this review, we have developed the Companys objectives, provide oversight of managements performance our medium and long-term succession plans.
in delivering against strategy on a day-to-day basis and set the Companys Remuneration risk appetite.
The Board is aware of its obligations to the Companys Our approach to reward aims to establish a framework that is fair and shareholders and other stakeholders and responds to their needs by balanced, and provide a clear and demonstrable link between remuneration transparent reporting and active engagement.
and delivery of the Groups key strategic objectives, while delivering My role as Chairman is to lead the Board and to ensure that Tesco has a long-term and sustainable returns to shareholders.
This year, we will be Board which works effectively in all aspects of its role.
A key part of that seeking shareholder support for a new remuneration policy, which will role is to ensure the Board works collaboratively with the executive team, formally apply, subject to shareholder approval, from the date of the providing support and guidance to complement and enhance the work 2018 AGM.
undertaken, constructively challenge management when necessary and Culture exercise an appropriate level of rigorous enquiry and intellectual debate.
At Tesco we recognise that culture plays a fundamental role in the delivery This involves having Directors with the right range and balance of skills, of strategy and the Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that our experience and attributes, including a broad diversity of perspectives, activities reflect the culture we wish to instil in our colleagues and other for the Board and for Tesco.
I believe we have this on our Board, enhanced stakeholders to drive the right behaviours.
The Board is committed to by the appointments of Stewart Gilliland and Charles Wilson in March 2018 promoting a strong and positive culture and upholding our well-established following the successful completion of the Booker Group Merger.
core values that underline how we run our business: Governance Nobody tries harder for our customers.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance We treat people how they want to be treated.
Over the last few years, we have worked hard to ensure that Every little help makes a big difference.
good governance is part of our way of thinking and working, and underpins how we conduct ourselves every day.
Our governance framework ensures One of my goals as Chairman is to build a culture in which we fully understand robust, informed and transparent decision-making processes and the our stakeholders customers, colleagues, suppliers, shareholders and our Board encourages open discussion and constructive challenge.
communities and what matters to them, and then act by changing and innovating to meet their needs.
At the Board, there is a clear emphasis on There has been much focus on corporate governance recently and the setting the tone from the top and leading by example.
standards continue to change and evolve.
To ensure sufficient time is devoted to understanding and discussing governance matters, during the year we The Board receives reports throughout the year on stakeholder issues enhanced the remit of the Nominations Committee to include the oversight and concerns, including details of our Group-wide employee engagement of the Groups governance framework and renamed it the Nominations and surveys, which include data on whether colleagues recommend us as a great Governance Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the FRCs proposals place to work and shop, results of our supplier satisfaction surveys and to revise the UK Corporate Governance Code and we will report further on statistics on our customers recommending Tesco as a great place to shop the changes to Tescos governance framework in next years Annual Report, and coming back time and again, which are three of the Big 6 KPIs set out in anticipation of the revised Code becoming effective in the 2019 20 in the Strategic report.
We engage also with our shareholders through a full financial year.
calendar of events and meetings, including the AGM and General Meeting on the Booker Group merger, and the Board receives details of our impact on our communities through the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The Board places great importance on these reports, which help inform our decisions, track progress and monitor culture.
26 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
indb 26 20 04 2018 15:43 Corporate governance Diversity and inclusion The Board has previously highlighted that it is an advocate of diversity in its broadest sense in the boardroom and a supporter of the HamptonAlexander report, which aims to raise the proportion of women on UK Boards to at least one-third by the end of 2020, and the Parker report on ethnic diversity on the Board.
We have also become a member of the 30% Club, which is an organisation that encourages businesses to achieve 30% female representation on their Boards and also in their senior leadership teams.
Board membership reflects a wide range of skills and business experience drawn from a number of industries, which is critical for bringing both the expertise required, and to enable different perspectives to be brought to Board discussions.
The combination of these factors mean that the Board benefits from a diverse range of competencies, perspectives and thoughts, providing an ability to challenge on strategic issues and a dynamic environment for decision-making.
The Board remains of the opinion that appointments to the Board should be made on merit relative to a number of different criteria including diversity of gender, cultural background, independence and personal attributes, alongside the appropriate skill set, experience and expertise.
Although we have not established a formal policy, the Board intends to continue with this approach to diversity in all aspects, while maintaining the principle that all future appointments to the Board must also complement the balance of skills that the Board already possesses.
The role of succession planning in promoting diversity is acknowledged and the Group has a range of policies to help provide mentoring and development opportunities.
The Board recognises the need to create the conditions that foster talent and encourage all employees to achieve their full career potential in the Group.
As part of our overall approach to inclusion we have established an External Advisory Panel to help guide our inclusion agenda and implemented an Inclusion Strategy which aims to ensure that everyone is welcome at Tesco.
We also have a number of well-established colleague networks, including Women at Tesco, BAME at Tesco, Armed Forces at Tesco, Disability at Tesco and Out at Tesco, which provide support to allow colleagues to be themselves at work and develop within Tesco.
Further details of the Groups approach to diversity can be found online at www.
Conclusion Looking forward to 2018 19, the Board and I will continue to focus on the effective oversight of the Company and progress against our purpose of serving shoppers a little better every day.
John Allan Non-executive Chairman Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 27 Corporate governance report continued Board of Directors.
Skills and experience Byron brings broad financial and international experience to the Board, having worked across BP PLC in a variety of commercial, operational and executive roles covering numerous geographies.
Byrons strategic focus and financial experience complements the balance of skills on the Board and makes him ideal for the role of Chair of the Audit John Allan CBE Stewart Gilliland Committee.
He served on the BP PLC board from N R C Non-executive Chairman Independent Non-executive Director 2000 until 2013 and was BPs CFO during much Appointed 1 March 2015 Appointed 5 March 2018 of that period.
He was previously a non-executive Tenure 3 years director of Unilever PLC.
Skills and experience Board meeting attendance 6 6 Stewart has significant business and management External appointments Skills and experience experience in international markets, specifically Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board John has significant board, retail and financial those in Europe, having previously held roles with of Akzo Nobel NV: experience gained from both the commercial and leading consumer-facing companies, including Non-executive director of Anglo American financial sectors.
He was CEO of Exel PLC and when Whitbread and Interbrew.
He held the position PLC: and it was acquired by Deutsche Post in 2005 he joined of Chief Executive of Muller Dairies UK and Ireland Non-executive director of Standard the board of Deutsche Post, becoming CFO in 2007 until 2010.
Prior to joining Tesco, he was Chairman Chartered PLC.
John was Chairman of of Booker Group plc.
Dixons Retail plc during its turnaround period, and External appointments following its merger with Carphone Warehouse was Senior Independent Director of Mitchells Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director & Butlers plc: of Dixons Carphone until 2015.
He was also previously Non-executive director of C&C Group plc: a non-executive director of Worldpay Group PLC, Non-executive director of Curious Drinks Ltd: and National Grid plc, the UK Home Office Supervisory Director of Natures Way Foods Ltd. Board, 3i plc, PHS Group plc, Connell plc, Royal Mail plc, Wolseley plc and Hamleys plc.
Dave Lewis External appointments Group Chief Executive Chairman of Barratt Developments PLC: Appointed 1 September 2014 Chairman of London First: and Tenure 3.5 years Vice President of the Confederation Board meeting attendance 6 6 of British Industry.
Skills and experience Dave has significant experience in brand marketing, Steve Golsby customer management and general management.
Independent Non-executive Director R C Prior to joining Tesco, he worked for Unilever for Appointed 1 October 2016 nearly 30 years in a variety of different roles across Tenure 1.5 years Europe, Asia and the Americas.
He has experience Board meeting attendance 6 6 across many sectors in the UK and overseas, and has been responsible for a number of business Skills and experience turnarounds.
He was previously a non-executive Steve has a wealth of knowledge of operating Mark Armour director of Sky PLC.
internationally, specifically significant leadership Independent Non-executive Director A experience in Asia.
He has a strong background in External appointments Appointed 2 September 2013 consumer marketing and held senior executive Member of the Governance Committee Tenure 4.5 years positions with Bristol Myers Squibb and Unilever, of the Consumer Goods Forum: and Board meeting attendance 6 6 before being appointed President of Mead Johnson Chair of Champions 12.3, a UN programme Skills and experience Nutrition, a leading global infant nutrition company, seeking to add momentum to the achievement Mark has significant strategic planning and financial in 2004.
He was President and CEO from 2008 to of the UN Sustainable Development Target 12.3 expertise, as well as experience of executive 2013 and a non-executive director from 2013 to 2017. by 2030. leadership.
He was CFO of Reed Elsevier Group plc He was also previously a non-executive director of now RELX Group plc and its two parent companies, Beam Inc. Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, from 1996 External appointments to 2012.
This role has provided him with considerable Non-executive director of RMA Group: experience of digital business transition and operating Advisor to Thai Union Group PLC, a global in a multi-channel environment.
Prior to joining leader in the seafood industry: and Reed Elsevier, he was a partner at Price Waterhouse Honorary Investment Advisor to the Thailand in London.
He was previously a non-executive Board of Investment.
director and chair of the audit committee of SABMiller PLC.
Mikael Olsson Independent Non-executive Director R C External appointments Appointed 1 November 2014 Non-executive director of the Financial Tenure 3.5 years Reporting Council: and Board meeting attendance 6 6 Member of the Takeover Panel from 1 May 2018.
Skills and experience Mikael joined the Tesco Board after an extensive career at IKEA Group, holding a variety of senior Byron Grote roles including being a member of the executive N A R Independent Non-executive Director committee from 1995 until 2013 and holding the Appointed 1 May 2015 position of CEO and President from 2009 until Tenure 3 years 2013.
He brings a wealth of retail and value chain Board meeting attendance 6 6 experience as well as knowledge of sustainability, people and strategy in an international environment.
28 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance He was previously a non-executive director External appointments and vice chairman of Volvo Cars AB.
Managing Director of Silver Lake Partners, a leading global technology investment firm: External appointments Board member of Dell and FlixBus: Non-executive director of Ikano S. A. : Trustee of the Natural History Museum: and Non-executive director of Lindengruppen AB: Trustee of the Royal Foundation of the Duke Non-executive director of The Royal and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry.
Schiphol Group: and Member of the Nominations Committee Alan Stewart of Volvo Cars AB.
Chief Financial Officer Appointed 23 September 2014 Tenure 3.5 years Board meeting attendance 6 6 Skills and experience Alan brings to the Board significant corporate finance and accounting experience from a variety Alison Platt of highly competitive industries, including retail, Independent Non-executive Director R banking and travel, as well as executive leadership Appointed 1 April 2016 experience within a listed company environment.
Deanna Oppenheimer Tenure 2 years Prior to joining Tesco, he was UK CEO and CFO of N R C Senior Independent Director Board meeting attendance 6 6 Thomas Cook Holdings, Group Finance Director Appointed 1 March 2012 of WHSmith plc and CFO for AWAS and Marks & Tenure 6 years Skills and experience Spencer plc.
He was previously a non-executive Board meeting attendance 6 6 Alison has extensive experience of the property director of Games Workshop Group plc.
sector and customer service delivery through her Skills and experience role as Chief Executive of Countrywide plc, which External appointments Deanna has significant marketing, brand she held until January 2018.
She also has significant Non-executive director of Diageo plc: management and consumer knowledge and business-to-business and international commercial Non-executive director of Tesco Bank: experience, bringing a broad perspective to the experience, having held a number of senior Member of the Advisory Board, Chartered Board.
She held several senior roles at Barclays plc, positions at Bupa.
Alisons experience as a CEO Institute of Management Accountants: and including Chief Executive of UK Retail and Business enables her to provide challenge and advice to Member of the Main Committee and Chairman Banking and Vice Chair of Global Retail Banking.
the Board across a range of issues.
Alison was of the Pension Committee of the 100 Group Deanna was appointed as Chair of Hargreaves previously Chair of Opportunity Now, which seeks of Finance Directors.
She is also currently to accelerate change for women in the workplace, a non-executive director of the US fresh-prepared as well as a non-executive director of the Foreign food company, Joshua Green Corporation and is & Commonwealth Office and Cable & Wireless the founder of advisory firm, CameoWorks LLC, Communications PLC.
which provides bespoke support to early stage companies.
Deanna was previously a non-executive director of NCR Corporation and Worldpay, Inc.
Her extensive board, investor and commercial experience makes her a strong Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Charles Wilson External appointments CEO, UK & ROI Chair of Hargreaves Lansdown plc: Appointed 5 March 2018 Non-executive director of AXA Group: Non-executive director of Whitbread PLC: Skills and experience Lindsey Pownall OBE Non-executive director of Joshua Green Corp: Charles started his career in 1986 with Procter Independent Non-executive Director C Founder of consumer-focused boutique advisory & Gamble following which he was a consultant Appointed 1 April 2016 firm, CameoWorks LLC: and with OC&C Strategy Consultants and a director Tenure 2 years Senior advisor to Bain & Company.
In 1998 he became an Board meeting attendance 6 6 executive director of Booker Group plc which Skills and experience merged with Iceland plc in 2000.
In 2001 he became Lindsey has substantial experience in food, an executive director of Arcadia Group plc and in grocery and retail brand development, having 2004 he became an executive director of Marks enjoyed a career of over 20 years at Samworth & Spencer plc.
In 2005 he was appointed as Brothers, the leading UK supplier of premium Chief Executive of Booker Group plc.
quality chilled and ambient foods.
She joined the Samworth Board in 2001 and served as Chief Executive between 2011 and 2015.
Lindsey is a passionate advocate of supplier relationships, Simon Patterson customers, colleagues and sustainability which Independent Non-executive Director A directly support Tescos strategy and her role as Appointed 1 April 2016 Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Tenure 2 years Board meeting attendance 6 6 External appointments Non-executive director of Meadow Skills and experience Foods Limited: Committee membership at 10 April 2018 Simon has extensive knowledge of and years Non-executive director of Story N of experience in finance, technology and global Nominations and Governance Committee Contracting Limited: and operations gained in various management and A Audit Committee Non-executive director of Story leadership roles.
He was a member of the founding Homes Limited.
R Remuneration Committee management team of the logistics software C company Global Freight Exchange and has worked Corporate Responsibility Committee at the Financial Times and McKinsey & Company.
Chair of Committee He has previously served on the boards of Skype, Independent Board member MultiPlan, Cegid Group, Intelsat, Gerson Lehrman Group and N Brown Group.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 29 Corporate governance report continued Executive Committee.
Alison Horner Alessandra Bellini Chief People Officer Chief Customer Officer Alison joined the Executive Committee on 1 March 2011.
Alessandra joined the Executive Committee on 1 March 2017.
Responsibilities Responsibilities Alessandra is responsible for building the Tesco brand globally and putting Alison is responsible for setting the people strategy and plans at Tesco, the customer at the heart of everything that we do.
including reward, colleague experience and capability.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Alison joined Tesco in 1999 as a Personnel Manager, and was promoted Prior to Tesco, Alessandra worked at Unilever for over 21 years, latterly as to Personnel Director for Tescos UK stores in 2000.
After that she worked Vice President for the Food Category in North America and Food General running stores and leading change programmes before her promotion Manager for the USA.
Previously, she had a 12-year career in advertising, to Chief People Officer in 2011.
Alison is a Tesco Pension Trustee and working both in Italy and the UK.
An international executive, Alessandra has a member of the Manchester Business School Advisory Board.
held roles in North America, the UK, Italy and Central and Eastern Europe.
Jane Lawrie Tony Hoggett Group Communications Director CEO, Asia Jane joined the Executive Committee on 10 October 2016.
Tony joined the Executive Committee on 1 April 2017.
Responsibilities Responsibilities Tony is responsible for Tescos businesses in Thailand and Malaysia, as well Jane is responsible for rebuilding trust in the Tesco brand and its businesses.
as its joint ventures in India and China.
He also leads our business partnerships Skills and experience across the region.
Jane has over 25 years experience of corporate, financial, colleague and digital communications.
She joined Tesco from Coca-Cola, where she led Skills and experience European public affairs and communications.
She has significant experience Tony joined Tesco in 1990 and has served in a range of leadership roles in in advising businesses on trust and corporate reputation through previous the UK and Asia over the last three decades.
Between 2007 and 2011 he held roles at Diageo and Boots.
the roles of VP South China, as well as President North China, before moving to Turkey as Chief Operating Officer for Tesco Kipa.
In 2011, Tony returned to the UK as Managing Director for Superstores, before becoming Managing Director, Tesco Extra and a board member of Tesco Mobile in 2012.
In 2014, he joined the UK Leadership Team as Retail Director and then was appointed Chief Operating Officer UK in 2016.
In April 2017, Tony was appointed to his current role of CEO, Asia.
Dave Lewis Group Chief Executive Dave joined the Board and the Executive Committee on 1 September 2014.
His full biography appears on page 28.
30 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Jason Tarry Adrian Morris Chief Product Officer Group General Counsel Jason joined the Executive Committee on 1 January 2015.
Adrian joined the Executive Committee on 6 September 2012.
Responsibilities Responsibilities Adrian is responsible for the legal, company secretarial, government Jason is responsible for setting the strategy and policy for the planning, relations, regulatory and compliance functions across Tesco.
ranging, sourcing and supply of the products we sell across the Group.
In addition, he has direct responsibility for managing this for the UK.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Adrian joined Tesco in September 2012 as Group General Counsel.
Prior to Jason joined Tesco in October 1990 on the graduate recruitment programme.
Tesco, Adrian worked at BP PLC as Associate General Counsel for Refining He has held a number of positions in the UK and internationally across both and Marketing and prior to that at Centrica PLC, initially as European Group food and non-food divisions.
Jason became CEO for clothing across the Group General Counsel and then as General Counsel for British Gas.
in 2012 before being appointed as Chief Product Officer in January 2015.
Matt Simister Charles Wilson CEO, Central Europe CEO, UK & ROI Matt joined the Executive Committee on 1 April 2017.
Charles joined the Board and the Executive Committee on 5 March 2018.
Responsibilities His full biography appears on page 29.
Matt is responsible for all of Tescos businesses in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia.
Skills and experience Matt joined Tesco in 1996 as a marketer.
He built on his UK experience with three years as Commercial Director for our Czech and Slovak businesses.
Following which, he returned to the UK to set up our Group Food capability, managing our regional fresh food and Tesco Brand sourcing, buying and inbound supply chains for the UK, ROI, Central Europe and Asia.
In April 2017, Matt was appointed to his current role of CEO, Central Europe.
Alan Stewart Chief Financial Officer Alan joined the Board and the Executive Committee on 23 September 2014.
His full biography appears on page 29.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 31 Corporate governance report continued Governance framework processes that could impede progress.
We retain the agility to get on with running our business while maintaining high standards of governance.
The The Board and Executive Committee operate within a wider governance Governance Framework is designed to safeguard and enhance long-term framework at Tesco.
This ensures that decisions are taken at the right level shareholder value and provide a platform to realise the Groups strategy.
of the business by the colleagues best placed to take them.
Our framework Our system of internal control and risk management arrangements are provides clear direction on decision-making without creating burdensome integral to our Governance Framework.
Roles and Matters reserved for the responsibilities Boards decision Setting the Groups culture, standards and Groups strategic and operating plans.
values, and ensuring that its obligations to Risk appetite.
shareholders and other stakeholders are Long-term plans and budgets.
Financial results, viability statement Determining strategic direction and and governance.
Focusing on matters that consistently add value Capital and liquidity matters.
for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Major acquisitions, mergers and disposals.
The governance and stewardship of the Group.
Ensuring that management maintains a system of internal control and risk management arrangements.
Chairman Senior Independent Director Leads the Board a nd Non-executive Directors Chief Executive promotes a culture of open Acts as a sounding board for Provide sound judgement, Executive leadership and debate between Executive the Chairman and appraises objectivity and experience to day-to-day management and Non-executive Directors.
of Tesco to ensure delivery Promotes high standards of Serves as a trusted intermediary of the strategy determined Contribute to developing strategy.
for other Non-executive Directors Scrutinise and constructively and shareholders, as required.
Ensures the effectiveness challenge the performance of of the Board.
management in the execution Available to investors.
Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nominations and Governance Corporate Responsibility Committee Committee Read more on page 45 Read more on page 40 Read more on page 38 Read more on page 39 Disclosure Committee Risk and Compliance Executive Committee Committee To verify the integrity of Make and implement operational material information and ensure Set and monitor the decisions, while running Tescos compliance with regulations.
implementation and effectiveness of risk and compliance standards across the Group.
32 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance UK Corporate Governance Code compliance At Board meetings, we receive and consider papers and presentations The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 24 February 2018 from the Executive Directors on relevant topics and senior management the Company applied the main principles and complied with the relevant are regularly invited to attend meetings for specific items.
This enables the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued Non-executive Directors to engage with colleagues from across the Group.
by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016.
The Code can be Effective review and decision-making is supported by providing the Board found on the FRC website www.
with high quality, accurate, clear and timely information, including input from advisers where necessary.
If a Director were to have any material concerns, these would be recorded in minutes of meetings, and on resignation Leadership any Non-executive Director having such concerns would provide a written statement to the Chairman and the Board.
Our Board and Committees Board meetings are structured around the following areas: The Board has a collective responsibility to promote the long-term success of the Company and is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that the financial performance and risk: Group is appropriately managed and achieves the strategic objectives it strategy development and planning: sets, in a way that is supported by the right culture, values and behaviours reviews of our businesses: and throughout the Group.
In this performance of its duties, it has due regard other corporate activities, including stakeholders.
to the interests of other key stakeholders and is aware of the potential Details of the proportion of time spent by the Board in 2017 18 in these impact of the decisions it makes.
To support the Boards role in establishing areas are set out below.
the strategic objectives and policies of the Group, it has a well-defined Governance Framework as shown on page 32.
Division of responsibilities Board activity The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between the running The Board is the decision-making body for those matters that are of the Board and running the business of the Group.
The responsibilities considered of significance to the Group owing to their strategic, financial of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and or reputational implications or consequences.
To retain control of these other Directors are clearly defined, as shown in our Governance Framework key decisions, certain matters have been identified that only the Board on page 32, so that no individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
may approve and there is a formal schedule of powers reserved to the The Group Chief Executive is supported by the Executive Committee, Board, as shown in the Governance Framework on page 32. and the Groups senior management structure has been designed to support managements decision-making responsibilities, aligned to personal Specific responsibilities have been delegated to the Board Committees, accountability and delegated authority, while embedding risk and control each of which is responsible for reviewing and dealing with matters within in business decision-making.
its own terms of reference.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board.
The Committee papers and minutes are shared with all Directors.
Board activity in 2017 18 20% 28% 23% 29% Financial performance Strategy development Reviews of Other corporate activities, and risk and planning our businesses including stakeholders Risk management Strategy day UK & ROI Customers, Colleagues, Review of internal controls Portfolio update Central Europe Suppliers & Shareholders Financial results Competitors Asia Succession planning and Annual and half-yearly reports Maximising property value Joint ventures talent management Dividend Technology update Tesco Mobile CEO reports CFO reports Brexit Tesco Bank Litigation reports Customer insight F&F Committee reports dunnhumby Board effectiveness Health and Safety Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 33 Corporate governance report continued Non-executive Directors Effectiveness The Non-executive Directors provide a strong independent element to the Board and a solid foundation for good corporate governance.
Although Board balance all Directors are equally accountable under law for the stewardship of the Effective management and good stewardship are led by the Board.
The Companys affairs, the Non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate Board is currently composed of the Chairman, who was independent on accountability.
They have responsibility for constructively challenging the appointment, three Executive Directors and nine Non-executive Directors.
strategies proposed by the Executive Directors, scrutinising the performance The balance of Directors on the Board ensures that no individual or small of management in achieving agreed goals and objectives, as well as playing group of Directors can dominate the decision-making process and that the a leading role in the functioning of the Board Committees.
Between them, interests of shareholders are protected.
Charles Wilson and Stewart Gilliland the current Non-executive Directors have the appropriate balance of skills, joined the Board on 5 March 2018, following completion of the Booker Group experience, knowledge and independent judgement gained through Merger.
Charles Wilson also joined the Executive Committee.
experience in a variety of business sectors.
Board independence Diversity and inclusion Independent Non-executive Directors form a majority of the Board.
The Board continues to recognise that an appropriate mix of diversity and The Board considers each of its current Non-executive Directors to be skills is key for introducing different perspectives into Board debate and independent in character and judgement.
In reaching its determination for better anticipating the risks and opportunities in building a long-term of independence, the Board has concluded that there are no relationships sustainable business.
As set out in their biographies on pages 28 and 29 and or circumstances likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement in the charts below, each member of the Board offers a range of core skills of our nine Non-executive Directors.
Each continues to provide objective and experience that is relevant to the successful operation of the Group.
In challenge to management and is willing to stand up and defend his or her addition, we believe it is helpful to maintain a blend within the Non-executive own beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the ultimate good of group where some are in full-time employment and others are pursuing a the Company.
Attendance at Board meetings Board Committees Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant Committee The four principal Committees of the Board are: Audit: Corporate meetings.
The Nominations and Governance Committee assesses the Responsibility: Nominations and Governance: and Remuneration.
Board external commitments of Board members to ensure that they each have Committee members are appointed by the Board upon the recommendation sufficient time and energy to devote to their role with Tesco.
The Board is of the Nominations and Governance Committee, which reviews the currently satisfied that the number of appointments held by each Director in composition of each Committee regularly.
The Committee memberships addition to their position with Tesco is appropriate to allow them to fulfil their are spread between the Non-executive Directors, drawing on each of their obligations to the Group.
Following Deanna Oppenheimers appointment as relevant skills and experience.
Chair of Hargreaves Lansdown plc in February 2018, she stepped down as non-executive director of Worldpay, Inc. and she has confirmed that she will Membership details for the Committees can be found in the respective relinquish a further directorship by mid-2018, which will be announced at the Committee reports.
Details of the Directors attendance at Board meetings can be found in their biographies on pages 28 and 29.
of directors In addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Board during the year, there was one further meeting held in respect of the Booker Group Merger.
Financial 6 A number of additional meetings on the merger were held after the year end.
Retail 7 As Charles Wilson and Stewart Gilliland were not appointed until 5 March 2018, they did not attend any meetings in the year, however Strategy 8 they have attended all Board meetings since their appointment.
Marketing 6 During the year, the Chairman met frequently with Non-executive Technology 1 Directors without Executive Directors being present.
Development Gend Gender sp er spl lit it The Chairman regularly discusses training requirements with the Board and arranges meetings or asks for information to be provided, as appropriate.
As part of the ongoing development of Directors, key site visits are arranged and Directors are provided with the opportunity for, and encouraged to attend, training to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant legal, 23% 27% 73 77% % 57% 43% 30% 70% regulatory and financial developments or changes in best practice.
Information and support The Group Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring that Board Board Executive Committee Colleagues procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are complied with, and that due account is taken of relevant codes of best practice.
The Group Male Female Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring communication flows between the Board and its Committees, and between senior management Tenure Nationalities of the Board and Non-executive Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Group Company Secretary and, in appropriate circumstances, may obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, 1 a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy is maintained for all 1 15% 15% Directors and each Director has the benefit of a Deed of Indemnity.
2 38% 31% 9 The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
0-1 yrs 1-2 yrs UK North America 2-4 yrs 4-6 yrs Europe Asia Based on residency.
34 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Conflicts of interest In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association, Directors are required to report actual or potential conflicts of interest to the Board for consideration and, if appropriate, authorisation.
If such conflicts exist, Directors excuse themselves from consideration of the relevant matter.
The Company maintains a register of authorised conflicts of interest which is reviewed annually by the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Induction All new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme tailored to their needs.
The Chairman and Group Company Secretary are responsible for delivering an effective induction programme for newly appointed Directors.
The programme is designed to include briefings from senior managers on key areas of the business, including internal control and risk management processes, the key risks facing the business, financial data, site visits and corporate governance.
The programme is designed to facilitate their understanding of Tesco, the six strategic drivers, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures, as well as providing them with appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public limited company.
The Group has put in place tailored induction programmes for Charles Wilson and Stewart Gilliland.
Performance evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance as well as that of its Committees and individual Directors.
This provides an opportunity to consider ways of identifying greater efficiencies, maximising strengths and highlighting areas for further development, as well as checking that each Director continues to demonstrate commitment to his or her role and each has sufficient time to meet his or her commitments to the Company.
Following an external review in 2015 16 by Independent Board Evaluation, who has no connection to the Group, and an internal review led by the Chairman in 2016 17, the 2017 18 internal review was led by the Senior Independent Director with the support of the Group Company Secretary and Lintstock Ltd.
The 2017 18 evaluation was carefully structured but pragmatic, designed to bring about a genuine debate on issues that were relevant, check on progress against matters identified in the previous evaluation and assist in identifying any potential for improvement in the Companys processes.
The 2017 18 performance evaluation process is set out below.
2017 18 performance evaluation Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 Completion of a detailed Senior Independent Preparation of a Results presented and Action plan and key areas questionnaire to assess Director conducts composite report.
discussed at Board and of focus approved by the effectiveness of the one-to-one interviews with Committee meetings.
Board, its Committees and each Director based on the individual Directors.
The results of the 2017 18 evaluation were presented to the Board in February 2018.
Having assessed the findings of the evaluation, the Directors were satisfied that the Board and each of its Committees were performing well, with high scores recorded across a range of performance measures.
Details of the outcomes of the 2016 17 and 2017 18 evaluations, as well as the actions taken in 2017 18 to address the 2016 17 outcomes are shown below.
Details of the actions taken to address the 2017 18 outcomes will be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
2016 17 evaluation outcomes 2017 18 actions 2017 18 evaluation outcomes Create more opportunities for the testing and Through the year a number of updates were Further improve the oversight of risk.
provided on strategic developments agreed at the Board strategy sessions.
Further increase the oversight of During the year the Board and Nominations and Ensure the effective monitoring of the succession planning.
Governance Committee reviewed succession plans integration of Booker Group.
and the talent pipeline for the Board, Executive Committee and the level below the Executive Committee.
Regular reviews are incorporated into forward planning agendas.
Consider ways to improve the focus of the In October 2017, the Corporate Responsibility Identify ways to further engage on Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Committee approved the Little Helps Plan, setting technology issues.
out a number of targets and actions.
The Senior Independent Director also led the Non-executive Directors in evaluating the performance of the Chairman, with the Chairman continuing to show effectiveness in leadership.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 2018 19 review will be conducted by an external consultant.
Election and re-election of Directors In accordance with best practice and the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will submit themselves for election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM, including Charles Wilson and Stewart Gilliland.
More information is provided in the Notice of Meeting.
Code of Business Conduct All colleagues are required to comply with the Code of Business Conduct, which is intended to help them put Tescos principles into practice.
This clarifies the basic rules and standards colleagues are expected to follow and the behaviour expected of them.
Colleagues must complete mandatory Code of Business Conduct training and annually attest to compliance with the Code.
Designated colleagues are required to complete additional mandatory training, including on anti-bribery and corruption laws, data protection laws and supplier legislation.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 35 Corporate governance report continued Relations with our stakeholders The Board recognises its responsibility to take into consideration the needs and concerns of our stakeholders as part of its discussion and decision-making processes.
The Board understands that maintaining strong stakeholder relationships is the key to building a sustainable business.
The following provides an insight into the ways in which the Board is engaged with our stakeholders: Shareholders The Board is committed to maintaining open and constructive dialogue with our shareholders, whether institutional, private or employee shareholders.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for ensuring that such engagement takes place.
More information can be found opposite.
Customers Suppliers The Board is dedicated to ensuring that we The Board recognises that building trusted maintain our core purpose to serve shoppers a partnerships with our suppliers is critical and little better every day.
Ensuring that customers this is one of the six key performance measures recommend us and come back time and again for the whole business.
The Board maintains is one of our six key performance measures, engagement through regular reporting of the which the Board monitors closely through results of our supplier viewpoint surveys, to regular reporting.
ensure that the progress we have made over the past three years continues.
Community Colleagues The Board is mindful of the impact that our Our colleagues are the heart of our business business has on the communities it operates in.
and help to communicate the values of our During the year, the Corporate Responsibility business to our customers every day.
We have Committee launched our new strategy, the Little Helps various tools to ensure that our Board is fully Plan, which sets out how Tesco plans to follow our engaged with our colleagues, including our core value every little help makes a big difference in Group-wide employee engagement surveys, three main areas: our people: our products: and our the results of which are monitored by the places.
In addition, members of the Board have Board, and members of the Board undertaken visits to beneficiaries of both the Tesco regularly visit our stores to engage Bags of Help scheme and the Tesco Community directly with colleagues.
Food Connection, to see the work being undertaken as a result of Tesco supporting these initiatives.
36 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Shareholder engagement During the year numerous activities were undertaken to engage with our shareholders: Meetings, roadshows and conferences.
The Executive Directors, Chairman and Senior Independent Director held Our website www.
com provides information to shareholders regular meetings with institutional investors throughout the year, to discuss on understanding the business, results and financial performance, and the governance and strategy of the Group.
These meetings are in addition shareholder meetings.
to the roadshows organised following our full-year and half-year results.
Video recordings of the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial All Non-executive Directors are able to attend scheduled meetings with Officer commenting on results statements were uploaded to our website major shareholders and do so if requested.
during the year, along with the results presentations and transcripts of analysts calls.
The Investor Relations team held further investor meetings throughout the year and attended a number of store tours and conferences.
Following the announcement of the Booker Group Merger, a dedicated section of our website was made available containing details of the terms The Board receives regular updates from the Investor Relations team on of the merger and presentations.
investor sentiment and analyst commentary to ensure that all Non-executive Directors develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
In October 2017 we held a stakeholder event to launch our Little Helps Plan.
We also engaged socially responsible investors by holding calls to discuss various issues and responding to queries.
The Chairman and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee held We invited our institutional shareholders and analysts to attend meetings and calls to consult with major investors on our proposed presentations following our full-year and half-year results announcements.
The presentation slides and a webcast of the presentations were made available at www.
com along with transcripts of all the results presentations and trading statement conference calls.
The AGM was held on Friday 16 June 2017 at the ExCeL Centre in London.
The Treasury team holds biannual formal review meetings with all of our At the meeting, all shareholders were given an opportunity to question relationship banks and maintains regular contact with them.
In addition, the Board on the business being proposed.
The results of voting at the AGM it held calls with the three credit rating agencies following the results were published on our website www.
announcements and the Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasury Director met with each of the credit rating agencies during the year.
The AGM for this year will be held at 2.00pm on Friday 15 June 2018 at the ExCeL Centre in London.
Full details are included in the Notice of Meeting.
Following the full-year and half-year results, the Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasury Director held conference calls with fixed income investors.
On Wednesday 28 February 2018, we held a General Meeting at etc.
venues St Pauls in London to approve the share and cash merger with Booker Group plc.
Shareholders were given the opportunity to question the Board on the merger.
The results of voting at the General Meeting were published on our website www.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 37 Corporate governance report continued Nominations and Governance Committee.
We recognise the importance of a Proper planning for Board and senior management succession, and refreshing diverse and inclusive culture to the and selecting the right individuals for the Board and senior management delivery of the Groups strategy.
positions from a diverse talent pool are key issues for the Committee.
John Allan It is essential in ensuring a continuous level of quality in management, in Non-executive Chairman avoiding instability by helping mitigate the risks which may be associated with unforeseen events, such as the departure of a key individual, and in promoting diversity.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the status of succession planning for the Non-executive Directors and the Executive Committee, as well as the pipeline of talent below the Executive Committee.
In March 2018, we welcomed Charles Wilson and Stewart Gilliland onto the Nominations and Governance Committee attendance Board, following the successful completion of the Booker Group Merger.
Number of scheduled Meetings They both bring a wealth of commercial and retail experience to the Board, Member meetings eligible to attend attended specifically in the wholesale sector, and will bolster the capabilities and John Allan 3 3 effectiveness of the Board.
Deanna Oppenheimer 3 3 Byron Grote 3 3 The Committee also reviewed the independence of each Non-executive Director, all Directors conflicts of interest, the time commitments of each Nominations and Governance Committee responsibilities Non-executive Director and the balance of skills, knowledge, experience The responsibilities of the Nominations and Governance Committee include: and diversity on the Board prior to recommending to the Board that each Director stand for election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Nominating and succession review of the structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge, During the year, the Committee received regular updates on developments experience and diversity of the Board and its Committees and make in corporate governance reform.
The Committee was provided with detailed recommendations to the Board regarding any changes: reports on the revised UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the identification and nomination of candidates for appointment to the Board: and Financial Reporting Council for consultation in December 2017 and proposals review of succession planning and talent management over the longer term for the Groups approach to the changes.
We will report further on the for Directors and senior management.
changes to Tescos governance framework in next years report, following Governance the anticipated publication of a revised UK Corporate Governance Code review and approve changes to the Groups Governance Framework, in June 2018, which will become effective for the 2019 20 financial year.
including monitoring the Groups compliance with applicable legal, Having undertaken an external evaluation of the Board in 2015 16, the regulatory and listing requirements: Committee agreed that the 2017 18 Board evaluation should be conducted make recommendations to the Board on the independence of internally.
A questionnaire was sent out in December 2017 by the Group Non-executive Directors: Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Director also conducted keep under review the time commitment expected from the Chairman one-to-one interviews with Directors as well as conducting the annual and Non-executive Directors: and evaluation of the Chairman.
Having assessed the findings at the February ensure an effectiveness review is conducted annually of the Board, 2018 Board meeting, the Directors were satisfied that the Board and each its Committees and Directors.
of its Committees continue to operate effectively.
More details on the The Committees terms of reference are available at www.
com evaluation are set out on page 35 of the Corporate governance report.
Dear Shareholder During the year the Committee went through a significant transformation in terms of its focus and responsibilities.
In light of the increased focus on John Allan corporate governance matters, it was agreed to extend the Committees remit Nominations and Governance Committee Chair to include oversight of the Groups corporate governance framework and rename it the Nominations and Governance Committee.
The terms of reference Key activities of the Committee were updated to reflect these additional responsibilities.
During 2017 18, the Committee considered, amongst other matters, the following: The Committee held three scheduled meetings during the year, which were attended by all members, primarily focusing on diversity, succession succession planning for the Non-executive Directors and planning, talent management, inclusion and corporate governance.
Executive Committee: reviewing the time commitments and independence of the Our policy for the composition of the Board is to support diversity in its Non-executive Directors: widest sense.
We wish to attract Board members with a diverse range of assessing the Groups diversity and inclusion strategies: backgrounds who will contribute a wealth of knowledge, understanding monitoring developments in corporate governance reform: and experience of the communities where Tesco operates.
The Committee the extension of Mikael Olssons appointment following three years strongly believes that diversity throughout the Group and at Board and of service on the Board, in accordance with Non-executive Directors senior management level is a driver of business success.
Our gender diversity letters of appointment: policy for the Board is to aim to have at least 33% female representation on making a recommendation to the Board regarding the election and the Board by 2020.
During the year we had 27% female representation on the re-election of Directors at the 2018 AGM: Board, until the appointment of Stewart Gilliland and Charles Wilson in March reviewing the results of the annual performance evaluation of the 2018, when it declined to 23%.
We will look to address this in line with our Committee: and policy.
We ensure that diversity is considered as part of any shortlist process reviewing and updating the Committees terms of reference.
drawn up by external search consultants.
38 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The Little Helps Plan aligns with our It is recognised that we need to work together across society to build a core value every little help makes a big truly sustainable future and the business fully supports global efforts to build difference and recognises the unique this future, including the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris opportunity that Tesco has through Climate Agreement.
The leadership that Dave Lewis has shown as Chair of its global reach to make a difference Champions 12.3 demonstrates the commitment by the business to work with to our customers, colleagues and stakeholders to reach the UN Sustainable Development Goal target of halving communities around the world.
I am proud that in September we announced that Lindsey Pownall 24 of our largest food suppliers had agreed to adopt this goal and to start to Non-executive Director publish food waste data for their own operations within the next 12 months.
In 2017, the business announced tougher new science-based climate change Corporate Responsibility Committee attendance targets.
The new targets ensure that our supply chain and operations support the Paris Climate Agreement to limit global temperature rises Number of scheduled Meetings Member meetings eligible to attend attended to 1.5 degrees Celsius this century, as well as our long-term ambition to Lindsey Pownall 3 3 become a zero-carbon business.
John Allan 3 3 The Committee has agreed an ongoing programme to regularly review Steve Golsby 3 3 areas of the Little Helps Plan through deep-dive sessions and measuring Mikael Olsson 3 3 performance against the plans targets.
It is also intended that the Deanna Oppenheimer 3 3 Committee will experience the work being done by the business through off-site visits and by meeting stakeholders in the future.
At the invitation of the Committee Chair the Group CEO and the Group Communications Director attended all of the Committee meetings.
More information on the Little Helps Plan is provided on pages 16 to 21 of this report and online at www.
Corporate Responsibility Committee responsibilities The responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee include: approving and monitoring a strategy for discharging the Groups corporate and social responsibilities in such a way as to build trust and command Lindsey Pownall respect and confidence: Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair overseeing the Groups conduct with regard to its corporate and societal obligations as a responsible corporate citizen: Key activities overseeing the creation of appropriate policies and supporting measures: A summary of some of the key areas considered at each meeting is set out below: identifying and monitoring those external developments that are likely to have a significant influence on the Groups reputation and or its ability July 2017 to conduct its business appropriately as a good corporate citizen and Little Helps Plan roadmap and KPIs The Committee gave feedback on the review how best to protect that reputation or that ability: and draft Little Helps Plan and the individual targets.
Health month The Committee reviewed the initiative launched in May 2017 overseeing the Groups engagement with external stakeholders and to encourage helpful little swaps for customers and employees.
Food waste The Committee reviewed the business progress on delivering The Committees terms of reference are available at www.
com the UK food waste target and progress being made in Central Europe, Thailand and Malaysia on food waste.
Dear Shareholder October 2017 I became Committee Chair in July 2017 and I am pleased to report on the Packaging The Committee received information on this foundation area significant progress that has been made this year in developing our new of the Little Helps Plan and the strategy to achieve the packaging targets.
Responsible sourcing The Committee reviewed the business ambition to corporate responsibility strategy, the Little Helps Plan.
lead the industry in addressing the sustainability challenges in our supply chain.
The Little Helps Plan sets out how Tesco plans to follow the philosophy that Local campaigns The Committee received information on the impact of small actions add up to make a big difference, which is expressed through the Groups engagement with local communities, in particular on the the Groups core value every little help makes a big difference.
The Little success of the Bags of Help scheme in the UK and the similar schemes being operated in the ROI and Central Europe.
Helps Plan is made up of three pillars: our people, our products and our places and is underpinned by our foundation commitments on packaging, February 2018 climate change, health and safety, business ethics, data security and data Climate change The Committee received information on this foundation privacy.
These areas are core to our business model and the delivery of the of the Little Helps Plan.
Funding for key projects The Committee reviewed the use of the funds plan is embedded in the day-to-day business operations.
We recognise that released by the forfeiture of Tesco PLC shares undertaken in 2017 and the Little Helps Plan is interlinked with the principal risks faced by the designated for corporate responsibility activities.
business and is integral to the long-term success of the Group.
The Committee reviewed an initial draft of the plan in July 2017 and received Terms of reference regular updates on the plans progress, prior to approving it in October 2017.
In July 2017, Tesco PLC adopted new terms of reference for the Committee.
I attended an event to launch the Little Helps Plan in October 2017 with some The number of meetings increased to three per year and the scope of the of Tescos key stakeholders.
It was positive to see so many stakeholders Committee was expanded to include reviewing: attend and engage with the business on the ideas and ambitions behind the progress of the corporate responsibility strategy against agreed Little Helps Plan.
performance measures: and Throughout the year the Committee has received presentations from expenditure and other commitments by the Group on corporate donations, subject matter specialists within the business to understand the work that community programmes and charitable support.
is already being done and will be done on each of the Little Helps Plan pillars Committee effectiveness review and foundations.
Due to the diverse background and experience of the It was concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
Committee members, we have been able to provide a global perspective and insights to discussions on the development and roll-out of the strategy, in particular sharing experiences of different social, political and economic landscapes relevant to our international markets.
It is acknowledged that, with the majority of the Groups customers being in the UK, progress against the plan will begin in the UK and this is reflected in how some of the KPIs have been set with appropriate country-specific plans to be developed as necessary.
Nevertheless, we are committed to making progress on all areas of the Little Helps Plan in all of our markets and I look forward to the Committee helping to shape and monitor the business progress over the next year.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 39 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee.
The Committee has continued to Audit Committee membership play a key role within the Tesco PLC The Committee comprises Byron Grote, as Chairman, Mark Armour governance framework to support and Simon Patterson.
All of the Committee members are independent the Board in matters relating to Non-executive Directors and the Board is satisfied that Byron Grote and financial reporting, internal control Mark Armour have significant, recent and relevant financial experience for and risk management.
the purposes of the Code and are competent in accounting and auditing.
Byron Grote In addition, and as required by the revised Code which was issued in Non-executive Director April 2016 and applied to the Company from its 2017 18 financial year, the Board considers that the Committee members as a whole have competence relevant to the Companys sector, in addition to general management and Audit Committee attendance commercial experience.
The expertise and experience of the members of Number of scheduled Meetings the Committee is set out in each of their biographies on pages 28 and 29.
Member meetings eligible to attend attended Byron Grote 6 6 Robert Welch is appointed as Secretary to the Committee.
Other Mark Armour 6 6 regular attendees at Committee meetings include the Chairman, Group Simon Patterson 6 6 Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Audit and Risk Officer, Group Planning and Reporting Director and representatives of Audit Committee responsibilities the external auditor.
The Committees terms of reference were updated in April 2018, and its Audit Committee meetings responsibilities include: The Committee met six times in the 2017 18 financial year, with each meeting monitoring the Groups financial reporting processes: having a distinct agenda to reflect the annual financial reporting cycle of review, and challenge where necessary, of the actions and judgements the Group and particular matters for the Committees consideration.
of management in relation to the interim and annual financial statements The Committee has a forward-looking planner, which is designed to ensure before submission to the Board: that its responsibilities are discharged in full during the year.
This planner is review of the interim and annual financial statements and announcements developed with the Group Company Secretary and its content regularly relating to the financial performance of the Group: reviewed with management and Deloitte.
It is developed to meet the consideration of the appointment of the external auditor, their reports changing needs of the Group as the year progresses.
to the Committee and their independence, including an assessment The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board following each meeting of their appropriateness to conduct any permitted non-audit work in and Committee meetings are generally scheduled close to Board meetings in accordance with the Groups non-audit services policy, review of policy order to facilitate an effective and timely reporting process.
and appropriateness: review and agreement with the external auditor as to the nature Committee members met in private following each Committee meeting and scope of the external audit and approving the audit fee: and also held separate private sessions with the Chief Audit and Risk Officer review of the Groups declaration of any proposed interim and and the external auditor, in order to provide additional opportunity for final dividends: open dialogue and feedback without management present.
The Committee review and monitoring of the internal controls and risk management Chairman also meets with the Chief Financial Officer on an ad hoc basis and processes of the Group, including key financial, operational and compliance prior to each Committee meeting.
controls, and their effectiveness: Key activities review of the internal audit programme and ensuring that the Internal A summary of the key matters considered at each meeting, is set out below: Audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Group: April 2017 review of the Groups arrangements by which employees and contractors preliminary results and Annual Report 2016 17, including confirmation may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial of Code compliance and a comprehensive report from the Groups reporting or other matters: Disclosure Committee on fair, balanced and understandable reviews consideration of managements response to any major external or internal viability statement and going concern review, including the underlying audit recommendations: and models, assumptions and scenario testing review of business continuity plans and processes for the prevention key accounting judgements relating to the 2016 17 financial results external audit: Deloitte year-end final report and non-audit services of fraud, bribery and corruption.
external and internal audit effectiveness reviews The Committees terms of reference are available at www.
com Group compliance and whistleblowing update, including GSCOP update Tesco Bank update internal audit update Dear Shareholder The Committee has continued to play a key role within the Tesco PLC July 2017 governance framework to support the Board in matters relating to financial key accounting matters, including IFRS 9 and exceptional items approach update reporting, internal control and risk management.
As well as the key activities treasury, funding and corporate simplification update undertaken or overseen by the Audit Committee during the year through technology: IT and information security controls update a periodic and structured rolling forward-looking planner, this report transformation and service model update shares insights into our discussions.
Full details of the matters discussed privacy compliance update, including privacy transformation plans at Committee meetings is set out later in this report.
Looking ahead, insurable risk review these areas will remain a key focus in 2018 19.
Group Treasury Policy update external audit: audit plan, approval of audit fee, non-audit services, management letter observations from 2016 17 audit internal audit update, including Tesco Bank Byron Grote Audit Committee Chair 40 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance September 2017 The Committee is responsible for assisting the Boards oversight of the interim results statement and going concern review, including a quality and integrity of the Companys financial reporting and the Companys comprehensive report from the Groups Disclosure Committee accounting policies and practices.
During the year, the Committee has and validation of managements representations to Deloitte continued to receive updates regarding the Groups ongoing finance dividend proposal transformation programme and the actions taken to address observations key accounting matters, including key financial controls update and the raised by Deloitte in its letter to management following completion of the Groups preparations for new reporting requirements, i. e. IFRS 9 Financial 2016 17 audit.
Recommendations have been implemented to further Instruments: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers: and IFRS 16 enhance the Groups financial reporting systems and controls environment.
Leases implementation and basis of adoption as further described in The Committee has also received regular updates, including from Group Note 1 to the financial statements Group compliance update, including whistleblowing, anti-bribery and Audit and Advisory and the UK and ROI and International Finance Directors, fraud, gifts and entertainment, privacy transformation plans, GSCOP on the development and effectiveness of the Groups key internal compliance and progress towards General Data Protection Regulation financial controls.
compliance by May 2018 The Committee continues to focus on commercial income and inventory UK and ROI and International Finance Director reports and key financial controls update controls and receives regular updates from Group Audit and Advisory on the treasury, funding and corporate simplification update, including the work that is being undertaken to review and strengthen the Groups review and consideration of the bond buy-back programme processes in these areas.
risk, control and assurance framework, risk appetite and internal control effectiveness, including in-depth review of specific principal risk areas In relation to the financial statements, the Committee reviewed and external audit: Deloitte interim report and non-audit services recommended approval of the half-year results and these annual financial internal audit update statements, considered impairment reviews, the viability and going concern November 2017 statements and their underlying assumptions, reviewed proposed dividend risk, control and assurance update, including principal risk review process and levels, reviewed corporate governance disclosures and monitored the the development of our three new principal risks set out on pages 22 to 25 statutory audit.
As part of its review of the financial statements, the IFRS 16 update Committee considered, and challenged as appropriate, the accounting pensions review policies and significant judgements and estimates underpinning the financial tax update, disclosures and transparency publication, including country statements.
Details regarding the significant financial reporting matters and by country reporting and UK tax strategy how they were addressed by the Committee are set out later in this report.
technology: IT and information security controls update transformation and service model update The Committee also reviewed the disclosures regarding the Companys viability statement: modelling and assumptions alternative performance measures APMs having regard, in particular, to treasury, funding and corporate simplification update the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures issued by the European internal and external audit updates including Deloitte non-audit services Securities and Markets Authority ESMA in October 2015.
The Companys non-audit fees policy update 2017 Annual Report was selected by the Financial Reporting Council FRC policy on employment of former auditor employees internal audit charter and 2018 19 plan for a thematic review into the use of APMs in corporate reporting.
The external audit: Deloitte update on audit plan and non-audit services FRC raised no issues in relation to the Groups APM disclosures and extracts January 2018 of the Company's 2017 Annual Report were selected for inclusion in their consideration of the Groups cash and share merger with the Booker Group, November 2017 report as examples of best practice.
The Committee specifically, to review and approve: the profit forecast for the Group and reviewed the FRCs findings and continues to monitor FRC and ESMA financial expectations for the combined group: risk factors: pro-forma guidance on APM disclosure.
financial information & reconciliation: operations and financial review: and quantified financial benefits statements reports and confirmations The Committee carried out a number of in-depth reviews of specific February 2018 principal risk areas this year and reported its findings and recommendations risk, control and assurance framework update, comprising principal risks to the Board.
The Committee received updates from management in relation review, risk roadmap, risk management and controls update, risk appetite to the Groups transformation, technology, information security, data statement, Code compliance and internal control effectiveness review, privacy, treasury, tax, pensions, insurance and key compliance risks and further detail can be found on page 43 of this report the controls and mitigating actions employed in each of these areas.
The Group tax update Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing technology update arrangements and reviewed compliance with the Groceries Supply Code finance transformation update of Practice GSCOP.
key accounting judgements relating to the 2017 18 financial results treasury: solvency and liquidity funding plan The Committee received update reports during the year from the corporate simplification update Tesco Bank Audit Committee, the Disclosure Committee and the Group internal audit update, including Tesco Bank Risk and Compliance Committee.
Group Audit and Advisory provided regular external audit: Deloitte early warning report and non-audit services updates on its work, including findings from its internal audit programme Committee effectiveness review and the status of management actions to address such findings.
Reports April 2018 from Deloitte, as external auditor, were also presented and considered at preliminary results and Annual Report 2017 18, including confirmation each Committee meeting.
of Code compliance and a comprehensive report from the Groups Disclosure Committee on fair, balanced and understandable reviews Reports were also requested on ad hoc matters as they arose.
One key viability statement and going concern review, including the underlying matter considered by the Committee this year was the merger with the models, assumptions and scenario testing Booker Group and the inclusion of Booker synergy realisation and integration dividend proposal as one of our principal risks.
Further details regarding this risk can be found key accounting judgements relating to the 2017 18 financial results, including IFRS 16 and controls update in the principal risks and uncertainties section on page 24. external audit: Deloitte year-end final report and non-audit services external and internal audit effectiveness reviews review of the Committees terms of reference Group compliance and whistleblowing update, including GSCOP update Booker integration update Tesco Bank update service model update property valuation update internal audit update Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 41 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee continued Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Significant financial statement reporting issues Recognition and The Committee reviewed managements assessment The Committee considered a number of significant issues in the year, taking disclosure of of the controls that exist over the recognition of into account in all instances the views of the Companys external auditor.
See Notes 1 and 20 to the The issues and how they were addressed by the Committee are detailed below: financial statements.
Exceptional items The Committee considered the presentation of the Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Group financial statements and, in particular, the Going concern basis The Committee reviewed managements assessment appropriateness of the presentation of exceptional for the financial of going concern and long-term viability with items.
The Committee reviewed the nature of items statements and consideration of forecast cash flows, including identified and concurred with management that viability statement sensitivity to trading and expenditure plans and the treatment was even-handed and consistently potential mitigating actions.
The Committee also applied across years and appropriately presented.
considered the Groups financing facilities and Consideration was also given to the quality of future funding plans.
Based on this, the Committee earnings within underlying results.
See Note 4 to confirmed that the application of the going concern the financial statements.
basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate, and recommended the New accounting The Committee considered the implementation of approval of the viability statement.
standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, and IFRS 16 Leases, Fixed asset impairment The Committee reviewed and challenged considering project approach and progress, transition and onerous lease managements impairment testing of property approach and impact assessments as known to date.
provisions and technology assets and estimate of onerous lease provisions.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of key assumptions and methodologies for both value in use models and fair value measurements.
This included challenging projected cash flows, growth rates, discount rates and the use of independent third party valuations and considering any impacts of the uncertainties arising from Brexit.
The Group has recognised a 182m net reversal of impaired PPE assets, together with an onerous lease provision net charge of 108m and a 24m net loss for software and other intangible assets.
See Note 10 to the financial statements for software and other intangible assets impairment, Note 11 for fixed assets impairment and Note 25 for property provisions.
Goodwill impairment The Committee reviewed managements process for testing goodwill for potential impairment and ensuring appropriate sensitivity disclosure.
This included challenging the key assumptions: principally cash flow projections, growth rates and discount rates.
The Group has not recognised any goodwill impairment in the year.
See Note 10 to the financial statements.
Valuation of The Committee reviewed managements China associate and assessment of the valuation of the Groups China India joint venture associate, Gain Land, and India joint venture, Trent Hypermarket Limited, covering the methodology and assumptions used by management, including latest market information, in determining the fair value of the investment.
This included review of Gain Lands and Trents projected cash flows, growth rates and discount rates used and the external market indicators to include in the valuation.
The carrying value was supported by the valuation.
See Note 13 to the financial statements.
Pensions The Committee reviewed and challenged the estimates used by management in valuing pension liabilities, principally the discount rate, including the change in methodology for calculation of the discount rate adopted in the year.
See Note 27 to the financial statements.
Business and The Committee considered the key judgements made property disposals by management in accounting for a number of property transactions including the unwind of the joint venture with British Land, the disposal of the Kipa business in Turkey and Opticians business in the UK.
See Notes 1, 7 and 31 to the financial statements.
Business combinations The Committee considered the presentation and work performed on documents published as part of the Booker merger, including the profit forecast, working capital report, financial position and prospects report, quantified forecast benefits statement and sections of the prospectus including the pro-forma financial information.
Contingent liabilities The Committee further considered managements assessment of the status of the ongoing regulatory investigations and litigation relating to prior periods.
The Committee concurred with managements assessment that due to the stage of the remaining matters and the uncertainties regarding the outcomes, no provision was required, and disclosure as contingent liabilities at the year-end was appropriate.
See Note 32 to the financial statements.
42 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Internal audit Group Audit and Advisory GAA The internal control framework is intended to manage rather than eliminate GAA is an independent assurance function within Tesco as a service to the the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide Board and all levels of management.
Its remit is to provide independent and reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
objective advice to facilitate, influence and help the organisation to achieve The Groups transformation programmes are intended to increase the its priorities.
It helps the organisation accomplish its objectives by bringing overall level of control environment maturity and improve consistency a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the across the Group.
As part of this, there has been progress on the risk effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
roadmap to mature our risk management.
The technology, people and GAAs responsibilities include supporting management in the assessment finance transformation programmes remain a challenge, but continue to and mitigation of risks to protect the business, as well as reporting on progress towards delivery of a strengthened control environment.
the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
Management are External audit responsible for: establishing and maintaining an appropriate system of risk Deloitte continued as our external auditors with Panos Kakoullis as the lead identification and internal control: and for the prevention and detection partner after their initial appointment in the 2015 16 financial year.
This is of irregularities and fraud.
GAA facilitate the Groups risk management in line with our intention of putting the external audit out to tender every processes with the Audit Committee and the Board.
10 years and to rotate the lead partner every five years.
Panos Kakoullis will In April 2018, the Committee considered an assessment of the effectiveness rotate as the lead partner following the audit of the 2019 20 financial year.
of the GAA function in protecting the business.
This assessment included The Committee considers the effectiveness of the external auditor on consideration of the structure and scope of GAAs work, their capabilities, an ongoing basis during the year, considering its independence, objectivity, independence, the adequacy of the audit plan and their engagement appropriate mindset and professional scepticism, through its own observations with stakeholders.
This assessment was facilitated by Lintstock Ltd, an and interactions with the external auditor, and having regard to the: independent company, who distributed a questionnaire based assessment to key stakeholders, collated the responses and provided the assessment experience and expertise of the external auditor in their direct reports.
The quality of the audits in providing assurance was also assessed communication with, and support to, the Committee: alongside the quality of the audit reports to the Committee and other content, quality of insights and added value of their reports: stakeholders, GAAs relationships, collaboration with the business and fulfilment of the agreed external audit plan: its impact on the organisation was also reviewed.
robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in their handling of key accounting and audit judgements: The Committee discussed the approach and findings of the assessment the interaction between management and the external auditor, including in which no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
The Committee ensuring that management dedicates sufficient time to the audit process: was satisfied that GAA remains effective and is adequately resourced.
provision of non-audit services, as set out below: and There were some suggested areas of improvement highlighted, including review and consideration of the results of the evaluation a recommendation that GAA enhances its capability in the area of technology of the effectiveness of the external auditor.
going forward to keep pace with technology advances and reduce reliance on third-party assurance.
The Committee reviewed and agreed to the planned The Committee considered an audit effectiveness review of Deloitte in next steps.
The Committee reviewed the GAA Charter in November 2017 April 2018, which was facilitated by an independent company, Lintstock Ltd, and approved its continued use.
The Internal Audit Plan for 2018 19 was who distributed a questionnaire based assessment to key stakeholders, presented and agreed by the Committee.
The Internal Audit Plan will be collated the responses and provided the assessment reports.
The review kept under review to adapt to the changing needs of the business.
concluded that the external auditor was effective and the Committee recommended to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte at the 2018 AGM.
Key elements of the risk management process The risk management process facilitates the identification and prioritisation The FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team selected for review the audit of risks through workshops and discussions with business leaders, facilitated of the Groups financial statements for the year ended 25 February 2017 by GAA and assigned business risk roles.
During the year the significant and Tesco Banks standalone financial statements for the period ended risks have been reviewed as a top down and bottom up process at both 28 February 2017 as part of their 2017 18 annual inspection of audit firms.
the business unit and the Group level to ensure awareness, agreement and In relation to the review of the Groups financial statements, the FRCs review appropriate prioritisation.
A risk that can seriously affect the performance, covers the audit work at the Group level and the audit work of the UK future prospects or reputation of the Group is termed a principal risk component.
The Group report did not identify any significant areas for and these risks are aligned to the Groups strategic drivers set out on improvement.
In relation to the review of Tesco Banks standalone financial pages 8 and 9.
Details of the Groups significant risks are documented statements, this review is in its final stages, and some matters have been and maintained in risk registers by the business.
In response, Deloitte developed an action plan to ensure that the matters identified by the AQR had been Risks are assessed to determine the potential impact and likelihood of addressed in the audit of Tesco Banks financial statements for the period occurrence, after taking into account key controls and mitigating factors.
The Committee is satisfied that there is nothing Additional mitigating actions are identified and agreed with relevant within the report which might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
The Committee also considered the findings of the FRCs 2017 Audit Quality The Group Chief Executive has overall accountability for the control Review of Deloitte as a whole and the actions being taken by Deloitte to and management of the risks Tesco face, with the Board having overall address the matters raised.
Individual risks are managed at the business unit level on an ongoing basis with follow up through the year by Deloitte contribute a further independent perspective on certain aspects GAA and assigned business risk roles.
All risks are assigned to an appropriate of the Groups financial control systems arising from their work, and report risk owner and the Group level principal risks are assigned to an executive both to the Board and the Committee.
Each principal risk is reviewed at least annually by the Board.
Our The process for approving all non-audit work provided by our external principal risks are detailed on pages 22 to 25, showing the risk movement, auditor is overseen by the Committee in order to safeguard the objectivity a summary of key controls, high level mitigating factors and links to the and independence of the auditor.
Where Deloitte have been chosen, Group's strategic drivers.
this is as a result of their demonstrating that they have the relevant skills Internal control and experience to make them an appropriate supplier to undertake the The Board monitors the key elements of the Groups internal control work in a cost-effective manner.
framework throughout the year and has conducted a review of the Our policy for non-audit services reflects the EU regulations as of effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
17 June 2016 that prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services, To support the Boards annual assessment, GAA prepared a report on the e. g. payroll services, by the external auditor and introduces a cap on Groups risk and internal control effectiveness, which described the risk non-audit fees.
In line with the regulations, the Group is required to cap the management systems and arrangements in place for internal control, as well level of non-audit fees paid to its external auditor at 70% of the average audit as work conducted in the year to improve the risk and control environment.
fees paid in the previous three consecutive financial years.
The 70% cap will first apply to the Group for the period ending February 2021.
The non-audit fees policy is compliant with new Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 43 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee continued In 2017 18, Deloitte received total fees of 13.5m 2016 17: 11.8m, Appointment of auditor statement consisting of 6.8m of audit fees 2016 17: 5.5m, and 6.7m for non-audit Following a formal tender process, Deloitte were appointed as our external and audit-related services 2016 17: 6.3m, which is an increase of 1.7m in auditor with effect from the 2015 AGM.
The Company is in compliance with total fees versus the previous period.
The total of Deloittes non-audit and the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies audit-related fees in the year equated to 99% of the audit fees.
Fees paid Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes to Deloitte are set out in Note 3 to the financial statements and details and Audit Responsibilities Order 2014, which relates to the frequency of the significant non-audit work undertaken this year are set out in the and governance of external audit tenders and the setting of a policy on table below.
the provision of non-audit services.
The Committee reviews and makes a recommendation to the Board with regard to the reappointment of the In the period, Deloitte was appointed to report under the court approved external auditor each year.
In making this recommendation, the Committee Deferred Prosecution Agreement with Tesco Stores Limited.
Safeguards considers auditor effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and were put in place to mitigate any threats to Deloittes independence by any other factors that may impact the Committees judgement regarding ensuring that work was conducted by individuals not directly involved in the external auditor.
Fair, balanced and understandable statement The Committee determined that it was appropriate for the external auditor The Committee advised the Board on whether the Annual Report to continue to provide transactional services in respect of our merger with and Financial Statements 2018, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and the Booker Group.
The appointment was also subject to an ethics review by understandable and provide the necessary information to assess the Deloitte in 2016 and in the current financial year, which concluded that the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
proposed services were consistent with the FRCs Revised Ethical Standards The Committee concluded that the disclosures, and the processes and 2016 and that there were appropriate safeguards in place to preserve controls underlying their production, were appropriate and recommended Deloittes independence as external auditor.
to the Board that the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 are fair, We continue to take steps to reduce the level of non-audit fees going balanced and understandable.
forward to ensure compliance with the 70% non-audit fee cap rules.
Committee effectiveness review Level of Level of The effectiveness of the Committee was evaluated this year as part of the fees in fees in Board evaluation process.
Further details can be found on pages 34 and 35.
Nature Safeguards to 2017 18 2016 17 of service preserve independence m m The review found that the Committee was operating effectively and that its broad role and remit remained appropriate for the current needs of the Provision of transactional Engagement team separate to 1.9 1.9 services: including the audit team with independent business.
In order to identify opportunities for further improvement, quantified financial reviews and working with informed members discuss how the Committee is functioning in the private sessions benefits synergy, working management.
capital and profit forecast reporting, relating to the Groups merger with the Booker Group Retail consultancy: Engagement team separate to the 1.5 1.5 provision of administrative audit team.
The service is limited support relating to the to the provision of administrative Groups markdown price support.
Decision-making optimisation process accountability remained with management.
Forensic services: Careful consideration of the scope 1.8 1.2 provision of data of services to ensure the advocacy repository services for and management threats are information needed by mitigated, together with working the Group and the SFO with informed management.
Clear separation of the engagement teams has also been established.
SFO Monitor role: Deloitte Under the Deferred Prosecution 0.8 has been appointed as Agreement Deloitte were Monitor by the SFO under appointed to conduct independent the Deferred Prosecution reviews by individuals not directly Agreement agreed with involved in the commercial Tesco Stores Limited income audits.
Other non-audit services: Careful consideration of the 0.2 1.2 tax compliance and scope of services to ensure advisory projects relating the advocacy and management to businesses outside threats are mitigated, together of the EU and other with working with informed miscellaneous risk and management.
Clear separation compliance services of the engagement teams has also been established where required.
From March 2017, no tax services have been provided to entities within the EU as required by the applicable Ethical Standards.
Interim review performed The interim review is considered 0.5 0.5 under International a non-audit service under the Standards of Review applicable Ethical Standards, Engagements although the objectives of the UK and Ireland 2410 review are aligned with those of the audit.
Total 6.7 6.3 44 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
