Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HOW OUR REPORT BOARD LEADS THE BUSINESS BOARD Chairman, CEO, CFO and eight Independent Non-Executive Directors.
THE BOARD IS RESPONSIBLE FOR: guiding the Groups strategic aims and approving the Groups strategy, budgetary and business plans: approving significant investments and capital expenditure: approving the Groups dividend policy and payments: establishing and maintaining the Groups risk appetite, system of internal control, governance and approval authorities: monitoring executive performance, remuneration and succession planning: and reviewing standards ofethics and policy in relation to health, safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
THE BOARD IS GOVERNED BY: A Schedule of Matters reserved for the A documented Division of Terms of Reference for Committees These documents are available Board which sets out matters that can Responsibilities between the which set out matters the Board has on the Groups website at only be decided by the Board Chairman and the CEO authorised the Committees to deal with www.
com OUR COMMITTEES AUDIT NOMINATIONS HEALTH, SAFETY & REMUNER ATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Five Independent Chairman and four Independent CEO and three Independent Five Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Responsible for overseeing the Leads the process for Board Responsible for health, safety Responsible for advising the Board on Groups financial reporting, internal appointments and re-election, and and environmental policy and remuneration of Executive Directors and external audit, internal control succession planning of Directors compliance, and developing standards and setting an overall policy for and risk management system and andthe Chairman.
andprocedures to manage risk in these remunerating the Groupscolleagues.
Committee report on pages 78 to 81.
Committee report on pages 83 and 84.
Committee report on pages 88 to 109.
FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE Meets weekly to facilitate swift and efficient operational management decisions The Committee meets regularly during the year to consider the Groups for the business in relation to day-to-day financing and administrative matters.
disclosure obligations and to review results announcements prior to release.
A schedule of decisions taken by the Committee is reported toeachBoardMeeting.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CEO, CFO and functional and segment leaders.
Meets on a weekly basis to review: trading: execution of strategic projects: progress against targets: and monitor risk.
THOMAS COOK LEADERSHIP COUNCIL TCLC DELEGATED AUTHORITY MATRIX The TCLC comprises the top 104 senior leaders in the organisation.
The Board-approved Delegated Authority Matrix sets out levels of authority Information about the Companys strategy and performance is regularly delegated by the Board to senior leaders within the business in respect of communicated to the TCLC, who in turn cascade to their teams to ensure the decision making required for the day-to-day operation of the business.
everyone understands where they fit into the strategy and what they can doto help the Company achieve its goals.
67 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board composition Directors conflicts of interest As at 28 November 2018, the Board was made up of 11 Directors The Board has a set of principles for managing conflicts and an which comprised the Chairman, two Executive Directors and eight agreed process to identify and authorise potential conflicts where Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee reviews any potential conflicts, as and when they arise, and makes a recommendation to Frank Meysman was the Chairman throughout the year.
The roles the Board as to whether the potential conflict should be authorised.
of the Chairman and CEO are separate and distinct.
Dawn Airey is The Nominations Committee regularly reviews all authorised the Senior Independent and is available to Shareholders should they conflicts.
It also reviews the interests of candidates prior to making have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels recommendations to the Board for the appointment of new Directors.
involving the Executive Directors or the Chairman.
This process was followed throughout the year to 30 September 2018.
Biographical details of all Directors can be found on pages 64 to 66 Re-appointment of Directors and on the Groups corporate website at www.
In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Changes to the Board and Committees Association, all Directors are subject to re-election by Shareholders.
During the year, Michael Healy retired as CFO with effect from At the AGM held in February 2018, each of the Directors in post at 31 December 2017 and Bill Scott was appointed as CFO with effect from the time was submitted for re-election and successfully re-elected.
On the 24 September 2018, the Company announced Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term, subject that Bill Scott would step down from the Board on 30 November 2018. to annual re-election by Shareholders, and rigorous review by the Sten Daugaard joined the Company on 1 October 2018 and will take up Nominations Committee.
Each Non-Executive Director can serve up to the role of CFO on an interim basis from 1 December 2018. a maximum of three such terms.
Lesley Knox was appointed to the Nominations Committee with effect Group Company Secretary from 14 March 2018.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate governance Director independence and time commitment matters as well as ensuring that there is a smooth flow of information The Nominations Committee and the Board considered the to enable effective decision making.
All Directors have access to the independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the criteria advice and services of the Group Company Secretariat and through specified in the Code and determined that each was independent.
them have access to independent professional advice in respect of They also considered the independence of Emre Berkin whose threetheir duties, at the Companys expense.
The Group Company Secretary year term was renewed during the year, before approving the renewal acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees.
year, Alice Marsden held the position of Group General Counsel and The Chairman and each Independent Non-Executive Director have Company Secretary.
Biographical details can be found on page 66. provided assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and can dedicate sufficient time to fulfil their obligations.
All Directors must obtain the prior consent of the Chairman before taking on any additional directorships.
Before providing consent the Chairman will take into consideration any existing directorships and commitments and the nature, location and expected time commitment of the proposed new role.
The Chairman will not approve any Director taking on additional commitments that he believes would interfere with their ability to dedicate sufficient time to the Company.
68 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Packs for the Board and Committee meetings are circulated using Meetings a fully encrypted electronic portal system.
This enables fast and The full Board meets at least six times a year at its scheduled secure distribution of information that can be accessed using meetings, and in between these meetings when required.
Board members communicate with each other and Management outside of formal Board meetings to keep up-to-date with All Directors are invited to attend the meetings and receive the packs business developments.
The Chairman and the Committee Chairs for all Committees, regardless of membership unless not in line hold planning meetings and calls with Management in respect of with governance best practice, i. e. an Executive Director would not upcoming meetings.
attend a Remuneration Committee meeting unless specifically invited for a particular agenda item.
This ensures all Directors remain well At each Board meeting, the CEO presents a comprehensive update informed on all matters of the Boards business and reduces the need on the progress of the Groups strategy and business issues arising for lengthy Committee feedback sessions during Board meetings.
across the Group, and the CFO presents a detailed analysis of the financial performance, both at Group and segment level.
Attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out below: Health, Safety & Audit Remuneration Environmental Nominations Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Frank Meysman 6 6 6 6 Peter Fankhauser 6 6 4 4 Bill Scott 5 5 Dawn Airey 6 6 6 6 6 6 Annet Aris 6 6 6 6 4 4 Emre Berkin 6 6 4 4 6 6 Warren Tucker 6 6 5 5 6 6 Martine Verluyten 6 6 5 5 6 6 Lesley Knox 6 6 5 5 6 6 4 4 Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson 5 6 5 5 6 6 Jrgen Schreiber 5 6 5 5 4 4 Former Director Michael Healy 1 1 Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson absent due to prior commitment.
Jrgen Schreiber absent due to illness.
Michael Healy stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 December 2017.
69 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED WHAT THE BOARD DID DURING THE YEAR PE RFORMANCE PEOPLE AND RISK & ME ETING AND STRATEGY GOVE RNANCE COMPLIANCE INDUC TION Met in Reviewed full Audit Committee Chair NOVEMBER London, UK year performance held regular progress 2017 meetings with the Approved GDPR Steering final dividend Committee in run up to GDPR implementation DECEMBER 2017 JANUARY 201 8 Met in Reviewed Attended AGM FEBRUARY London, UK Q1 performance 201 8 Reviewed Every Voice engagement survey results MARCH Met in Met with key Met with colleagues in Shanghai, China business partner China and received 201 8 and shareholder Fosun presentations from management Received presentations Jrgen Schreiber and from independent Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson experts on China induction activities APRIL included visits 201 8 to Peterborough, Oberursel, Frankfurt airport and Manchester airport offices see page71 MAY Met in Reviewed halfGroup Head of Risk London, UK year performance conducted one-to-one 201 8 risk appetite interviews Held offsite strategy day JUNE 201 8 Met in Reviewed Group Company The Board reviewed JULY London, UK Q3 performance Secretary conducted itsrisk appetite 201 8 one-to-one board Reviewed three year effectiveness business plan interviews Reviewed tax strategy AUGUST Health, Safety and Environmental Committee 201 8 held ad-hoc meeting to consider serious incident Met in Reviewed performance SID conducted SEPTEMBER Stockholm, Sweden since Q3 Chairman evaluation 201 8 Held Group-wide talent review Met colleagues in Stockholm Board evaluation feedback and discussion at meeting 70 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 BOARD INDUCTION ANDTRAINING A tailored induction programme is provided to each new Director During the year, the Board spent significant time considering onappointment.
Inductions typically include: the Companys key strategic projects including the launch of a 400 million guaranteed bond and the launch of the the provision of a comprehensive induction pack: Companys hotel fund joint venture with LMEY investments.
meetings with other Board members and senior management Other important items on the Board agenda included Brexit across a wide variety of geographies: contingency planning, the three-year business plan and risk visits to the Companys business operations in multiple countries: mitigation matters, including agreeing the Boards risk appetite.
and presentations and briefings on the Companys business and other In March, the Board held its meetings in Shanghai, China relevant topics.
in the head office of the Companys joint venture with Fosun.
The Board met colleagues working for Thomas Cook Individual induction requirements are monitored by the China and received presentations from the Thomas Cook Chairman, withthe support of the Group General Counsel and China management team.
The Board met with various Company Secretary.
representatives from Fosun, the Companys shareholder and Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson and Jrgen Schreiber were appointed to the key business partner.
Board in July 2017 and have since undertaken an induction programme In May, the Board held an offsite strategy day where it spent which included the following: time considering strategic options and opportunities.
Visits to the following business areas: In September, the Board held its meetings in Stockholm, the head office of the Companys Tour Operator business in The Group Airline head office at Manchester Airport Northern Europe.
The Board met with colleagues and received The Northern Europe Tour Operator business head offices presentations from each member of the Management team in Stockholm onthe Companys business.
The UK Tour Operator business head office in Peterborough The Board also spent half a day focusing solely on people, The German Tour Operator business and Condor Airline where it spent time considering a Group-wide talent review head offices in Oberursel and Frankfurt respectively which examined talent, succession, retention risk and diversity in respect of the top 100 roles in the business and how this One-to-one meetings with: feeds into the executive pipeline.
Executive Directors Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Members of the Executive Committee Other key leaders in the business The Companys Senior Statutory Auditor Feedback received on the induction programme included that it was comprehensive and that management were very open and informative when discussing the business, enabling Directors to get a good feel for the culture of the Company.
At Board meetings and, where appropriate, Committee meetings, theDirectors receive updates and presentations on developments tothe relevant legislative and regulatory environments.
71 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD EFFECTIVENESS EVALUATION During the year, the Group Company Secretary conducted an internal Board effectiveness evaluation in the form of individual one hour interviews, either by phone or in person, with Board members and other regular meeting attendees.
Following the interviews, a report was prepared which was discussed with the Chairman and then shared with the Board at its September meeting.
The Group Company Secretary and Chairman developed an action plan which will be monitored throughout the year.
The below sets out some of the strengths and areas of focus identified during the review: OUTPUTS FROM 2018 EVALUATION Strengths identified: There is a good level of focus on strategy, There is a healthy and constructive level Risk is well presented, considered and assessed with sufficient time allowed for strategy of challenge from Non-Executive Directors by the Board and the Board feel they have good tobeproperly considered in Board meetings.
fostered by a positive Board culture.
visibility of the risks facing thebusiness.
All actions from the 2017 evaluation have either The Board continues to possess the necessary been addressed in full or are well underway and skills, experience and diversity to properly continue to be tracked.
perform its role, both collectively and as individuals.
AREAS OF FOCUS IDENTIFIED: AC TION S: The Board could benefit from receiving more feedback from The Audit Committee Chair and Group Company Secretary have strategicbusiness partners on their views of the Company previously met with a number of hotel partners and agency asabusiness partner.
partners in order to obtain their views of the Company as a business partner.
Going forwards the Group Company Secretary and Chairman will ensure that other key partners, including suppliers, are included.
To assist succession planning, the Board could benefit from The Board meet high potential individuals when travelling to source morevisibility of high potential individuals at the level below the market offices as part of the Board calendar and when they Executive Committee.
present agenda items in Board and committee meetings.
However, the Group Company Secretary and Chairman will specifically invite highpotential individuals to present to the Board on the business topics they are working on, to provide additional visibility.
Board and Committee meeting time could be better utilised by The Group Company Secretary and Chairman will deliver the ensuring all discussion focuses on key issues rather than receiving message to all presenters to take their papers as read and focus on information that could be provided in a pre-read.
key issuesfordiscussion and will monitor this on a meeting by meeting basis.
72 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PROGRESS FROM 2017 EVALUATION Following the externally facilitated evaluation conducted by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited in 2017, the Group Company Secretary and Chairman agreed an action plan and have been monitoring progress against this throughout the year.
During the internal evaluation conducted this year, Board members were asked about the extent to which they felt progress had been made against last years plan and feedback was positive, noting particular improvements in many areas, including the below areas which were identified in the FY17 annual report.
AREAS OF FOCUS IDENTIFIED: PROGR ESS: Certain agenda items and the private sessions i. e. the meetings The Group Company Secretary and Chairman have worked to ofNon-Executive Directors in the absence of Management increase the overall time available for meetings and improve cansometimes feel rushed as a result of a lack of time available timeallocation of the agenda.
The Nominations Committee should spend more time looking The Nominations Committee have spent significantly more at long-term succession planning for the Chair and Committee onsuccession planning considering the Chairman, the CEO, the CFO chairs as wellas the Executive Directors.
and Non-Executive Directors, and met six times during the year.
The Board has set a clear tone from the top in respect of culture The annual employee engagement results were presented to butit could now benefit from spending more time monitoring how theBoard by the Group HR Director and allocated time on the cultural changes are being received and filtering down through Boardagenda for discussion.
A number of exit interviews have been theorganisation.
conducted by the Senior Independent Director.
The agreement to introduce a Colleague Advisory Non-Executive Director role in 2019 will also support this intention.
CHAIRMAN EVALUATION Separately, the Non-Executive Directors, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director and with input from the Executive Directors, conducted an evaluation of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director held individual calls with the other Directors in September and the outputs from the calls were discussed by the Board in the absence of the Chairman.
Following this, the Senior Independent Director provided feedback to the Chairman.
INDIVIDUAL EXECUTIVE EVALUATION The individual performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed separately by the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee.
73 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED How we engage with and listen to our Stakeholders GOVERNMENT AND ENVIRONMENT SUPPLIERS We have a Supplier Code of Ethics and REPUTATIONAL ANDCOMMUNITY Conduct which sets out standards of The Group Head of Public Affairs and We engage with or sit on local destination behaviour expected of our suppliers which Sustainability is in constant dialogue with committees and community groups to share covers topics such as human rights, child governments, public officials and policy and discuss environmental and community labour, modern slavery, discrimination and makers on various topics which affect issues specific to the destinations we anti-bribery and corruption.
This work is reported to the operate in.
The CEO hosts an annual meeting event Health, Safety and Environmental Committee We also sit on working groups and steering for our main hotel partners, which is and topics engaged on during the year can committees at ABTA and the DRV the attended by the Chairman, the Executive be found in the Committees report on pages German Travel Association in relation to Committee and the hotel contracting 83 and 84. specific environmental and sustainability team, which provides an opportunity for During the year, we engaged an independent topics where NGO and interest groups hoteliers to engage with us on a less research consultancy to survey public contribute specialist knowledge to formal basis.
affairs stakeholders, consumer and ensure businesses are well informed on We hold an annual presentation for corporate journalists, analysts and important issues.
aircraft financiers and lessors to provide investors on their attitudes and opinions Our Sustainability team are in regular an update on the financial results and on the Company, the results of which were dialogue with various interest groups and business of the Group, with a specific reported back to the Board.
this work is reported back to the Health, focus on the Airline segment.
Safety and Environmental Committee see pages 83and84.
74 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 COLLEAGUES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS Our Every Voice annual engagement Institutional investors: Our dedicated Customer and Market survey was answered by 18,907 We have an ongoing comprehensive Insight Team are constantly receiving colleagues representing a response rate Investor Relations programme conducted feedback from customers via surveys of 76% see page 37. by the CEO, CFO and Investor Relations atvarious stages of the customer We hold half-yearly Group-wide town halls team which involves two to four road journey: post-booking: pre-departure: where the CEO presents key messages shows a year and meetings with existing in-destination: and when they live to all colleagues across the Group and and new investors in various countries.
an online facility is provided for colleagues Our Investor Relations team hold regular Last year, we received over one million to submit questions.
calls, meetings and presentations free text comments which were tracked Our Group Airline holds regular webchats with analysts.
and analysed in real time using specialist where colleagues can ask senior customer feedback management The Chairman and Remuneration management questions and we have software see page 23.
Committee Chair regularly meet with developed an app to communicate with Shareholders to discuss corporate Last year, we conducted 25 different remote and mobile colleagues.
governance and remuneration related customer research projects to gain Many of our colleagues are represented matters respectively.
the views of customers on specific by Trade Unions and Works Councils who topics, for example, awareness of Private investors: we engage with on regular basis, including our customer promises and attitudes All Directors attend the AGM where they our European Works Council.
speak with private Shareholders informally We operate an independent before and after the meeting.
During the We held 15 different Customer Sounding whistleblowing service known internally Board sessions where we met in person meeting the Chairman and CEO present to as Speaking Out.
All matters reported to Shareholders and the Board take questions.
with over 100 customers to gain inthe whistleblowing line are investigated depth insight.
The Companys registrar Equiniti and the and any significant issues identified are Company Secretarial team respond to reported to the Board.
We have various other colleague forums Debt investors: in different areas of the business.
Our Treasury team engage in regular Our dedicated Internal Communications dialogue with key relationship banks team regularly cascade important which includes semi-annual meetings information about the business withManagement presentations.
to colleagues via the most They alsohold update and review appropriate medium.
meetingswith theCompanys credit rating agencies.
During the year, Management engaged with bondholders, both during the road show for last years bond refinancing, and through semi-annual results calls.
We maintain a presence at investmentbank sponsored investor conferences.
During the year we refreshed our corporate website to make it more user friendly for all investors.
75 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Matter Type Action The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining UK Significant Manual workarounds and aneffective system of internal control and risk management that is unsupportable control failing.
estimates have been replaced appropriate in relation to both the scope and the nature of the Groups aged debit with system interfaces.
System activities, and complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
balances note interfaces have been upgraded 33 accumulated as necessary.
These changes The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks through are supported by an increased facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business erroneous focus on controls and greater model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This is fully described accounting awareness of and accountability in the Risk Management section on pages 56 to 61. entries and for responsibilities regarding incorrect accounting processes following The Groups internal control and risk management systems are configuration a change in UK Finance senior designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to ofinterfaces.
achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, but Timely booking, Controls requiring Group Finance will reassess the not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
appropriateness of the Group These systems have been in place for the year under review and up approval of Accounting Policy regarding tothe date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
The Board separately Separately Disclosed Items and has approved the framework and the standards implemented.
disclosed will implement an enhanced level items and the of approval prior to recognition REVIEW OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL supporting of such items in the financial During the year the Board, through the work of the Audit Committee, evidence statements.
has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system thereof.
The Board monitors the internal control processes on an ongoing basis, including financial, operational and compliance GOING CONCERN controls, under the auspices of the Enterprise Risk and Audit function.
The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over the Regular reports on control issues are presented to and discussed period of 12 months from the date of approval of the Annual Report with the Audit Committee and there is a follow up process in place to and Accounts and the medium term in the context of its current ensure audit recommendations are fully implemented by Management.
operating performance, the principal risks facing the business and its Ernst & Young communicated to the Audit Committee certain internal business plan for the next three years.
In addition, the Group weaknesses in internal controls identified as part of their audit of the has prepared a sensitivity analysis on its business plan and evaluated financial statements, and communicated their view on the systems the impact of certain principal risks occurring both individually and in of internal control.
The Board has noted ongoing progress and active unison, together with mitigating actions that could be implemented focus in the internal control processes during this year.
in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, can confirm that the following actions are being taken to remedy As part of their assessment, the Directors have also noted that the the significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review Groups funding arrangements are unchanged, since being revised as follows: inNovember 2017 and that they remain in place until November 2022, other than the reset of certain facility covenants for FY19 and FY20.
Having considered the above factors, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT IN RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS The Group has a thorough assurance process in place in respect ofthe preparation, verification and approval of the Annual Report &Accounts.
This process includes: the involvement of qualified, professional employees with anappropriate level of experience both in Group Finance andthroughout the business : formal sign-offs from appropriate business segment Managing Directors and Finance Directors: comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from keyinternal Group functions: a transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information to theexternal auditors.
Engagement of a professional and experienced firm of external auditors: and 76 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 oversight by the Groups Audit Committee, involving amongst The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the other duties : Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the a detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from have been discussed by Management: and legislation in other jurisdictions.
review and, where appropriate, challenge on matters including: DISCLOSURE GUIDANCE AND TRANSPARENCY the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting RULESCONFIRMATION policies and practices during the year: significant adjustments resulting from an external audit: Each of the Directors who were in office at the date of this report the Companys statement on internal control systems, prior and whose names and functions are listed on pages 64 to 66, confirm toendorsement by the Board: and that, to the best of their knowledge: the going concern assumption.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in The above process, and the review by the Audit Committee of a accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair comprehensive note that sets out the details of the preparation, view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the internal verification and approval process for the Annual Report & Group: and Accounts, provides comfort to the Board that the Annual Report & the Strategic and Directors Report contained on pages 2 to 87 Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable includes a fair review of the development and performance of the andprovides the information necessary for Shareholders to business and the position of the Group, together with a description assess the Companys position and performance, business of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report & INRESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT, THE Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In making this confirmation, the Directors took into account their The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, knowledge of the business, which is kept up-to-date with regular the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements reports, updates and business reviews circulated prior to and in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law discussed at each Board meeting, and supplemented by a variety of requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each written reports, verbal updates and presentations given at Board and financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Committee meetings as well as a regular flow of information about Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with the business between meetings.
The Directors then took into account International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the thorough preparation and verification process in respect of the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give Annual Report & Accounts, which included sufficient time for the a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Directors to review the Annual Report & Accounts and to feed in their Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
comments to Management before approving the document.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Directors Report confirms that: so far as they are aware, there is and prudent: and no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are confirm that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted unaware: and that they have taken all steps that they ought to by the European Union.
have taken as a Director to make them aware of any relevant audit The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting SHARE CAPITAL AND RELATED DISCLOSURES records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Disclosures in relation to the share capital of the Company, including transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the Companys major Shareholders are given in the Other Disclosures financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable them to section on pages 85 to 87. ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with regards DIVIDEND to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Board decided to suspend the dividend for FY18, reflecting the The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of overall net loss after tax reported by the Group.
This decision does not the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the reflect a change in the long-term dividend policy, which is to target prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
dividend growth that reflects the Groups progress in underlying earnings per share.
For FY17 the Company paid a dividend of 0.6 pence per share resulting in a cash redemption of 9 million.
77 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written Terms of Reference which are available at www.
Some of their keys responsibilities are: monitoring the integrity of the annual, half-year and quarterly results statements, including reviewing the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys CHAIRMAN Internal Audit function: Martine Verluyten establishing and overseeing the Companys relationship with itsexternal auditor, including monitoring their effectiveness OTHER MEMBERS andindependence: and Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson, Lesley Knox, Jrgen Schreiber monitoring matters raised pursuant to the Companys andWarrenTucker.
WORK DURING THE YEAR COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE All members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Financial reporting and significant judgement areas Directors.
The Committee monitored the integrity of the annual, half-year and Martine Verluyten, Warren Tucker and Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson quarterly results statements, including a review of the significant are considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial financial reporting judgements contained in them.
In May and experience, as required by the Code, and satisfy the requirements November, the Committee reviewed a comprehensive paper prepared for competence in accounting and or auditing under the Disclosure by the Group Finance Team, which set out the Groups accounting Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Board considers that the policies and basis of preparation.
The Committee also reviewed a Committee as a whole has competence in the travel sector.
Travel paper prepared by the external auditor, which included significant sector experience is highlighted in the Directors biographies on reporting and accounting matters.
The Committee pays particular pages 64 to 66. attention to matters that it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Group results and remuneration of senior DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES management, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation in See pages 64 to 66 their application in preparation of the Groups financial statements.
The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee are shown MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: in the table overleaf.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors, Peter Fankhauser CEO, Bill Scott CFO, Alice Marsden Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Sofya Linderman Group Head of Risk, Derek Foster Group Head of Audit, Neil Dudleston Chief Information Security Officer, Nick Ong-Seng Thomas Cook Money Risk and Compliance Director and Richard Wilson Senior Statutory Auditor Ernst & Young.
At the end of four of its meetings during the year, the Committee and also those Non-Executive Directors who are not on the Committee met with the Internal Audit and Risk functions and Ernst & Young, the Companys external auditor, in the absence ofManagement.
78 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Significant issues in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed considered by the Committee by the Committee Revenue Recognition: There are a significant number of transactions The Committee evaluated the IT systems and the internal controls in place in relation to revenue, given the nature of the business.
The accounting around revenue recognition.
This included a review of the Group revenue for revenue is susceptible to management override.
This brings a risk recognition policies to ensure revenue is recognised in line with the policy.
around the completeness and accuracy of the revenue recognised during The Committee concluded that revenue was complete and accurate.
Accounting for aircraft maintenance provisions: Significant fixed The Committee reviewed the methodology and key assumptions used assets for aircraft and provisions for maintenance and contractual by Management in accounting for aircraft maintenance provisions and endoflease obligations are held on the balance sheet.
concluded that the treatment was appropriate.
In addition, the methodology for the calculation of the discount rate was reviewed and agreed There is an inherent level of estimation included in the calculation of the asappropriate.
maintenance provisions which are based upon forecast aircraft usage and maintenance costs.
Furthermore, there is judgement needed to determine the appropriate discount rate for the provision.
Separately disclosed items: The Group has an established policy of The Committee considered the presentation of the Group financial separately disclosing items that are either exceptional or not reflective statements and the appropriateness of the presentation of separately of the underlying performance of the Group.
disclosed items in the Group financial statements.
In particular, items relating to the New Operating Model and Airline Disruption, taking into Separately disclosed items are not defined by IFRSs as adopted by the account the observations communicated by the external auditors, Ernst European Union and therefore judgement is required by the Directors & Young.
The Committee reviewed the nature of items identified and toidentify such items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items requested removal of certain items which were subsequently adjusted asseparately disclosed is important to maintain comparability of by Management.
The Committee concurred with Management that the reporting year-on-year.
treatment of the remaining items was even-handed, consistent across years and appropriately presented movements on items which have an effect over a number of years.
Consideration was also given to the quality of earnings within underlying results.
Carrying Value of Goodwill and Deferred Tax Assets: The Group The Committee reviewed Managements process for testing goodwill and holds significant goodwill and deferred tax assets on the balance deferred tax assets for potential impairment.
This included challenging the sheet.
Determining the carrying value of these assets is dependent key assumptions: principally cash flow forecasts, growth rates and discount onjudgements about the future results of the business.
rates for goodwill and taxable profit forecasts for deferred tax assets.
Provision for illness claims and associated recoveries: Following The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions that media coverage of the increase in fraudulent illness claims and the Managementhad used in determining the provision for illness claims industries response to tackle this issue, including the commencement tosatisfy itself that the level of provisioning was appropriate.
of criminal prosecutions against fraudulent claimants, there has The Committee reviewed the methodology behind the hotel recovery been a significant decrease in the number of illness claims made by positionand challenged Management on the assumptions used.
The calculation continues to require judgement TheCommittee satisfied itself that the level of recovery recognised and thereislimited historical data available in determining the level wasappropriate.
In addition, determining the amount recoverable from hotels relating to these illness claims is subjective and requires Management judgement.
Going concern and viability: The Board make an assessment and The Committee considered the going concern and viability statements statement in respect of going concern and viability.
in light of the forecasts, sensitivities and considerations presented by Management.
In particular, the Committee considered short and long term liquidity as well as key covenant compliance forecasts, including the Q4 2018 covenant given the result for the year.
This consideration included challenging the base forecasts, the impact of severe but plausible scenarios and the achievability of planned mitigations in the required timeframe.
It also included consideration of key facility terms on the calculation of covenants and legal advice obtained in respect thereof.
The Committee concurred with Managements considerations and concluded that the statement with regards viability adequately explains how the Board has assessed the prospects of the Group, that the going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements is appropriate, and that there are no material uncertainties as to the Groups ability to operate as a going concern in the period assessed.
79 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Chair of the RISK MANAGEMENT ANDINTERNAL AUDIT Committee and operationally to the Chief Financial Officer and has Risk Management direct access to, and regular meetings with, the Committee Chair.
The Audit Committee considers risk exposure against the risk appetite The Committee received quarterly updates from the Head of Internal of the Group, as set by the Board, by assessing all key strategic risks Audit on key issues identified in Internal Audit reviews, progress in terms of their potential impact and likelihood of occurrence, after against the agreed Internal Audit Plan, together with the status of consideration of all mitigating and controlling actions undertaken by Managements implementation of recommendations.
During the year, the Audit Committee assessed the key year, the Committee considered a wide range of matters, including: strategic risks and received updates from the Group Head of Risk, Cyber Security the Committee received and considered the through the Group Risk Dashboard, which highlighted changes in the results of a review on the implementation of the Groups cyber Groups risk profile.
The Audit Committees assessment of risks and security strategy and the improvement in the Groups cyber mitigations contributed to the risk based Internal Audit Plan and wider security maturity.
General Data Protection Regulation the Committee considered the The Audit Committee was supported in its work by the Executive results of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR assurance Committee, comprised of representatives of Senior Management and review and the Committee received regular updates on the Groups chaired by the CEO please see report on risk management on pages implementation of the change required by the GDPR.
Group Treasury the Committee considered the results of a review of the Groups treasury control environment specifically A particular area of focus for the Committee during the year was foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, and funding the implementation of the GDPR.
The Committee Chair held regular compliance.
The Committee was satisfied that there are well progress meetings with the GDPR Steering Committee which is made developed processes and controls in place to manage the Groups up of representatives from relevant departments including Legal, risk exposure.
Information Security, IT and Customer Experience and held one-to-one Efficiency Programmes the Committee was updated on the progress meetings with certain business areas in various locations to progress of the Groups efficiency programmes in the Tour Operator provide additional oversight and support.
The reviews considered the programme governance The Committee received regular updates in respect of the Groups including alignment, risk recording, responsibilities, resourcing, other legal compliance programmes which covered matters including: business engagement, documentation, integrity of reporting, anti-bribery and corruption: competition law: the Package Travel andcontrol of costs.
Directive: hotel and accommodation contracting: and sanctions.
Complaints and Claims the Committee considered a review of the customer complaints and claims process.
The Committee was Internal Audit satisfied that the control environment is operating effectively: the The Committee continued to oversee and support the development overall number and value of complaints is stable or falling: and the of the in-house Internal Audit function.
The Committee reviewed, customer relations teams in each segment have the necessary challenged and approved the Internal Audit Plan to ensure that it experience and training to handle complaints.
aligned to the Companys strategic risks as well as ensuring that Hotel Portfolio the Committee considered the results of a review the Internal Audit function was adequately resourced to deliver the into how the Group contracts with and monitors the quality of Internal Audit Plan.
The scope of the Internal Audit Plan included hotels.
The Committee was satisfied that the Group continues the management of risks and controls in operational, financial, to make progress in offering quality hotels to customers.
This is compliance, and efficiency programme activities.
shown through improvements in accommodation NPS, customer The Internal Audit function includes an Information Security IS satisfaction questionnaires, reduction in customer complaints Assurance department, responsible for reviewing the hardware, and feedback through online reputation management tools.
software, infrastructure, and IT operations of the Group, to ensure The Committee was satisfied that the Group has processes to they continue to meet the organisations technology needs.
ensure that quality issues are identified and that we work with hotels to raise quality standards.
The Internal Audit function is responsible for: Health and Safety the Committee considered the results of providing an unbiased assessment of control design and a review into how the Group manages health and safety risk.
operating effectiveness: The results showed that the Group has made good progress in acting as a catalyst for improvement in risk management, managing and reducing health and safety risk.
control and governance: safeguarding the Companys assets: and assessing and ensuring compliance with laws and regulation.
80 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 During the year, an internal effectiveness assessment of the The Policy states that the external auditor should not be engaged in Internal Audit function was completed.
The assessment measured respect of services blacklisted in the FRCs Ethical Standard 2016. performance of the function against the Quality Assessment criteria Any other material non-audit work must be authorised in advance provided by the Institute of Internal Auditors, and the Committee by the Committee, unless the engagement is urgent, in which case concluded it remains satisfied with the work of the Internal the CFO can agree the work with the Committee Chair and report it Audit function.
to the next Committee meeting.
The details of non-audit work if any arereported to the Committee on at least a six-monthly basis.
Internal Control Fees for non-audit services during the year totalled 876,417 The Groups internal control framework is managed by the Group representing 23 per cent of the fees paid to the external auditor Finance function.
The Audit Committee receives updates on internal further information about non-audit fees can be found in Note 6 to control matters at each meeting which provides the Committee the financial statements.
212,000 of this fee was in respect of the with assurance that the internal controls in place are robust.
review of the Companys half-year results, for which the Companys Regular monitoring of the internal control framework allows timely external auditor must be used and 420,000 was in respect of the identification of issues and formal tracking of remediation plans.
The Committee considered the level The internal control framework includes Risk and Control Matrices, of fees to be acceptable and did not consider it posed any risk to which act as a key mechanism to mitigate the risk of financial auditor independence.
Self-certifications over the operating Effectiveness effectiveness of the controls within the Key Control Framework are received on a periodic basis from each local business segment.
At its meeting in November 2018, the Committee considered the Group Finance ensure that agreed actions are being implemented to effectiveness of EY as external auditor in respect of the FY18 financial support a programme of maintaining and improving internal controls results.
The review included consideration of comprehensive papers and work closely alongside Internal Audit, refining the framework from both Management and the external auditor, and meetings with based on the findings from their reviews.
Management in the absence of the external auditor.
The work on internal controls in the current year has focused on The effectiveness review considered matters such as: the establishing a consistent framework of key controls across the Group, competence of the key senior members of the team and their reviewing the self-certification of the operating effectiveness of those understanding of the business and its environment: the planning controls and phased testing of critical account reconciliations.
process: effectiveness in identifying key risks: technical expertise displayed by the auditor over complex accounting matters: These activities, together with the regular reports from the external communicating and resolving audit issues: timeliness of the audit auditors, have supported the Audit Committee in providing its advice process: cost: and communication of issues and risks to Management to the Board in respect of the effectiveness of internal controls see and the Committee.
section headed Risk Management and Internal Control on page 76.
Following the review, the Committee concluded that overall EY had EXTERNAL AUDITOR provided an effective and independent audit in respect of FY18.
The Companys external auditor is Ernst & Young EY and Richard Planning Wilson is the Senior Statutory Auditor.
At its meeting in May 2018, the Committee considered and Independence approved the external audit plan for the audit of the Group for Both the Board and EY have a number of safeguards in place to ensure FY18.
The Committee considered significant risk areas for the audit, the auditors independence and objectivity are protected.
the proposed scope, the materiality threshold and the approach tointernal audit.
EY was appointed by Shareholders in 2017 following a competitive tender process.
The external audit contract is put out to tender at MARTINE VERLUYTEN least every 10 years.
As part of the review of the effectiveness of the CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE external auditor the Committee considered the auditors independence and concluded that the auditor demonstrated independence and objectivity during the FY18 audit and therefore recommends the 28 November 2018 re-appointment of EY for FY19.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order in respect of the financial year under review.
The Committee approved Non-audit Fee Policy the Policy ensures that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor does not impair their independence or objectivity.
The Policy which is appended as a schedule to the Audit Committees Terms of Reference, is published on the Groups website at www.
81 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board or its Committees.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on all new appointments to the Board, as well as Board balance and composition.
The Committee ensures that there is clarity in respect of the role description and capabilities required for such appointments.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board in respect of authorising such matters.
CHAIRMAN Frank Meysman The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available at www.
OTHER MEMBERS WORK DURING THE YEAR Dawn Airey, Emre Berkin, Lesley Knox from 14 March 2018 andMartine Verluyten.
The Committee met six times during the year, and the majority of this time was dedicated to succession planning activities.
The Committee COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE considered succession plans and role profiles for a number of key A majority of the members of the Committee are Board roles.
The Committee also considered: DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES the extension of Emre Berkins appointment term for a further See pages 64 to 66 three years: re-appointment of Directors before making a recommendation to the MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: Board regarding their re-election at the 2018 AGM: and The other Non-Executive Directors, Peter Fankhauser CEO and Directors potential conflicts of interests and independence.
Alice Marsden Group General Counsel andCompany Secretary.
BOARD DIVERSITY The Board has in place a Board Appointments Policy which can be found at www.
com which sets out the principle that appointments to the Board will be made on merit, having regard to diversity.
During the year, the female representation on the Board was 36 per cent which exceeds the Hampton Alexander review target for Boards to have a minimum of 33 per cent female representation by 2020.
The Chairman is a member of the 30 per cent club, which has the aim of promoting the achievement of 30 per cent of women on FTSE 100 boards, and during the year the CEO also joined the club.
The Committee aims to maintain the minimum 30 per cent female representation and also to meet the target set by the Parker Review, to have at least one non-white Director by 2024.
The Committee believe that one of the key actions in achieving Diversity at Board level is to work to ensure a diverse long term succession pipeline for executive roles.
As set out in their People section on page 34 the Group has developed a Group-wide Diversity Framework which it plans to launch across the Group in 2019.
This Framework will apply to all colleagues Group-wide including the Companys management bodies such as TCLC and include targets which the Company will report against going forward.
FRANK MEYSMAN CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 28 November 2018 82 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE HEALTH, SAFETY & The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Groups business.
It is also responsible for the review and oversight of the Groups engagement with governments and policy makers.
The Committee supports Directors in meeting their duties under s172 of the Companies Act 2016 to have regard to various stakeholders in decision making.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available at www.
CHAIRMAN WORK DURING THE YEAR Emre Berkin During the year the Committee continued to closely monitor progress in its various areas of focus and provide strategic oversight and OTHER MEMBERS guidance to ensure that activities in these areas align with the Annet Aris, Peter Fankhauser and Jrgen Schreiber.
Companys overall strategy and values.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE One of the most serious matters considered by the Committee A majority of the members of the Committee are during the year was the tragic deaths of two customers, Mr and Mrs .
Cooper, on 21 August 2018 at the Steigenberger Aqua Magic Hotel in Hurghada, Egypt.
Mrs Cooper was also a long serving and highly DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES valued colleague.
The Committee held an unscheduled meeting where See pages 64 to 66 colleagues who had been involved in the Companys response to the tragedy attended and reported on actions the Company was taking.
MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: The Committee continues to monitor this serious incident and provide The other Non-Executive Directors, Bill Scott CFO, Marc Jordan independent oversight of the Companys response and actions.
Group Head of Health, Safety and Security, Gunnar Schmidt Group Other important matters the Committee considered within its four Director of Aviation Safety, Alice Macandrew Group Corporate main areas of focus are set out below: Affairs and Communications Director, Stephen DAlfonso Group Head of Public Affairs and Sustainability and Alice Marsden Group Customer and colleague Health and Safety General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Monitored the work and performance of SGS, the Companys main third-party audit supplier, who carried out independent health and safety audits in certain destinations: and Cristal International who carried out independent security audits in certain destinations.
Monitored the outcomes and findings of audits and any remedial actions identified.
Approved the Groups Health and Safety strategy which aims to make Thomas Cook industry-leading in all areas of health and safety.
Reviewed an Internal Audit review of the health and safety function.
Approved a new market-leading balcony safety policy.
Aviation Safety Monitored key safety metrics and progress against the Airlines Safety Plan and Safe@Heart initiative which aims to embed an enhanced safety culture across the Group Airline.
Received updates on the integration of safety processes into new Air Operator Certificates in the Balearics and Germany.
Monitored the safety and security of various airports including those in Turkey, Tunisia and Egypt.
Monitored the implementation of new safety software and processes including receiving demonstrations of the same.
83 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Sustainability and Environmental matters Recommended to the Board a change to the Groups Animal Welfare Policy which resulted in removing from sale attractions which involve captive orcas.
Approved a plastic strategy aimed at delivering a Group-wide approach to tackling the business single-use plastic footprint.
Approved a detailed review of the Groups approach to human rights and protecting against modern slavery across the Companys supply chain.
Monitored the performance of hotels in achieving a Travelife sustainability certification.
Monitored carbon reporting under the Carbon Disclosure Project and the Commitment to The Carbon Reduction Scheme and Airline fuel efficiency.
Monitored the Companys support for the Safer Tourism Foundation, a charity which works to improve the health and safety of tourists travelling overseas.
Government and Public Affairs Monitored the Groups engagement with stakeholders and policy makers in London, Brussels, and multiple other jurisdictions in respect of Brexit.
Monitored the Groups engagement with the independent Airline Insolvency Review chair and secretariat as they consider options for reform of the UKs airline insolvency regulations.
Oversaw proactive campaigning of the UK Government in respect of the Fixed Recoverable Cost regime being extended to holiday illness claims in response to a surge of fraudulent holiday illness claims.
Monitored the Groups engagement with Greece to reinforce and strengthen the Groups market-leading position in the country.
Monitored the Groups engagement with EU Member State Governments as they worked to implement the reformed Package Travel Directive 2015.
EMRE BERKIN CHAIRMAN OF THE HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE 28 November 2018 84
