Board of Directors Manfred Wennemer William Bill L. Kozyra Timothy Knutson Independent Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President Chief Financial Officer Appointment Appointment Appointment September 2016 June 2008 November 2008 Nationality Nationality Nationality Germany United States of America United States of America Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Manfred was appointed as NonWilliam was appointed as Chief Timothy joined the Group in Executive Chairman of TI Fluid Executive Officer and President of TI November 2008 and has served as Systems in October 2017 having been Fluid Systems in June 2008.
Prior to the Group Chief Financial Officer.
appointed to the Board in September joining the Group Bill held a number of Prior to joining TI Fluid Systems, 2016.
He has held a number of senior executive positions, including Tim was Chief Financial Officer of positions at Continental, including as that of President and Chief Executive Meridian Automotive Systems.
Prior Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Officer of Continental AG North to this position, Tim held a number of ContiTech.
Manfred is Chairman of America and a member of the of senior finance positions at Delphi the Supervisory Board of Jost Werke.
Executive Board of Continental AG Corporation in both the United States He is also Chairman of the Shareholder and senior roles at ITT Automotive and and Europe.
He began his career at Committee of Hella KGaA Hueck and Bosch Braking Systems.
Bill is also a General Motors.
a member of the Supervisory Board non-executive director of American of PIAB International.
Neil Carson OBE Paul Edgerley Elaine Sarsynski Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointment Appointment Appointment July 2015 August 2018 September 2016 Nationality Nationality Nationality United States of America United States of America United Kingdom Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Paul was appointed as a Director of Elaine was appointed as a NonNeil was appointed as Deputy TI Fluid Systems in July 2015 and Executive Director of TI Fluid Systems Chairman and Senior Independent as a Non-Executive Director of the in August 2018.
Elaine is currently a Director of TI Fluid Systems in Company in October 2017.
Paul is director on the board and a member October 2017 having been appointed currently a Senior Advisor to Bain of AXAs Audit Committee.
Elaine is to the Board in September 2016.
Neil Capital, where he served as a also a director of Horizon Technology was formerly Chief Executive Officer Managing Director from 1990 to 2016.
Finance Corporation, and is a member of Johnson Matthey.
Neil is nonPaul spent five years at Bain & of their Audit, Nominating and executive Chairman of TT Electronics Company and is also Chairman of Compensation Committees.
Elaine and was appointed Chairman of Sensata Technologies Holding and a was previously President of Oxford Instruments plc in December non-executive director of APEX Tool MassMutual Retirement Services 2018.
Neil was awarded an OBE for Group, AS Roma SpA, Boston and Chairwoman, CEO and President services to the Chemical Industry Basketball Partners Boston Celtics, of MassMutual International.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 38 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Stephen Thomas John Smith Jeffrey Vanneste Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment July 2015 October 2017 October 2017 Nationality Nationality Nationality United States of America United States of America United States of America Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Stephen was appointed as a Director John was appointed as an Jeffrey was appointed as an of TI Fluid Systems in July 2015 and Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director was formally appointed as a Nonof TI Fluid Systems in October 2017. of TI Fluid Systems in October 2017.
Executive Director of the Company in John has over 48 years of experience Jeffrey is currently Senior Vice October 2017.
Stephen joined Bain in the automotive industry, including President, Chief Financial Officer and Capital in 2007 and has been a 42 working with General Motors in a member of the Executive Council of Managing Director since 2015.
Prior to developing new technologies.
Prior to joining Lear, joining Bain Capital, Stephen was a held a range of senior positions with Jeff was Executive Vice President and Manager at Bain & Company.
Stephen General Motors, most recently as Chief Financial Officer for International is a non-executive director of American Group Vice President, Corporate Automotive Components Group.
Jeff Trailer Works and Innocor Inc. Planning & Alliances.
John is principal had previously spent over 15 years of Eagle Advisors and is also a working with Lear in various positions.
non-executive director of CEVA Jeff qualified as an accountant with Logistics AG and American Axle & Coopers & Lybrand currently, Manufacturing Holdings.
Committee membership Manfred Wennemer William L. Kozyra Andrea Dunstan Matthew Paroly Independent Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Timothy Knutson Neil Carson Appointment Appointment March 2019 July 2014 Andrea Dunstan Nationality Nationality Paul Edgerley United Kingdom United States of America Elaine Sarsynski John Smith Skills and experience Skills and experience Andrea was appointed as an Matthew was appointed as Chief Stephen Thomas Independent Non-Executive Director Legal Officer and Company Secretary Jeffrey Vanneste of TI Fluid Systems in March 2019. of TI Fluid Systems in July 2014.
Andrea has been an Executive HR Matthew has more than 20 years of Director for a number of companies, experience in private law practice and including Wincanton plc, AstraZeneca in-house executive and legal positions plc and Barclays Bank plc, and most with both public and private recently until 2017 was Chief People companies.
Prior to joining TI Fluid Officer for Premier Farnell plc.
Systems Matthew worked with Currently, she is a non-executive several automotive suppliers and director and chair of the remuneration manufacturers, including Nexteer committee at both Macfarlane Group Automotive, Fisker Automotive, plc and Sumo Group plc as well as an Meridian Automotive Systems and Key Executive Council member for the Delphi Corporation.
Matthew is a Chairman of the Committee University of Salford.
member of the State Bar of Michigan.
Member of the Committee TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination
