Corporate Governance report A summary of the main matters reserved for decision by the Board is set out below: Strategy and management Remuneration Oversight of the Groups operations Determine the Remuneration Policy for Directors, Approval of the long-term objectives and commercial Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives strategy review Determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors Approval of the annual financial budget and four year Introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes Medium Term Plan to existing plans Review of performance in light of the Groups strategic aims, Approval of new incentive plans to be put to shareholders objectives, business plan and budgets for approval Corporate structure and share capital Delegation of authority Changes to the Groups capital structure Approval of the written division of responsibilities between Major changes to the Groups corporate structure the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Significant changes to the Groups management and Establishing Board Committees, approving their terms of control structure reference and receiving reports from the Board Committees Issues of public debt by the Company Corporate governance Financial reporting and controls Review the Groups overall corporate governance structure Approval of financial statements Determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors Setting the Companys dividend policy Undertaking a formal and rigorous review of the Boards Approval of significant changes in accounting policy performance, that of its Committees and individual Directors and the division of responsibilities Consider the balance of interests between shareholders, Internal controls employees, customers and the community Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management Approval of the Groups compliance policies Policies Approval of policies, including the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, share dealing code, Health and Safety policy, Contracts corporate responsibility policy, anti-bribery policy, antiApproval of major capital projects slavery policy and anti-money laundering policy Approval of larger-scale non-standard contracts Approval of acquisitions and joint ventures Other areas Making of political donations Board membership Approve the overall levels of insurance for the Group Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board Appointment of external auditors Appointments to the Board, including selection and Shareholder engagement and general meetings appointment of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Annual budgets and financial expenditure and commitments Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary above levels set by the Board Membership and chairmanship of Board Committees Approval of the continuation in office of Directors, including Executive Directors TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 40 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The role and structure of the Board In the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 there The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the Group were five Board meetings, which all Directors attended.
In and has overall authority for the management and conduct of the addition, in the same period, there were four meetings of the Groups business, strategy and development.
The Board is also Audit & Risk Committee, two meetings of the Remuneration responsible for ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of Committee and one meeting of the Nomination Committee.
internal controls and risk management including operational, financial and compliance controls and for reviewing the overall The table below shows the Directors attendance at meetings of effectiveness of systems in place as well as for the approval of the Board and Committee s of which they were members and any changes to the capital, corporate and or management they were eligible to attend in the period from 1 January 2018 to structure of the Group.
31 December 2018: The Board operates in accordance with the Companys Articles Board of Association and the Boards written Delegation of Authority scheduled Audit which were approved by the Board in July 2015 and updated in meetings & Risk Remuneration Nomination October 2017.
The Board has established a number of Manfred 5 5 1 1 Committees, as set out on pages 42 to 43.
Each Committee has Wennemer its own terms of reference which are reviewed at least annually.
William L. 5 5 Kozyra The Board consists of the Independent Non-Executive Chairman, Timothy 5 5 the Senior Independent Director, four Independent NonKnutson Executive Directors, two Executive Directors and two NonExecutive Directors.
Neil Carson 5 5 4 4 2 2 1 1 Paul 5 5 1 1 Edgerley The Board meets formally five times a year, with additional ad-hoc meetings called as and when circumstances require.
Elaine 2 2 1 1 There is an annual calendar of agenda items to ensure that all Sarsynski matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the John Smith 5 5 4 4 2 2 appropriate time in the financial year.
Stephen 5 5 Thomas Jeffrey 5 5 4 4 2 2 Vanneste TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Corporate Governance report continued A summary of the key areas of responsibility of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are set out below: Role: Chairman Role: Chief Executive Officer Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibility for the leadership and effective running of the Responsible for running the business of the Company and Board and chairing its meetings its subsidiaries Ensuring the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall part in the development and determination of the Groups commercial objectives strategy and overall commercial objectives Regularly reviewing the Groups operational performance, Setting the agenda for and frequency of meetings of the cost control and operating efficiencies and recommending Board and ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely and to the Board the annual budget and financial plans for clear information on which to base decisions the Group Ensuring that adequate time is available for the Board to Report to the Chairman and the Board on the progress of the consider all agenda items strategy, the Groups performance and operational matters Promote a culture of openness and debate and facilitate the Maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman and the Board on effective contribution and active engagement of all directors important and strategic issues facing the Group Ensuring there is effective communication between the Providing a structure for the timely and accurate disclosure Group and its shareholders and that the Board understands of information the views of major investors in the Group Ensuring the Boards strategies, objectives and decisions are Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and implemented in a timely and effective manner corporate governance Develop senior talent and succession planning Ensuring constructive relations between the Non-Executive Progressing in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer and Executive Directors and, where relevant, the Chairman, the Companys Regularly considering the Boards succession planning and communication programme with its shareholders composition Ensuring effective communication with shareholders, Ensuring that the performance of the Board, its Committees employees and other stakeholders, in order to understand and individual Directors are formally and rigorously evaluated their concerns and communicate issues to the Board at least once a year Promoting and conducting the affairs of the Group with the Provide an independent perspective and constructive highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate challenge governance Safeguarding the reputation of the Group and managing the Groups risk profile Maintain strong relationships with OEM customers All Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board for leading the Non-Executive Directors in monitoring and and any Committees of which they are a member and are evaluating the performance of the Chairman and being available expected to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to shareholders if they have any concerns which contact through to fulfil their duties as Directors.
the normal channels of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such communication is inappropriate.
Neil Carson has been Key Board roles and responsibilities appointed as the Companys Senior Independent Non-Executive There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman Director.
Following Mr Carsons departure from the Board, the and the Chief Executive Officer which is written and approved by Board will continue its search for a qualified candidate to be the Board.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer appointed to the Board as an additional Independent Nonare separately held and the role of each are clear and distinct.
Executive Director and to serve as Senior Independent Director.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are set out in written terms of reference which were adopted by the Board on 24 October 2017.
The Audit & Risk Committee The Audit & Risk Committee is comprised of three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit & Risk Committee Chairman Senior Independent Director is Jeffrey Vanneste.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Board of Directors of a company with a premium listing on the Official List should appoint one of the Non-Executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to support him in the delivery of his objectives.
The Senior Independent Director is also responsible TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 42 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit & Risk The Company intends to appoint additional independent Committee are set out in written terms of reference and are Non-Executive Directors over time in keeping with the Corporate available on the Companys website tifluidsystems.
As the Board composition changes over time and when evaluating candidates for the Board membership, candidates are considered on merit, taking account of their Details of the Audit & Risk Committees activities can be found relevant skills and experience as well as recognising the benefits in the Audit & Risk Committee report on pages 47 to 52. of Boardroom diversity including gender, nationality, ethnicity and age.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is comprised of four Independent Disclosure of relationship agreement with Bain Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee Details of substantial shareholdings in the Companys ordinary Chairman is Neil Carson.
share capital are set out in the Directors report on pages 63-64.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Remuneration On 25 October 2017, the Company entered into an agreement Committee are set out in written terms of reference and are with its largest shareholders, the funds managed by Bain Capital available on the Companys website tifluidsystems.
and BC Omega Holdco, Ltd. the Institutional Shareholders.
The principal purpose of the agreement is to ensure that Details of the Remuneration Committees activities can be found following the Companys Admission and Listing, the Company in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 53 to 62. is able to carry on its business independently of the Institutional Shareholders and that transactions and relationships between The Nomination Committee the Company and the Institutional Shareholders are conducted The Nomination Committee is comprised of the Chairman, at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Board the Senior Independent Director and a Non-Executive Director.
confirms that so far as it is aware the Institutional Shareholders The Nomination Committee Chairman is Manfred Wennemer.
have complied with the undertakings in the agreements and the obligations therein.
Inter alia, the Institutional Shareholders have a right to nominate for appointment to the Board a two The main roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are set out in written terms of reference and are available on the Directors for so long as the Institutional Shareholders and their associates shareholding in the Company is equal to or more Companys website tifluidsystems.
than 25% and b one Director for so long as the Institutional Shareholders and their associates shareholding in the Company Details of the Nomination Committees activities can be found is equal to more than 10% but less than 25%.
in the Nomination Committee report on pages 45 to 46.
The terms of the appointment of the Non-Executive Directors Balance and independence does not specify the amount of time they are expected to devote In accordance with the main principle B.
1 of the Corporate to the Companys business.
However, it is estimated they will Governance Code, the Board and its Committees have an commit a minimum of one day per month which is calculated appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the based on the time required to prepare for attending Board and Group to enable them to discharge their respective duties and Committee meetings, and additional duties such as attendance responsibilities effectively.
The size and composition of the at the Annual General Meeting and meetings with shareholders.
Board is kept under review by the Nomination Committee to ensure an appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained.
Length of appointment Non-Executive Directors are appointed for terms of three years, subject to the particular Director being re-elected by shareholders, The Code recommends, in the case of a FTSE 350 company, for up to the normal maximum of three terms nine years.
that at least half the Board of Directors excluding the Chairman should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, who is considered Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association set out the policy for to be independent, two Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors comprise dealing with Directors conflicts of interest and are in line with the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has a formal system in Neil Carson, Senior Independent Director, Paul Edgerley, Elaine Sarsynski, John Smith, Stephen Thomas, Andrea Dunstan and place for Directors to declare conflicts of interest and for such conflicts to be considered for authorisation.
The Non-Executive Directors, Neil Carson, Andrea Dunstan, Elaine Sarsynski, John Smith and Jeffrey Vanneste, are considered to be independent in character and judgement, and free of any business or other relationship which could materially influence their judgement.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Corporate Governance report continued Training and development Dialogue with shareholders In preparation for admission, all Directors received an induction Prior to the IPO the Companys shareholders comprised briefing from the Companys legal advisers on the duties and funds managed by Bain Capital and a number of members responsibilities as Directors of a publicly quoted company.
As a result of the IPO, a larger shareholder In addition, upon their appointment all Directors receive an base has developed.
Investor relations activity and a review induction programme arranged by the Company Secretary, of the shareholder register are regular items in the Board including plant visits and meetings with key members of senior information pack.
management in order to familiarise themselves with the Group.
The Chairman sent an introductory letter to all the Companys Information and support top shareholders in order to ensure open communication.
In To enable the Board to function effectively and to assist the addition, the Executive Directors have met with a large number Directors in discharging their responsibilities, full and timely of investors and have engaged in active discussions with access is given to all relevant information to the Board.
In the shareholders and investors, both on an individual basis and case of Board meetings this consists of a formal agenda and a through roadshow events.
The Company aims to maintain an comprehensive set of papers including regular business progress active dialogue with key stakeholders, including institutional reports.
An established procedure is in place to ensure that such investors, to discuss issues relating to the performance of the information is provided to Directors in a timely manner in Group, including strategy and new developments.
Specific business-related presentations are given by senior management when appropriate.
The Company has an investor relations website which is publicly available and provides relevant information to both institutional The Company Secretary works closely with the Chairman, the investors and private shareholders, including performance Chief Executive Officer and the chairs of the Board Committees updates and announcements by the Company.
to ensure that Board procedures, including setting agendas and the timely distribution of papers, are complied with and that Annual General Meeting there are good communications flows between the Board and The Companys Annual General Meeting will take place on its Committees, and between senior management and Non- 16 May 2019 at The May Fair Hotel, Stratton Street, London W1J 8LT.
The Company Secretary is also available to A separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting is all Directors to provide advice and support, including facilitating being sent out with this Annual Report and Accounts.
All Directors are able to take independent votes are held for each proposed resolution.
At the Annual professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance General Meeting, after the formal business has been concluded, of their duties where considered necessary.
the Chairman will welcome questions from shareholders.
All Directors attend the meeting, at which they have the opportunity Re-election of Directors to meet with shareholders.
Details of the resolutions to be At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2019 all proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2019 and the Directors will be offering themselves for re-election apart an explanation of the items of special business can be found from Neil Carson who will be standing down from the Board in the circular that contains the notice convening the Annual after the Meeting.
Whistleblowing Approved by order of the Board The Company has established procedures by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns relating to some danger, Manfred Wennemer fraud, or other illegal or unethical conduct in the workplace.
The Chairman Whistleblowing Policy applies to all employees of the Group.
19 March 2019 The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and the policy is reviewed periodically by the Board.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 44
