Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Membership of the Audit & Risk Committee The Audit & Risk Committee comprises independent NonAudit & Risk Committee report Executive Directors of the Company as set out in the table below.
Brief biographical information on the members of the Audit & Risk Committee are listed on pages 38 to 39 including details of experience and competence relevant to the sector.
The Company Secretary, who is also Chief Legal Officer, acts as secretary to the Committee.
The following table shows the number of meetings held during 2018 and the attendance record of individual members of the Committee: Maximum Jeffrey Vanneste number of Audit & Risk Committee Number meetings the Chairman Date of of member appointment to the meetings could have Name of member Committee attended attended Jeffrey Vanneste 25 October 4 4 Dear Shareholder, 2017 I am pleased to present my second report as Chair of the Neil Carson 25 October 4 4 Audit and Risk Committee which outlines the Committees 2017 composition, main responsibilities and key areas of focus John Smith 25 October 4 4 in the Groups first full year as a listed entity.
2017 The core responsibility of the Committee is to provide an independent oversight in relation to the integrity of financial Following the year-end, the Committee met to review the reporting, the extent and effectiveness of internal financial Groups 2018 Annual Report.
controls and assurance processes: the monitoring of key risk management systems and processes and assessment of the The Audit & Risk Committee is scheduled to meet once a quarter effectiveness and independence of the Groups external auditors.
through the year and its agenda is linked to both the Groups This report covers the activities of the Committee throughout external reporting timetable and the internal financial cycle.
The 2018 and up to the date of this report.
Audit & Risk Committee invites the Chief Executive Officer and President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Controller and The terms of reference of the Audit & Risk Committee are Vice President Risk and other senior finance personnel, together available to view on the Companys website tifluidsystems.
with other senior representatives of the external and internal auditors, to attend certain meetings.
All other members of the Board have an open invitation to attend the meetings.
The Committee, when necessary, will meet in private with the internal and external auditors without management present as part of the overall meeting structure.
As the Chair of the Committee I had a number of private discussions with the lead external audit partner and all members met with his proposed successor.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Corporate Governance report continued The role of the Audit & Risk Committee Oversight of financial reporting The primary function of the Audit & Risk Committee is to assist The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the Annual the Board in discharging its responsibilities with regard to Report and other announcements with financial content all of financial reporting and the external and internal audit, including: which are prepared by management.
The Committee received reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Groups annual reports on the Annual and Interim financial statements from and interim financial statements management and the external auditor.
The auditors report advising on the appointment of the external auditors and including a summary of key audit matters is set out on pages overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors 68 to 75. reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the external audit process The Committee has: reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external considered the significant accounting judgements and policies auditors adopted in the respect of the Interim and Annual financial reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work statements and agreed their appropriateness undertaken by the Groups external auditors examined key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure making recommendations to the Board on accounting policies the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the financial reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and statements risk management programmes reviewed the content of the proposed news releases issued monitoring the activities and effectiveness of the Groups in conjunction with half year and full year results as well as internal audit function reviewing, on behalf of the Board, the quarterly Trading receiving reports from the Groups internal and external Updates issued in May and November 2018, respectively auditors discussed audit reports with the external auditors which making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be highlighted key accounting matters and significant judgements put to the shareholders for the appointment of the external in respect of each set of financial statements auditors, approval of their remuneration and terms of their reviewed and discussed reports to support managements engagement assessment of the going concern judgement and the viability review of the Group risk registers and advising the Board statement set out on page 32. on the effectiveness of risk action plans The Groups risk related to Brexit was reviewed and supported reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the as being limited.
whistleblowing and anti-bribery policy and procedures.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 48 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Significant accounting matters The issues and judgements considered below were identified by the Committee as significant to the preparation of the 2018 Financial Statements: Key accounting judgements Work undertaken Warranty provision We considered the judgements made by management The Group is subject to warranty claims in the event that its in assessing the likelihood and quantification of material products fail to perform as per specifications.
This included: provisions are made to cover potential exposures that relate understanding the nature of the specific claims and to specific customer claims.
correspondence with customers assessing managements evaluation of the likelihood and quantum of exposure and the status of negotiations Key judgements are made in calculating the provision and with the customer.
these are dependent on the customer, complexity of the issue and the negotiation process.
The outcome of claims is often difficult to predict and quantify.
We obtained the external auditors views in relation to the appropriateness of the approach taken by management.
Taking into account the evidence presented and explanations given by management we concluded that the judgements taken in respect of warranty matters were reasonable and appropriate.
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment As part of the annual impairment review, we considered All cash generating units CGUs containing goodwill and a summary report from management explaining the intangible assets are tested for impairment annually.
The methodology, assumptions and results of the impairment test.
determination of CGUs and the recoverable amount requires judgement by management in both identifying and valuing the We specifically reviewed the discount rates used to calculate relevant CGUs.
expected future cash flows at their present value ensuring appropriate consideration of inherent risk and geography had Key judgements and estimates are involved in completion of been factored in.
impairment reviews including cash flow forecasts, discount rates and long-term growth rates.
A change in these Additionally our review considered the disclosures of key assumptions can result in a material change in the valuation estimates and judgements in the financial statements along of the assets.
with the extent and appropriateness of sensitivities performed by management and the extent of disclosures made.
The impairment reviews were also an area of focus for  LLP and we considered their report.
We were satisfied with the approach taken by management and concluded that the judgements and estimates used in the impairment assessment were reasonable and the conclusion of no impairment in 2018 was appropriate.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Corporate Governance report continued Key accounting judgements Work undertaken Deferred tax asset recognition and provision for We reviewed summary reports from management in respect uncertain tax positions of estimates of tax exposures to assess the reasonableness of The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to the Groups tax provisions.
Information provided has included tax laws in many jurisdictions.
specialist tax advice in applicable jurisdictions and updates on specific ongoing audits.
Provisions are made for uncertain tax positions which involve judgement and estimates by management as to the likelihood The recognition of deferred tax assets have been reviewed to of their realisation.
Recognition of deferred tax assets also involves judgement as  LLP also reported to the Committee to their realisation, including whether there will be sufficient its findings in this area which have been reviewed and taxable profits in future periods to support recognition.
The Committee was satisfied with the judgements, estimates and that disclosures were reasonable and appropriate.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made are External Auditors reasonable and appropriate disclosures have been included in the The Audit & Risk Committee are very aware the effectiveness financial statements.
and independence of the external auditor is central to ensuring the integrity of the Groups published financial information.
Other financial reporting matters Presentation of financial statements During 2018 the Committees engagement with the external The Board uses adjusted results as the measure of ongoing auditor has mainly focussed on: performance of the Group and its Divisions.
This approach the review and approval of  LLPs necessitates the exclusion of certain items of income or charge 2018 audit plan, terms of engagement and fee for the audit that are felt to distort comparability of performance.
In of the 2018 financial statements considering the presentation of the 2018 financial statements review of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness the Committee re-assessed the appropriateness of the non-IFRS of  LLP measures used by the Group and considered the extent and concluding a recommendation to the Board to reappoint clarity of explanation supporting the use of these measures.
 LLP The Committee was satisfied that the 2018 Annual Report satisfying ourselves that the level of non-audit services disclosures were appropriate.
provided by  LLP was compliant with external regulation and internal policies considering, along with management, the proposed new New accounting standards external audit partner for the 2019 external audit.
2018 has seen the Group adopt IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
In conjunction with the Annual and Interim 2018 Financial The Committee approved the proposed external audit plan and Statements the Committee received reports and explanations its scope at its meeting in November 2018.
Our consideration of of the impact of these standards including the details of the the plan involved an assessment of the size of entities covered necessary disclosures.
The Committee considered the and the level of risk associated with those entities.
The appropriateness of disclosures and judgements made with Committee was satisfied that the proposed risk based approach regard to these standards and were satisfied with the approach was appropriate and commensurate with the Groups risk and treatments adopted.
appetite in respect of external audit assurance.
The key audit matters identified by  LLP are set out in its report on page 70 and were reviewed by the Committee Additionally at its meetings in August and November 2018 the in approving the 2018 audit scope and plan.
Committee received updates on the progress being made in preparing the Group to adopt IFRS 16 Leases.
These updates included details of the Groups approach to data collection, lease valuation and accounting and reporting.
The disclosures given in the 2018 financial statements were reviewed by the Committee and having taken into account points raised by the external auditor these were concluded as acceptable.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 50 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information In assessing the effectiveness of  LLP Having considering all factors the Committee has concluded that the Committee had regard to a number of factors which included  LLP remain appropriately independent.
but were not limited to: their feedback and insights on the Groups business, internal Taking all matters of effectiveness, independence and objectivity control systems and attitude towards control into consideration the Committee has concluded that it was the planning process and final audit plan for the 2018 financial appropriate to recommend to the Board of Directors the statements reappointment of  LLP as the Companys the quality of reporting to the Committee auditors for 2019. their performance during the 2018 half-year review process feedback from senior management on the quality of Internal control and risk management engagement with them The Group continued in 2018 to refine its processes and controls globally to reflect changes to its internal control framework.
The In summary the Committee considers both Groups system of internal controls, along with its design and  LLP and its audit processes to be operating effectiveness, is subject to review by the Audit & Risk effective.
 LLP have a good Committee, in addition to review by the Internal and External understanding of the Group and its businesses including the auditors.
Control deficiencies identified are followed up with financial reporting and control challenges facing the Group.
This action plans that are reviewed by the Audit & Risk Committee.
understanding is accompanied by robust challenge of the The Board has established policies and procedures, including significant judgements made by management.
delegations of authority, which have been communicated across the Group.
Auditor independence and non-audit services In order to ensure the external auditors independence, the In executing the Committees remit for monitoring the financial Committee annually reviews the Companys relationship with reporting process and for reviewing the effectiveness of the its auditors and assesses the level of controls and procedures in Groups system of internal controls the Committee undertook place to ensure the required level of independence and that the the following review work: Company has an objective and professional relationship with considered reports from Internal Audit on the outcomes of  LLP.
As previously agreed the 2018 the 2018 Plan audit will be the final audit led by Mr Chris Hibbs, he having discussed the status and actions relating to control issues reached the tenure limit.
During 2018 both management and raised via the Groups whistleblowing hotline members of the Committee considered and met candidates to monitored the feedback from special project reviews replace Mr Hibbs.
The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied performed by Internal Audit with the proposed appointment of Mr Andrew Hammond as the reviewed and approved the proposed Internal Audit plan lead audit engagement partner for 2019. for 2019 discussed with the external audit their findings and The Committee has received confirmation from perspectives on the Groups internal control framework  LLP that they remained independent and objective within the context of applicable professional Internal audit plays an important role in assessing the standards throughout 2018 and the duration of the 2018 audit effectiveness of internal controls by a programme of reviews of appointment.
key business risks across the Group.
The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function and a formal audit plan is in place to In order to safeguard auditor independence the Committee address the key risks across the Group.
The Audit & Risk has adopted a formal policy governing the engagement of the Committee considers and approves the internal audit plan, which external auditor.
This policy effectively limits the use of the is based on an assessment of the key risks faced by the Group.
external auditor to work that is of an assurance nature only Progress in respect of the plan is monitored throughout the year prohibiting their ability to undertake work in relation to tax and and care is taken to ensure that the Internal Audit function has consultancy services.
sufficient resource to complete the plan.
The audit plan may be reviewed during the year as a result of the ongoing assessment of the key risks or in response to the needs of the Group.
The Any proposed non-audit service engagement has to be Director of Internal Audit reports ultimately to the Chairman of approved by the Group Controller & VP Risk on behalf of the the Audit & Risk Committee, although he reports on a day-to-day Committee and only if it is within acceptable financial basis to the Chief Financial Officer.
A report on completed parameters and confirmation has been received from internal audits is presented to the Committee and, where  LLP that the service does not appropriate, action plans are reviewed.
There were no significant engagements or categories of engagements of the external auditors for non-audit services during 2018.
Details of the fees paid to  LLP in 2018 can be found in Note 30 on page 128 of the financial statements.
In line with our policy these fees related principally to audit-related assurance services.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Corporate Governance report continued The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and we can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a clear organisational structure with defined authority levels.
The day-to-day running of the Groups business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the Group.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk appetite and ensuring there is an effective risk management framework.
The Board has delegated responsibility for review of the risk management programme and effectiveness of internal controls to the Audit & Risk Committee.
In its first year as a public company, the Group commenced its consideration of a formalised risk management programme including consideration of an appropriate methodology and process design.
This framework seeks to identify and correlate the Groups principal risks with mitigating activities and processes.
Further work in this area will be undertaken in 2019.
Further information on the Groups formative risk management programme and the risks and uncertainties which are judged to have the most significant impact on the Groups long-term performance and prospects are set out on pages 21 to 23.
The Audit & Risk Committee has reviewed the assessment of the Groups principal risks, the impact on the prospects for the Group and the mitigating actions and the Board has confirmed that a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks had been undertaken.
Other matters During the year the Committee: received an overview report on the Groups Insurance programme including details of the 2018 renewal pricing.
reviewed and approved the Parent Profit and Loss Account for the year on behalf of the Board pursuant to compliance with s408 Companies Act 2006 had a briefing on the programme to select a new Group-wide financial reporting system reviewed and recommended to the Board the proposal for the level of the 2018 Interim dividend reviewed and recommended the 2018 debt refinancing proposal made by management.
reviewed tax positions and rates received an update on the Groups cyber security activities including the programme of activities to enhance resilience across the Group in this area.
Jeffrey Vanneste Audit & Risk Committee Chairman 19 March 2019 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 52
