Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Membership and Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee report The Committee was comprised of the Chairman, Manfred Wennemer, the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Neil Carson, and the Non-Executive Director, Paul Edgerley.
The Board considers the majority of the members of the Nomination Committee to be independent.
The current Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee, approved in October 2017 and reviewed for appropriateness in December 2018, are available to view on the Companys website tifluidsystems.
Board composition Manfred Wennemer The Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Nomination Committee Chairman, should consist of Non-Executive Directors determined Chairman by the Board to be independent.
Until August 2018, the Board comprised eight Directors, Key highlights including the Independent Non-Executive Chairman, the Senior Review composition of the Board Independent Director, two Independent Non-Executive The appointment of Elaine Sarsynski on 14 August 2018 and Directors, two Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Andrea Dunstan on 8 March 2019 Directors.
In August 2018, the Company appointed an additional Development of the Non-Executive Director Induction programme Independent Non-Executive Director, increasing the level of Consider further recruitment of additional independent independence and bringing the Board into full compliance with Non-Executive Directors the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code.
The further Internal Board and Committee evaluation review appointment of an Independent Non-Executive Director in March Monitoring of UK Corporate Governance 2019 increases further the level of compliance.
Dear Shareholder, With Neil Carson stepping down following the AGM in May During the year, the Nomination Committee, formed prior to the 2019, the Committee will continue to seek candidates for listing in October 2017, made recommendations to ensure that a appointment to our Board that will further strengthen the robust and appropriate Board was maintained.
Having completed Board in terms of experience, skills, diversity and independence our first full year in public life, considerable focus has been on of the Board.
enhancing the necessary mix of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board to drive the strategic objectives of The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive the business.
Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General The 2018 key highlights are noted above and include the annual Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the review of the composition of the Board.
This review led to the meeting.
Non-Executive Director recruitment process, successfully resulting in the appointment of Elaine Sarsynski and Andrea Recruitment process Dunstan in March 2019.
Elaine has brought considerable financial As noted previously, Elaine Sarsynski was appointed to the services experience as director on the board of AXA SA, the Board in August 2018, following her identification as a candidate French multinational insurance firm, and her previous experience through our external search.
Prior to her appointment, Elaine met with Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company.
Andrea the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and other members of the has brought extensive HR experience with Wincanton plc, Board.
References were collected and the Committee agreed AstraZeneca plc and Barclays Bank plc and, until 2017, was Chief that Elaine had strong functional expertise in finance, strategy People Officer for Premier Farnell plc.
Both appointments will and legal matters.
The Committee appointed Spencer Stuart further enhance the Boards capabilities and skills.
search consultants to lead the searches and the Chairman agreed to the Non-Executive Director profiles and provided input into The Committee also led the Board evaluation process which is a shortlists of candidates for the roles.
In accordance with the conducted each year.
The results demonstrated many core 2016 Corporate Governance Code, the Company confirms that strengths and some areas for future development, including it has no connection to Spencer Stuart.
You can see Elaine and incorporating more in-depth strategic planning sessions as well Andreas biographies on pages 38 and 39. as increased professional development with respect to industry trends and analysis into the annual Board programme for 2019.
The Committee also led the Boards review of the revised Corporate Governance Code in order to establish a firm foundation for the additional requirements to be implemented with the application of the revised Code in January 2019.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Corporate Governance report continued Diversity Action plan for 2019 With the appointment of Elaine Sarsynski and Andrea Dunstan Below are some of the issues that the Nomination Committee to the Board, women now comprise 20% of the Board.
At plans to consider as part of an Action Plan for the year ahead: 31 December 2018, women represented approximately 28% Review of the skills and independence of each of the Nonof the Groups total workforce.
At present, the Executive Executive Directors Committee CEO and his direct reports does not include any Recommend the re-election of all Directors apart from women, but 33% of senior management reporting to the Elaine Sarsynski and Andrea Dunstan who are being proposed Executive Committee are women.
The Board recognises that for initial election following their appointment diversity includes not only the Board but extends beyond the Consider the appointment of additional independent Nonboardroom and, therefore, supports management efforts to build Executive Directors a diverse organisation at all levels.
The Company believes in Promote Board and management diversity promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation while ensuring Review the Committee Terms of Reference.
appointments are made on merit and there is an appropriate balance of skills and experience both within the Board, senior Manfred Wennemer management and other levels of the organisation.
Nomination Committee Chairman 19 March 2019 Key issues reviewed by the Committee in the year During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Nomination Committee has met once and considered the following issues: A review of the composition of the Board and Committee membership Re-appointment of the Non-Executive Directors at its first AGM Appointment of Elaine Sarsynski as Non-Executive Director and oversight of her induction plan A review of site visits undertaken by Board members Progress on succession planning Updates on diversity and inclusion on the Board and throughout the organisation Annual review of the effectiveness of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, led by the Senior Independent Director and Chairman respectively Annual review of Independence of Non-Executive Directors in line with the criteria set by the Code Review the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board Establishing an induction programme for Non-Executive Directors Arranging the Board evaluation programme and agreement on a development plan.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 46
