56 Governance report Board in conversation A view from the Non-executive Directors on how the Board drives effective governance throughout the organisation for the benefit of its stakeholders.
Q How is our Company purpose, values Q What steps were taken to ensure Q What steps has the Board taken to and strategy aligned to culture?
an orderly succession process for ensure that management identifies the Chairman?
and addresses future challenges and opportunities brought about by changes in technology?
A Rupert Robson A Angela Knight A David Shalders Chairman Senior Independent Independent Non-executive Non-executive Director Director and Chair of the Risk Committee The Board recognises that culture, based on Following the announcement of Rupert The changing landscape of technology is the Companys core values, is fundamental Robsons intention to retire as Chairman, an important consideration for the Board in to the long-term success of the business and I led the search for his successor and chaired developing its strategy and determining its integral to helping the business meet its the meetings of the Nominations and risk appetite, especially in the areas of data, clients needs.
Governance Committee where the search analytics and digital execution.
and recommendation for appointment of The Board plays an important role in Technology was a key focus of our Strategy the new Chairman was discussed.
All the aligning the Companys purpose and Day where the Board considered how to Non-executive Directors were therefore strategy to our core values of honesty, leverage technology to improve long-term involved with the exception of Rupert integrity, respect and excellence which growth and discussed the Companys IT Robson who had no involvement in underpin our culture and set out the type strategy in order to enhance operational the search.
of organisation we want to be.
Through regular reports from values are reflected within our Code of The formal search process was supported the Chief Executive Officer, the Board gains Conduct and are built into the performance by Russell Reynolds, an independent search insight into managements approach to management process for all employees.
consultancy which had been hired to provide identifying opportunities arising from The Board receives regular updates on assistance to the Committee for this purpose.
The Company has culture and conduct through Board The Committee created a candidate also set up a Technology sub-committee presentations, a culture monitor report that specification and skills requirements, which as a dedicated forum to consider future measures progress against specific goals, as included the expected time commitment.
technologies and talent development well as feedback from employee surveys.
This was used by Russell Reynolds to identify with participation from myself and other potential external candidates in the market.
The sub-committee With this oversight, the Board is able to set All the members of the Committee will support the Board in keeping up to date the tone from the top and ensure that culture individually met with the shortlisted with changes relevant to the business, remains a key consideration when developing candidates and reflected on the skills and particularly in relation to cloud, artificial and reviewing the implementation of the experience that the candidates brought intelligence machine learning and agile Groups long-term strategy.
followed in late 2018, where the final Read more about our strategy in the The Board recognises that some of its decision was made to recommend the Strategic report on pages 16 and 17. principal risks have arisen through changes appointment of Richard Berliand.
to technology and is mindful of the need to Towards the end of the selection process, maintain oversight of, and mitigate, these it was agreed that it would be in the best risks to ensure our infrastructure remains interests of the Company for Rupert to resilient.
The Risk Committee has begun remain as Chairman until the end of the carrying out deep dives on specific areas Companys 2019 AGM to ensure a smooth to make sure they are being addressed handover and orderly succession.
effectively and regular updates on cybersecurity and technology are presented Read more about the activities of to the Risk Committee.
the Nominations and Governance Committee on page 68.
Read more about risk management in the Risk Committee Report on page 76.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 57 Q How will the Board take into account Q How have you consulted the views of its workforce?
with shareholders on the new Remuneration Policy?
A Michael Heaney A Lorraine Trainer Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director Following changes to the UK Corporate Following the decision to put a new Governance Code at the end of 2018 on Executive Directors Remuneration Policy to how companies should approach workforce shareholders subsequent to the appointment representation and engagement, the of the new executive team, we embarked on decision has been made to have three an exercise to consult with shareholders.
designated Workforce Engagement We have a quite concentrated register with Non-executive Directors myself, Edmund Ng the top five shareholders currently holding and Lorraine Trainer to cover the three key nearly 50% of the shares.
With this in mind regions: the Americas, Asia Pacific and we began by consulting with this group.
Having received some helpful feedback, we The designated Non-executive Directors made some changes and were able to go out will meet with the regional Heads of HR to to the next ten largest shareholders inviting discuss key themes and implications from the them to comment or to request a meeting.
results of regional engagement surveys, as Stephen Pull and I consulted with the well as culture dashboards and other data Remuneration Committee and shared with relating to culture.
Direct employee contact them a summary of the feedback we had sessions will be scheduled between the received.
As is normal in a consultation Workforce Engagement Non-executive process, we had received some common and Directors and employees to better some differing views.
The Committee took understand and provide more colour to all these into account in presenting the Policy the key themes from the survey, and also to to you that is now in this report.
give employees an opportunity to provide unfiltered feedback.
The intention is that Read more about our Remuneration this happens twice a year and in each case Policy on page 98. actions agreed from the previous session are reviewed.
After each engagement cycle a written summary is produced and the respective Workforce Engagement Non-executive Director will report back to the Board.
Read more about our workforce and other stakeholder engagement on pages 66 and 67. www.
