58 Governance report Corporate governance report The role of the Board and its committees Leadership Division of Responsibilities The Board is collectively responsible for the The roles of the Chairman and Chief effective oversight of the Company and the Board meetings Executive Officer are separate and long-term success of its business.
The formal The Board has a schedule of eight meetings a formal Statement of Division of Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board a year to discuss the Groups ordinary course Responsibilities has been adopted by describes the role and responsibilities of the of business in accordance with a detailed the Company which can be found on the Board in full and is subject to annual review.
annual forward agenda developed by the Companys website at www.
The Matters Reserved can be found on the Chairman and the Company Secretary, and Companys website at www.
Every effort is made to Chairman: Independent on appointment arrange Board meetings so all Directors can and leads the Board by facilitating the The Board delegates some of its attend.
Additional meetings are arranged effective contribution of all Directors responsibilities to the Audit, Nominations as required.
and ensuring high standards of and Governance, Risk and Remuneration corporate governance.
He chairs the Committees, through agreed Terms of 2018 Board meeting attendance Board meetings, sets the Board agendas Reference which are subject to annual and promotes effective relationships Meetings review.
The responsibilities of each 1 between the Executive Directors and Director attended committee are described in the governance Non-executive Directors.
framework opposite and in the relevant Rupert Robson 8 8 2 committee reports.
John Phizackerley 4 4 Chief Executive Officer: Accountable Angela Knight 8 8 to, and reports to, the Board.
He is There are also two executive level Roger Perkin 8 8 responsible for developing and Committees chaired by the Chief Executive Stephen Pull 8 8 implementing the strategy, setting the Officer which are the Group Executive 3 Carol Sergeant 7 8 cultural tone throughout the organisation Committee GEC and the Group Risk, 4 David Shalders 7 8 and providing coherent executive Culture and Conduct Committee GRCCC Edmund Ng 8 8 leadership in running the Groups previously the Group Executive Risk Michael Heaney 8 8 operations and activities.
The responsibilities 5 Lorraine Trainer 4 4 of these Committees are also described in 6 Executive Directors: Support the Chief Nicolas Breteau 4 4 the governance framework on page 59.
7 Executive Officer in developing and Robin Stewart 4 4 The names, responsibilities and biographies 8 implementing the Group strategy and Philip Price 3 3 of members of the GEC can be found on the leading the Company.
1 In addition to the scheduled meetings, seven further Non-executive Directors: Independent ad hoc meetings were held at short notice during A framework is in place, approved by the the year.
All eligible members were able to attend of management, they assist in developing Board, setting out authority levels delegated these meetings except for the following Directors and approving the strategy.
Non-executive by the Board to individual Directors and due to previous commitments which could not be Directors provide advice and constructive rearranged: Michael Heaney in March and May senior management.
The Company has challenge to management and serve on and both Carol Sergeant and Edmund Ng in May.
clearly defined policies, processes, controls the Board Committees.
2 John Phizackerley stepped down as a Director of and procedures which are subject to TP ICAP plc on 9 July 2018. continuous review in order to meet the 3 Carol Sergeant stepped down as a Director of Senior Independent Director: Discusses TP ICAP plc on 31 December 2018.
She was unable requirements of the business, the regulatory with shareholders any concerns they to attend the Board meeting in December 2018. environment and the market.
have failed to resolve through the normal 4 David Shalders was unable to attend the Board channels of Chairman, Chief Executive meeting in December 2018 due to a previous The Company Secretary advises the Board commitment relating to his external executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, or for on matters of corporate governance and position which could not be rearranged.
which such contact is inappropriate.
She 5 Lorraine Trainer was appointed as a Director ensures that the correct Board procedures also provides a sounding board for the of TP ICAP plc on 1 July 2018. are followed.
All members of the Board and Chairman and is available to act as 6 Nicolas Breteau was appointed as a Director Committees have access to the services of of TP ICAP plc on 10 July 2018. an intermediary for other Directors the Company Secretary.
7 Robin Stewart was appointed as a Director when necessary.
8 Philip Price was appointed as a Director of TP ICAP plc on 3 September 2018.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 59 Governance framework Board The Board has principal responsibility for promoting the long-term success of the Company.
Sets the Determines Ensures that Establishes and Groups Determines what the Groups risk controls and risk Provides strategic promotes the strategy, against matters are appetite and management leadership Companys culture, which it monitors reserved for decision nature and extent of systems are values and ethics managements of the Board the principal risks rigorous performance Committees Audit Nominations and Risk Remuneration The Committee ensures the Governance The Committee reviews and The Committee is responsible governance and integrity The Committee is responsible makes recommendations to for developing, maintaining of financial reporting and for reviewing the balance of the Board on the Groups risk and recommending to the disclosures, reviewing the skills, knowledge, experience appetite, risk principles and Board formal and transparent controls in place.
It oversees and diversity of the Board, policies so the risks are policies on remuneration for the internal audit function making recommendations reasonable and appropriate the Companys employees, and the relationship with the for Board and committee for the Group, and can be including the Directors external auditors.
appointments and managed and controlled Remuneration Policy.
It makes monitoring succession plans.
within the limits of the recommendations to the It also has responsibility Groups resources.
It ensures Board on the remuneration for reviewing and making adherence to risk principles packages of the Executive recommendations on all and thresholds.
Directors and other members matters of corporate of senior management, in governance.
Group Executive Committee Group Risk, Culture and Conduct Committee The Committee is responsible for ensuring the successful The Committee is responsible for providing executive oversight implementation of strategy, and monitors the commercial and of the Groups enterprise risk management framework, reviewing financial performance across the regions, global business lines and maintaining progress against cultural objectives and and corporate functions.
monitoring conduct within the Group.
com 60 Governance report Corporate governance report continued The Board activities pie chart below and the The Boards activities Board Strategy Day table on page 61 show how the Board spent During 2018, the Board held its June meeting In May 2018, the Board held a Strategy its time at Board meetings and the Strategy in New York and its September meeting in Day offsite to discuss key areas of focus Day during the year, including the key areas Belfast.
The New York office is the principal related to future strategy.
The Board of focus and discussion.
head office of the Americas, and gave the was joined by members of the Group Board the chance to gain insight into the Executive Committee and advisers, regions performance, objectives, and considered and deliberated upon How the Board spent its time during opportunities and risks.
The Belfast offices presentations from senior managers the year in scheduled meetings % headcount and capabilities have increased on the following strategic themes: during 2018, especially in the IT and Operations departments.
Therefore, holding ten year outlook on capital markets the Board meeting there in September gave and the concept of ecosystems in the Directors an opportunity to see how financial services: this transition was progressing, as well as the Global Broking strategy: offering the opportunity to interact with the Data & Analytics strategy: regional management and staff.
In May the Institutional Services strategy: 2018 the Board and senior management the Energy & Commodities strategy: also held a Strategy Day offsite meeting people and HR: in London.
operational excellence: and market updates.
CEO update including strategy 30% On two occasions during the year the CFO update including dividend Non-executive Directors held meetings and tax matters 18% There was a follow up at the Board without the Executive Directors present Routine matters 13% meeting in June, at which the Board where they reviewed the performance Business management examined the main themes of the of the executive management team.
updates including culture 10% transformation strategy and considered Non-executive Director only meetings Risk management and audit and agreed where the main focus for including Brexit 8% are scheduled periodically throughout the investment would be in 2019.
Legal and compliance 8% year to facilitate full and frank discussion.
M&A 5% Investor relations 4% In addition to the scheduled meetings, seven off-cycle Board meetings were Governance and policy 4% held throughout the year in which the Board discussed, amongst other things, management performance and changes to the Board.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 61 Key agenda items discussed by the Board Some of the key strategic priorities and areas discussed and reviewed by the Board in 2018 are shown below: Strategic and operational priorities Key activities and discussions Strategy formulation Regular Chief Executive Officer's reports and monitoring Acquisition strategy Regular reports on integration Reports from the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions Presentation from the Head of Client Relationship Management Strategy Day and follow up see page 60 Build and sustain technology Technology updates, including on desk electronification leadership Presentation on technology integration and growth initiatives Develop our people Culture measurement Employee development and succession planning Workforce engagement discussions and proposal considerations Gender Pay Gap review Enhance operational Presentation on operations expertise Communications strategy Regular reports on integration and integration metrics Visited the New York and Belfast offices Financial performance, Regular Chief Financial Officers reports including financial performance including results, capital Five year financial plan and liquidity Financial strategy Approval of the 2018 Group budget Approval of 2017 year end results, the Annual Report and Accounts, the AGM circular and dividends Approval of interim results and review of trading statements Viability statement and going concern Pillar 3 disclosures Governance and risk, including Reports of the activities of the Audit, Risk, Remuneration and Nominations and Governance Committees regulatory outcomes Withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and consequences for the Group Regular legal and compliance reports Conflicts of interest Corporate governance updates Board appointments Board and committee evaluation Securities dealing code update Engagement with the FCA Review of modern slavery statement Stakeholders and society CSR strategy Investor relations reports and shareholder analysis Review of the charitable giving policy www.
com 62 Governance report Corporate governance report continued Management of conflicts of interests Composition of the Board Effectiveness At the start of each meeting, the Directors as at 31 December 2018 are invited to advise of any conflicts or Gender Board composition potential conflicts in respect of any item At the year end the Board comprised three on that meetings agenda.
Male 9 Executive Directors, eight Independent Female 3 Non-executive Directors and a Non-executive The Nominations and Governance Chairman.
Well over half the Board was Committee reviews at each of its meetings composed of Independent Non-executive the Companys Conflicts and Relevant Directors throughout 2018 and this remains Situations Register, which sets out the case as at the date of this report with a information on Directors conflicts that total of eight Non-executive Directors.
have either been authorised in accordance with section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 The Board recognises that a balanced or declared in accordance with section 177 Board, with a broad range of skills, experience, of the Companies Act 2006, as well as knowledge and diversity, is more likely to Nationality setting out Directors other directorships.
The Directors At any time the Board considers a Director biographies on pages 54 and 55 and pie British 9 appointment, the Board is also invited to charts on this page demonstrate the depth French 1 consider an extract of the Conflicts and and breadth of the Boards experience and American 1 Relevant Situations Register for the skillset.
The pie charts on this page reflect Canadian 1 individual under consideration, and is the constitution of the Board as at asked to authorise conflicts as necessary.
Terms of appointment Independence of Directors The terms of the Directors service The Board continually assesses the agreements and letters of appointment are independence of each of the Non-executive summarised in the Directors Remuneration Directors and has determined that all of the Report on pages 106 and 107.
Each of the Non-executive Directors are independent in Skills mapping Directors is subject to annual re-election by character and judgement.
The service agreements and Banking 11 the letters of appointment are available for None of the Non-executive Directors or Broking 4 inspection during normal business hours their immediate families have received Operational 4 at our registered office, and at the AGM additional remuneration apart from Regulatory 4 from 15 minutes prior to the meeting until Directors fees and the Board believes Risk 3 its conclusion.
that there are no relationships, conflicts Accounting 2 of interest or other circumstances which Technology 1 External appointments are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, The Directors other directorships are set any Directors judgement.
out in the biographies on pages 54 and 55.
The Board continually monitors external Tenure appointments to ensure that all Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the 0-3 years 6 Company to discharge their responsibilities 3-6 years 2 effectively.
The Board allows Executive 6 years 4 Directors to take up appointments with other companies provided the time involved is not too onerous and would not conflict with their duties at TP ICAP.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 63 Keeping the Board informed Board training and development The Board and its committees are provided All Directors receive a comprehensive with appropriate and timely information.
induction on joining the Board.
Further detail All Directors receive written reports before with regard to the induction provided to the each meeting, helping them make informed two Non-executive Directors appointed decisions on corporate and business issues.
during the year is set out in the Nominations and Governance Committee Report on The Group has a comprehensive system page 70. for financial reporting, subject to review by internal and external audit.
Budgets, The Chairman is responsible for ensuring regular forecasts and monthly management Directors continually update their skills accounts including KPIs, income statements, and knowledge, and familiarity with the balance sheets and cash flows are prepared Company, so as to fulfil their role.
Each of and the Board reviews consolidated reports the main Board committees receives regular of these.
briefings on relevant current developments.
The Board is kept informed of any material All Board and Board committee meetings shareholder correspondence, broker reports are minuted and any unresolved concerns on the Company and sector, institutional are recorded in the minutes.
The Company voting agency recommendations and Secretary and Group General Counsel are documents reflecting current shareholder responsible for ensuring the Board stays thinking.
In addition, members of the GEC up to date with key changes in legislation make regular presentations to the Board.
which affect the Company, and there are procedures in place for taking independent The Non-executive Directors take professional advice at the Companys advantage of relevant conferences, expense, if required.
seminars and training events, and receive training materials from the Company and The Board continually monitors the quality of other professional advisers.
They are also the information it receives to ensure it is clear, able to meet members of the management comprehensive and helps the Board to carry teams regularly, and periodically visit the out its duties.
Board Intelligence has been Companys international offices, usually in engaged to assist in this regard and to connection with other activities.
review and refine the information that goes to the Board, as well as how it is presented.
To facilitate this review, the Board considered its priorities which were used to focus forward agendas and Board papers.
Training has also been offered to business leaders and presenters to provide them with the necessary tools to write clear and consistent papers which facilitate focused discussions on pertinent matters.
com 64 Governance report Corporate governance report continued Board evaluation The 2018 Board and committees evaluation process was internally facilitated and is illustrated in the following diagram: 1 2 3 4 5 Detailed and Electronic Collation of the Review by the Presentation of comprehensive completion and responses by the Chairman of the the findings and web-based bespoke return by individual Company Secretary Board or respective proposed actions questionnaires Directors and other and preparation of chairman of the to the Board and designed by the designated senior anonymised reports committee of committees on a Company Secretary managers each performance non-attributable in consultation with area, proposing basis for discussion the Chairman of potential action at meetings in the Board and plans designed to January and March respective chairmen address the findings, 2019 and agreement of each committee for discussion at of action plans each forum Progress against 2017 actions The outcome of the 2017 Board evaluation exercise, which was internally facilitated, was reported in detail in last years Annual Report.
The main action points arising from that exercise, and action taken in respect of each, are set out in the table below.
2017 evaluation recommendations Progress made during the year Optimise Board and senior management succession planning The Nominations and Governance Committee received presentations during the year from the Group Head of HR on succession planning and the senior executive talent pipeline.
Senior management succession will continue to be considered by the Nominations and Governance Committee with recommendations made to the Board as appropriate.
Following a review of the Boards composition and leadership structure, there have been a number of Executive and Non-executive changes to the Board.
Consider systematic timetabling of post-implementation The first Board review of the integration of material investments or post-investment reviews made in the previous year was carried out in January 2019, after the first anniversary of the acquisition of COEX.
The Board intends to continue to review future investments as a matter of course, usually after the one year anniversary of the investments implementation.
Enhance monitoring of achievement of our strategic objectives, The Board conducted a review of the achievement of strategic including information structured around the main integration objectives in particular around integration and performance drivers objectives and performance drivers and recognised that changes were required to the integration strategy with a new executive management team to drive this forward.
As regulations change, ensure a continuing development The Board received briefings on Directors duties, company programme is in place for the Board, including training and legislation and regulatory developments.
The effectiveness of the technical briefings linked to our business issues Boards development programme will continue to be reviewed by the Nominations and Governance Committee.
The Board received a crisis escalation briefing to assist Directors understanding of their role and responsibilities in a crisis.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 65 Actions agreed for 2019 The 2018 evaluation confirmed that the Board and its committees had areas for improvement and optimisation.
The main recommendations arising from the Board evaluation for 2018, and actions planned during 2019, are set out in the table below.
2018 evaluation recommendations Actions to be taken during 2019 Enhance cultural oversight by the Board Continue with the development of a dashboard to monitor culture which will be kept under regular review by the Risk Committee.
Include culture as a regular item for consideration within the HR presentations to the Board.
Implement a Workforce Representation and Engagement Programme and ensure the Nominations and Governance Committee receives debriefings on workforce engagement and continues to review the effectiveness of the programme.
Enhance the Boards engagement on priority matters Continue to build dedicated Non-executive Director only engagement into the formal meeting calendar.
Continue to review the Boards priorities and focus the meeting agenda on priorities to ensure sufficient time is spent discussing key issues.
Enhance the Boards oversight of technology and cyber-risk Set up a Technology sub-committee to enhance oversight.
Continue to receive reports on technology and cyber-risk from the Group Chief Operating Officer.
There are various specific actions to be taken during 2019 by each of the Board committees which are set out in their respective Committee reports.
Individual performance evaluation As a separate part of the annual evaluation process, there is a review of the effectiveness and commitment of individual Directors and the need for any training or development is assessed.
This is carried out as follows: The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors to evaluate the performance of the Chief Executive Officer: The Chairman meets each Non-executive Director individually: and The Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other Non-executive Directors meet to evaluate the Chairmans performance, having first obtained feedback from the Chief Executive Officer.
As part of the evaluation, an individuals commitment of time to the Company in light of their other commitments, as noted in their biographies on pages 54 and 55, is reviewed.
Roger Perkin and Angela Knight were subject to rigorous evaluation, in line with the Code, given that each will have served over six years by the time of the AGM in May 2019.
All Directors subject to the evaluation were deemed to be effective members of the Board and are recommended for election or re-election at the AGM.
Given that Rupert Robson and Stephen Pull will not be putting themselves forward for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, neither of them undertook the formalised individual performance evaluation this year.
