54 Governance report Board of Directors Rupert Robson Nicolas Breteau Robin Stewart Edmund Ng Roger Perkin Stephen Pull N Re N Ri A N Ri Re N Chairman Executive Director and Executive Director and Independent Independent Independent Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Tenure Non-executive Director 6 years 2 months, Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Chairman 6 years 0 months 8 months 8 months 1 year 4 months 6 years 8 months 7 years 6 months Rupert has held a number of senior roles in Nicolas brings to the Board detailed knowledge Robin brings to the Board financial expertise Having previously served as Head of the Direct Rogers longstanding financial and accounting Stephen has brought a wealth of financial financial institutions, most recently as Chairman of the business and wide-ranging leadership and strong leadership skills developed both within Investment Division of Hong Kong Monetary career, combined with his extensive board services experience to the Board and to his role of Charles Taylor plc, Non-executive Director of experience, most recently as CEO of Global TP ICAP plc previously Tullett Prebon plc and the Authority HKMA and Managing Director of Asia experience, provide a valuable skillset as Chairman as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
London Metal Exchange Holdings Ltd, NonBroking at TP ICAP.
The Board also benefits from wider industry over more than 20 years.
Having Ex-Japan trading within J. P. Morgan, Edmund of the Audit Committee and member of the Risk He was Chairman of Corporate Broking at executive Director of OJSC Nomos Bank, Global his extensive senior level experience, including joined the Group originally as Head of Tax in brings to the Board a deep understanding and Committee.
Roger is a qualified accountant and Nomura following its acquisition of Lehman Head, Financial Institutions Group, Corporate senior managerial roles at MATIF later part 2003, he has held the roles of interim CFO, Deputy insight of the Asian capital markets, one of our key spent 40 years at EY before retiring from the firm Brothers Europe, for whom he worked as Head Investment Banking and Markets at HSBC and of Euronext and most recently prior to joining CFO and Group Financial Controller at Tullett markets.
He is currently Chief Investment Officer in 2009.
He was formerly a Non-executive Director of Corporate Broking, and then as Chairman of Head of European Insurance, Investment Banking TP ICAP, as Chief Executive of Newedge Group.
Prebon plc, giving him a solid understanding of and co-founder of Eastfort Asset Management, at The Evolution Group plc, Friends Life Group, Corporate Broking.
He has also held a number of at Citigroup Global Markets.
Rupert will be Nicolas has also held directorship roles in Europe the business.
Robin started his career at Arthur which was established in mid-2015 with Brummer Nationwide Building Society and Electra Private other senior roles in the City, including Managing stepping down as Chairman and from the Board and the Americas at the Futures and Options Andersen, before moving to Dresdner Kleinwort, & Partners in Sweden.
He is also a Trustee of three charities, Director of Corporate Broking at Merrill Lynch and at the conclusion of the AGM on 15 May 2019.
Association UK, Futures Industry Association where he was Deputy Head of Tax.
Chiddingstone Castle, The Conservation Head of UK Equity Sales at Barclays fide Zoete Current external appointments: US and Altura Spain.
Volunteers and the Charities Aid Foundation.
Stephen will be stepping down from the Chief Investment Officer and co-founder of Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 15 May 2019.
Eastfort Asset Management None Non-executive Chairman of Sanne Group plc Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Non-executive Director of Savills plc None Non-executive director of Hargreaves Current external appointments: Lansdown plc Director of Trust Associates Ltd Non-executive director of AIB Group UK plc Philip Price Angela Knight CBE Michael Heaney David Shalders Lorraine Trainer Richard Berliand A Re N Ri Re N Ri A Re N Ri A Re N Executive Director and Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Group General Counsel Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director and Head of and Chairman Compliance designate Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Appointed 19 March 6 months 7 years 6 months 1 year 2 months 5 years 1 month 8 months 2019 Philip has over 25 years experience in the legal Angela brings a wealth of knowledge and With a longstanding and distinguished career in Davids combined skillset of operational, Having had an established career in HR executive Richard combines detailed understanding of the and regulatory aspects of the global financial experience, stemming from her previous chief financial services, Michael brings to the Board an technological and M&A expertise gained from his leadership across financial institutions including financial services industry, especially in the field services sector having held senior roles in London, executive roles at Energy UK, the British Bankers in-depth knowledge of the financial markets both role as Group Operations & Technology Director Citibank NA, the London Stock Exchange and of market structure, with recent and relevant Europe and Hong Kong.
Prior to joining TP ICAP Association and the Association of Private Client in the US and the UK.
Prior to his appointment, at Willis Towers Watson plc is highly valuable to Coutts Natwest Group, Lorraine brings a fresh Board experience.
With a background as Senior he was a partner and COO at a listed European Investment Managers and Stockbrokers, as well he served as Global Co-Head of the Fixed Income the Board and to his role as Chair of the Risk perspective to the Board.
She has experience of Independent Director and Deputy Chairman at private equity firm and prior to that he was as previous Non-executive Directorships at Sales and Trading Division at Morgan Stanley Committee.
He brings further operational chairing Remuneration Committees currently at other listed financial institutions he is well placed General Counsel and COO at an offshore hedge Lloyds TSB, Scottish Widows and Brewin Dolphin where he spent 28 years of his career in both experience from his previous senior roles as Global Essentra PLC and Sonae SGPS and, until recently to lead the Board and the development of its fund.
He headed the EMEA legal team at UBS Holdings plc.
Her prior experience as a Member of New York and London.
He was also a member Chief Operating Officer for Global Banking and at Jupiter Fund Management PLC.
This depth of strategy on becoming Chairman at the conclusion Investment Bank between 1997 and 2005 and Parliament and Treasury Minister brings a unique of Morgan Stanleys Operating, Management Markets at Royal Bank of Scotland as well as experience will be very relevant as she assumes of the 2019 AGM.
His extensive knowledge stems was Group Legal Adviser at Dresdner Kleinwort and valuable perspective to Board discussions.
Head of London and Asia Operations and Head the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
She from a 23 year career at JP Morgan, where he between 1994 and 1997.
In addition to She delivers scrutiny and independent oversight of Derivative Operations for NatWest.
has also previously held Non-executive positions served as Managing Director, most recently Current external appointments: membership of a number of professional to the Board.
at Colt Group and Aegis Group.
leading the global cash equities and prime Non-executive Director of Legal & General committees and organisations, Philip is admitted Current external appointments: services businesses.
Investment Management Americas Current external appointments: Current external appointments: as a Solicitor of the Supreme Court of England and Group Operations & Technology Director at Chairman of the SEC Fixed Income Market Non-executive Director of Taylor Wimpey Plc Non-executive Director and Chair of Wales.
Given the increasingly complex and fast Willis Towers Watson plc Current external appointments: Structure Advisory Committee Non-executive Director of Arbuthnot Latham Remuneration Committee of Sonae SGPS Senior Independent Director and Chair of paced regulatory environment, Philips expertise & Co Ltd Non-executive Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee of Man Group plc is an invaluable asset to the Board.
Non-executive Director of Provident Financial Remuneration Committee of Essentra PLC Member of Supervisory Board of Deutsche Group plc Brse AG Current external appointments: None TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 55 A N Audit Committee Nominations and Chairman Governance Committee Re Ri Remuneration Risk Committee Member Committee Tenure has been calculated as at the date of this report Rupert Robson Nicolas Breteau Robin Stewart Edmund Ng Roger Perkin Stephen Pull N Re N Ri A N Ri Re N Chairman Executive Director and Executive Director and Independent Independent Independent Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Tenure Non-executive Director 6 years 2 months, Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Tenure Chairman 6 years 0 months 8 months 8 months 1 year 4 months 6 years 8 months 7 years 6 months Rupert has held a number of senior roles in Nicolas brings to the Board detailed knowledge Robin brings to the Board financial expertise Having previously served as Head of the Direct Rogers longstanding financial and accounting Stephen has brought a wealth of financial financial institutions, most recently as Chairman of the business and wide-ranging leadership and strong leadership skills developed both within Investment Division of Hong Kong Monetary career, combined with his extensive board services experience to the Board and to his role of Charles Taylor plc, Non-executive Director of experience, most recently as CEO of Global TP ICAP plc previously Tullett Prebon plc and the Authority HKMA and Managing Director of Asia experience, provide a valuable skillset as Chairman as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive Director of Provident Financial Remuneration Committee of Essentra PLC Member of Supervisory Board of Deutsche Group plc Brse AG Current external appointments: None www.
