72 Governance report Report of the Audit Committee Roger Perkin Dear shareholder, Key responsibilities of the Committee Chairman, Audit Committee The Board has delegated responsibility to This report sets out how the Committee the Committee for: discharged its responsibilities during 2018, Meetings 4 Committee members attended and explains how the Committee ensured Financial reporting 1 the integrity of financial reporting by considering significant financial Roger Perkin 4 4 undertaking a review of the controls in 2 reporting judgements: Carol Sergeant 3 4 place.
The report also highlights the reviewing the Annual Report Angela Knight 4 4 Committees assessment of significant and Financial Statements and 3 Lorraine Trainer 1 2 financial reporting judgements in half-year results: connection with the 2018 financial considering Group tax matters: 1 Roger Perkin has recent and relevant financial statements, and the conclusions reached.
reviewing the going concern and the experience as a qualified accountant with 40 years experience, and as Chairman of the Audit longer term viability statement: Committee at Hargreaves Lansdown plc.
We made a fair, balanced and External audit 2 Carol Sergeant was unable to attend the meeting understandable recommendation to the reviewing the effectiveness of in December 2018.
Board, which is explained on page 74.
We external audit: 3 Lorraine Trainer was appointed as a member of the also adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments assessing external auditor Committee on 1 July 2018, but was unable to attend and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with the meeting later in July due to a prior engagement independence: related to another directorship.
Customers and prepared for the adoption developing a policy for non-audit 4 David Shalders became a member of the Audit of IFRS 16 Leases in the 2019 financial year.
services provided by the external Committee in January 2019. auditor: There have been a number of changes to the Risk management and internal control How the Committee spent its time during Committee during the year including the considering the effectiveness of the the year in scheduled meetings % appointment of Lorraine Trainer, who brings Groups systems of risk management wide-ranging business experience within the and internal control, including all financial services sector and operational material controls: expertise, and the retirement of Carol Internal audit Sergeant.
David Shalders was appointed to approving the internal audits risk the Committee in January 2019 and brings assessment, internal audit charter both commercial experience within the and annual audit plan: sector and technological expertise.
All considering the results and findings Committee members are independent of internal audits work: Non-executive Directors with experience reviewing the effectiveness of internal within the financial services sector.
audit: and reviewing whistleblowing Committee effectiveness arrangements.
Internal auditor 36% The Board carried out a comprehensive External auditor 25% Board evaluation review this year which I provide regular reports to the Board on Annual reporting cycle 21% included a review of the Committees the activities of the Committee and how Routine matters 9% performance.
I am pleased to report the we have discharged our duties.
Outside Tax matters 3% Committee was regarded as operating of formal Committee meetings, I engage Risk management and internal controls 3% effectively throughout 2018.
The evaluation regularly with members of finance and the Governance 3% did not identify any particular areas of risk function, as well as with external and concern.
However, looking ahead the internal audit, both in the UK and our Committee will focus on ensuring the The Committees terms of reference principal overseas locations.
This reinforces continued smooth engagement between are available on the Companys my understanding of the challenges facing internal audit and management and website: www.
monitoring the impact of relevant regulatory developments including the application of The Committee believes that it has complied new accounting standards.
with the Audit Committee composition requirements in the Code.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 73 Financial reporting The Committee has reviewed the integrity of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the half year and year end announcements of results and the Groups Annual Report and Accounts.
Significant financial reporting judgements in 2018 We considered a number of judgements in connection with the 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements.
These judgements, how the Committee addressed them and the conclusions we reached, are set out in the table below: Judgement Note Action the Committee took Conclusions Presentation of 2 c Challenged management on the rationale for exclusion of items The Committee is satisfied that exceptional from underlying results and ensured the subsequent presentation the definition and presentation acquisition, disposal was appropriate.
of items excluded from and integrationReviewed the Annual Report to ensure that undue prominence underlying results were related items was not given to non-statutory measures in line with guidance appropriate.
from the European Securities and Markets Authority.
Sought the view of the external auditor and reviewed its procedures as set out in its report.
Impairment of 13 Reviewed the basis on which goodwill was allocated to CGUs The Committee is satisfied with goodwill and and discussed managements annual impairment assessment.
the process undertaken, that an other intangibles Considered the basis for determining the recoverable amount impairment charge of 65m is of each CGU.
required in the year to the Challenged the methodology and valuation assumptions used.
Americas and Asia Pacific CGUs Considered whether the information provided to the Groups and that the disclosures are external valuation specialists was complete and accurate.
Reviewed the procedures performed by the external auditor, including the involvement of its own valuation specialist.
Considered whether management and the external auditor had examined potential stress outcomes, particularly in respect of sensitivities to a reasonably possible change in assumptions.
Reviewed the carrying amounts of other intangible assets and discussed managements annual review of impairment triggers.
Other items that are less significant but were discussed include: new accounting standards, appointment of the permanent CFO, synergies and the interim profit warning, compliance with the FCAs client asset rules by the Groups UK regulated entities, resourcing in Finance, the audit market and rotation, internal audit plans and the UKs withdrawal from the European Union.
com 74 Governance report Report of the Audit Committee continued Fair, balanced and understandable Internal audit the quality of Deloittes 2018 external Before the 2018 Annual Report was The Committee is responsible for monitoring audit: approved, the Committee was asked to and reviewing the effectiveness of the the effectiveness of the external audit review and consider the processes and internal audit function.
We approve the process including the expertise, efficiency, controls in place to help ensure it presents internal audit plan and keep it under review global service delivery and cost a fair, balanced and understandable view during the year, to reflect the changing effectiveness of the auditor: of the business.
When conducting these business needs and to ensure it considers the external auditors plans and feedback reviews, the Committee: new and emerging risks.
from senior management: and effectiveness of management in relation examined the preparation and review During 2018, to ensure the audit plan had to the timely identification and resolution process: been completed effectively, the Committee of areas of accounting judgement, considered the level of challenge reviewed: analysing those judgements, the quality provided through that process and and timeliness of papers, managements the work and reports of internal audit: whether the Committee agreed with approach to the value of independent how internal audit recommendations the results: and audit and the booking of any audit had been implemented: and considered the continuing adjustments arising, and the timely monitored progress against the internal appropriateness of the accounting provision of draft public documents audit plan during 2018. policies, important financial reporting for review by the external auditor and judgements and the adequacy and the Committee.
Following the appointment of Bernadine appropriateness of disclosures.
Burnell as our Chief Internal Auditor, which The Committee is pleased to report that the I highlighted last year, we have made a We concluded that the processes and effectiveness review of the external auditor number of further high-quality appointments controls were appropriate, and were did not identify any significant concerns.
as we move towards our ambition of having therefore able to make the following a predominantly in-house internal audit assurance to the Board: In addition, the Committee concluded that function.
With the support of our co-source the 2018 external audit had been effective.
in our view, the Annual Report, taken provider, KPMG, this insourcing process as a whole, is fair, balanced and will continue in the current year so that we Independence and non-audit services understandable and provides the evolve our third line of defence alongside When considering the 2018 Annual Report, information necessary for shareholders to the development of our Risk function the Committee reviewed the objectivity assess the Groups position, performance, discussed elsewhere.
and independence of the external auditor.
We also considered the professional and External auditor regulatory guidance on auditor Going concern and viability statement Effectiveness independence and Deloittes policies and The assumptions relating to the going I meet regularly with the external audit procedures for managing independence.
concern review and viability statement partner throughout the year to ensure that were considered, including the medium term there are no unresolved issues of concern.
Deloitte confirmed that, with one exception projections, stress tests and mitigation plans.
This helps ensure that the external auditor see page 113 for further information, no is able to operate effectively and challenge non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs On the basis of the review, we advised management sufficiently when required.
Ethical Standard were provided to the Group the Board that it was appropriate for the or Parent Company.
Following investigation Annual Report and Financial Statements During the year as part of the 2018 and after consideration of the facts, it was to be prepared on a going concern basis.
effectiveness review of both the external agreed between the Audit Committee and We also reviewed the long-term viability auditor and the 2018 audit, the Committee Deloitte, that the provision of these services statement taking into account the Groups considered: did not impact upon Deloittes integrity, current position and principal risks and objectivity and independence as auditor uncertainties, and advised the Board that to the Group and Parent Company.
the viability statement and the three-year period of the assessment were appropriate.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 75 To safeguard the external auditors In accordance with normal rotation practices, absolute assurance against misstatement independence and objectivity, the Robert Topley will be stepping down as lead or loss.
Company does not engage Deloitte for audit partner following the completion of The Audit Committee carried out an annual any non-audit services except where it is the 2018 audit and Alan Chaudhuri will be review of the effectiveness of the internal work that they must, or are clearly best appointed the new lead audit partner for the control and risk management systems and suited to, perform.
All proposed services year ending 31 December 2019. reported back to the Board to enable it to must be pre-approved in accordance with In accordance with prevailing corporate discharge its responsibilities.
We conducted the non-audit services policy, which is governance requirements, the audit contract a formal review of the effectiveness of the reviewed and approved annually.
will be put out to tender at the latest in 2023 Groups internal control systems for 2018, The Committee reviewed the level of fees in respect of the year ending 31 December considering reports from management, paid to the external auditor for the various 2024.
This will allow a full five year term external audit and the work of the Group non-audit services provided during 2018. for the incoming new lead audit partner.
Risk and Internal Audit functions.
As a During the period under review the nonThe Committee will continue to monitor result of both changes in the business audit services performed by the external legal requirements and developments in and regulatory feedback, the Group is auditor amounted to 1.33m, 25% compared best practice with regard to audit tender undertaking a complete review and to the 5.37m of audit fees.
enhancement of its global risk management services primarily relate to regulatory framework.
Further details can be found in The Company confirms its compliance with reporting, the interim review of the Groups the Report of the Risk Committee on pages the requirements of the Statutory Audit half year financial statements and audits 78 and 79.
Services for Large Companies Market of subsidiary financial statements not Investigation Mandatory Use of The process for identifying, evaluating and mandated by law.
These services are Competitive Tender Processes and Audit managing the principal risks faced by the typically, or required to be, performed by the Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Company is reviewed regularly by the Board external auditor.
There were no advisory or throughout the year ended 31 December and has been in place for the year under consulting services provided by the external 2018.
I submitted a letter in a personal review and up to the date of approval of the auditor to the Group.
capacity in response to the Competition and Annual Report.
It is also in accordance with More information can be found in Note 5 to Markets Authoritys proposed remedies in the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, the Consolidated Financial Statements.
respect of the statutory audit market.
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Audit and non-audit fees 000s Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for: Whistleblowing 5,365 The Committee reviewed arrangements by 4,657 setting the Groups risk appetite: which employees may, in confidence, raise ensuring the Group has an appropriate concerns about improprieties in matters and effective ERMF: and of financial reporting or other matters.
monitoring the ongoing process for In conducting the review, the Committee identifying, evaluating, managing and ensured that the policies remained in line 1,327 1,076 reporting the significant risks faced by with guidance published by the relevant the Group.
2017 2018 2017 2018 The ERMF and principal risks are described Audit Non-audit in the Risk Management section of the Strategic report on pages 38 to 43.
Roger Perkin External audit tenders Chairman Deloitte has been the Companys auditor The Board is also responsible for the Groups Audit Committee since its predecessor company listed in 2000. system of internal control and for reviewing 19 March 2019 In 2013, the Board put the external audit its effectiveness.
The system is designed to contract out for tender and concluded that manage rather than eliminate the risk Deloitte should be re-appointed with a new of failure to achieve business objectives, lead audit partner, Robert Topley, appointed and can provide only reasonable and not to the Companys audit in 2014. www.
