44 Strategic report Resources, relationships and responsibilities Developing and delivering our corporate responsibility strategy A Voice for All As the worlds largest interdealer broker, With social mobility the central principle Over the last year, we have focused on we understand we have a responsibility of the strategy, its three pillars of Inspire, embedding A Voice for All throughout the to ensure our business has a positive social Inform and Include, continue to underpin Group and delivering on the three pillars of impact.
Last year we launched our new all our actions for the benefit of our business: the strategy.
Building on our activity over corporate social responsibility strategy our employees: our customers: and the wider the last year, we will continue to embed our CSR, A Voice for All.
communities in which we operate.
A Voice for All strategy throughout the Group in 2019.
Inspire Inform Supporting creative initiatives Promoting skills development that inspire new generations and in the communities in which gives them the confidence we operate to increase to succeed.
Include Building the diverse and skilled workforce that the financial services sector needs for the future.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 45 Inspire Inform Include We are committed to raising aspirations At TP ICAP, we know that having the right At TP ICAP we aim to create an environment and ensuring young people can succeed skills is essential to get on in life.
Thats that is inclusive, diverse and that harnesses in education and employment, irrespective why we are committed to promoting skills talent from all backgrounds.
We are of their background.
Starting in the UK, development in the communities within committed to improving levels of gender, we have been working with a number of which we operate to increase participation ethnic and socio-economic diversity across partners to support this ambition: in local economies.
the business and ensuring all our employees have a voice.
In November 2018 we We worked with London-based youth Your background or circumstances can appointed Frits Vogels, TP ICAPs EMEA mentoring charity, One Degree, to affect your life chances in many ways CEO, our Global Diversity Champion to provide mentoring opportunities and how much you earn, where you work ensure we are encouraging a diverse and office visits for a number of the charitys and even your health.
We recognise that inclusive workplace culture across the Group.
We will continue one of the basic skills that can affect life to offer mentoring opportunities and chances is numeracy.
To champion gender balance in the workplace visits throughout 2019: Teenagers with poor numeracy skills are, financial services sector, we became a We participated in the Lord Mayors for example, twice as likely to play truant signatory of the UK Treasurys Women She Can Be initiative in February 2019. and be excluded from school as those in Finance Charter in July 2018, with the Now in its second year, the programme with good skills, and adults are more Group aspiring to increase the proportion aims to inspire more young women to than twice as likely to be unemployed.
of women in senior management roles pursue careers in the City: and In May 2018 we launched our Everybody to 25% by 2025.
In 2019, we are piloting a mentoring Counts campaign and by working with To ensure the Group has a gender scheme for 12 of our UK employees to partners, we aim to engage one million balanced pipeline, we have been work with Leadership Through Sport people across our key markets, to improve participating in the 30% Club, with & Business LTSB, a national social basic numeracy skills.
a number of our UK-based female mobility charity, which is also one of our On the first National Numeracy Day employees receiving mentoring support 2018 Charity Day beneficiaries.
LTSB in 2018, we announced a three year from senior women in the industry.
provides underprivileged young people strategic partnership with UK charity In November 2017, we launched connect, aged 16-21 with access to sustainable National Numeracy to support us to our employee-led engagement networks, careers in business and finance through deliver the Everybody Counts campaign which bring together employees from apprenticeships.
Our employees will across the UK, and we will partner around the world to create inclusive mentor a number of young LTSB with other charities to help achieve networks and development opportunities.
beneficiaries, providing one to one this outcome.
Over the last year, we have evolved advice on interview preparation, connect to be the overarching steering skills development and continue to and advisory committee for diversity support their mentees throughout and inclusion.
Our five employee network their apprenticeship.
groups now include: Women: LGBTQ, Ethnic minority and cultural background, Sports social and wellbeing and Veterans.
Our UK employee forum involve, a permanent body made up of elected representatives from our business functions, continues to represent and support our employees on important issues in the workplace.
We will roll out the Workforce Representation and Engagement Programme across all regions in order for the Board to get first hand insight into the culture and values of the Group.
See pages 56 and 57 for more information.
com 46 Strategic report Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued Sustainable procurement and a further 375 hours were volunteered comprised of employees from around We take the sustainability of our supply chain during evenings and weekends.
Connect is in place to promote and procurement exceptionally seriously, continued to support ICAP Charity Day employee networks, encourage the diversity and in 2018 implemented a number of which in 2018 raised 4.5m globally for of our Group and support an inclusive culture.
initiatives that support this including: charitable causes around the world.
These two forums help drive employee removal of plastic bottled water availability: engagement with the aim of being the Excluding Charity Day funding, in 2018 and reducing our travel carbon foot print by leading employer in our sector.
we made donations of 141,000 globally significantly reducing the number of flights to charities around the world.
This included Recruitment during 2018 compared to 2017.
25,000, to support disaster relief efforts We have taken a number of steps to in Indonesia following the devastating encourage a culture of diversity and inclusion Human rights September earthquake.
We also made at TP ICAP and through our Early Careers We continue to fully support the UN Guiding donations to many other causes around Programme ECP, we are committed to Principles on Business and Human Rights.
the world, through matched funding of hiring candidates from all backgrounds, We do not tolerate forced labour or human employees fund-raising activities and both graduate and non-graduate.
The trafficking of any kind in our business, or direct sponsorships paid to charities.
selection process involves an intensive, in our supply chain.
In September 2018, merit-based assessment centre and in 2018 we published our second Modern Slavery Learning and talent development we hired a total of 37 new trainee brokers Statement which sets out our commitment During 2018, we continued to ensure all our through this process in New York, London, to the continued development of our employees received appropriate mandatory Singapore and Sydney.
approach to modern slavery related risk training covering such topics as: anti-money identification, monitoring and reporting, laundering: anti-bribery and corruption: In London we have also piloted a new and proactive mitigation.
GDPR: information security: MiFID II and interactive broking simulation activity as Respect@Work.
In addition, we have part of the assessment centre, which gives We have updated our procurement policy provided employees in our major locations a great opportunity to see candidates to ensure our suppliers are following the in-house training programmes on personal aptitude for the broking role.
It also provides requirements set out in our Modern Slavery effectiveness skills, core management skills, us with measurable data on their values and Statement and we are introducing mandatory technical and market knowledge.
The behaviours and whether these reflect the training to all relevant staff.
in-house training calendar is updated on values of TP ICAP.
Instructor-led tailored We have also introduced a new supplier Gender pay and diversity training programmes have also been onboarding process, which includes modern We are focused on addressing the challenge provided to certain business areas.
slavery and human trafficking checks prior of diversity within our business which, like to onboarding a new supplier.
During 2018 our management team took many financial services businesses, has a low part in a 360-degree review process to ratio of female to male workers, particularly Charitable giving and volunteering review how the Group has come together in our broking and senior management roles.
We believe empowering our employees to and provide each member with rounded In 2018 we published our first Gender Pay get involved in charitable initiatives helps feedback on their leadership.
For more information, see www.
link our business more closely with the tpicap.
In line We have continued to run two forums with this, our charitable giving policy to enable two-way feedback with our While we are proud of the equality, diversity supports our employees charitable giving employees.
The first is our employee and inclusion initiatives we have put in place aspirations with a pool of funding available engagement forum named, involve, so far, we know we still have a great deal for matching or sponsorship and all our a permanent body made up of elected more to do.
As a business we are committed employees are entitled to two days of employee representatives, who act as a to continuing to make progress on this paid volunteering leave.
collective voice, speaking on behalf of agenda and by April 2019, the Group employees on important issues in the will publish its second Gender Pay Report.
In 2017 our employees volunteered 482 hours workplace.
The forum gives a voice to of their time helping a total of 19 charitable employees around collective consultation, causes.
In 2018 we have more than doubled information and communication and this figure with 1,210 hours volunteered employee feedback.
The second is connect, across our global business in support our diversity and inclusion committee of 31 charities.
835 of these hours were volunteered during the business day TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 47 ICAP Charity Day 145m Now in its 27th year, ICAP Charity Day Since Charity Day began in 1993, thanks continues to make an enormous impact to the efforts of our colleagues, customers Since Charity Day began in 1993, thanks on charity beneficiaries.
Once a year, and suppliers, ICAP Charity Day has raised to the efforts of our employees, customers ICAP donates its revenues and commissions almost 145m: benefiting over 2,400 and suppliers, ICAP Charity Day has raised to charitable causes.
charitable projects around the world, and almost 145m.
enabling us to fund programmes and entire The sums involved are significant.
projects across a range of charitable causes.
In 2017, 4.7m was raised globally, and in December 2018 this figure was 4.5m.
4.5m On Charity Day, ICAP offices support local In December 2018 4.5m charities registered in their own country.
2,400 Since 1993, Charity Day has benefited over 2,400 charitable projects around the world.
Image above So They Can charity has been a beneficiary of ICAP Charity Day in our Sydney office.
For more information see Image right Rainbow Trust Childrens Charity www.
com was a beneficiary of ICAP Charity Day in the UK.
com 48 Strategic report Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued To support our employees, we have global help combat terrorist financing: the US the main jurisdictions in which it policies in place to ensure we respect the comply with economic and trade operates, and VAT sales taxes borne and backgrounds, beliefs and cultures of all sanctions issued by relevant governments collected.
In addition, the Group makes employees, and that the working and organisations in every jurisdiction in further tax payments to the tax authorities environment is free from discrimination, which we operate: in other tax jurisdictions in which it operates.
In the event that ensure that neither the firm, nor any other HM Treasury has adopted the requirements an employee becomes disabled, the Groups person providing services for and on set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital policy is to make reasonable adjustments, behalf of it, facilitates tax evasion: Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting including arranging training, which may be prohibit the acceptance, or offering Regulations 2013.
The legislation requires necessary in order to enable the employee of a bribe in any form: the publication of additional information, to continue working for the Group.
prohibit the solicitation of business, including certain tax payments, in respect by the offering of any form of bribe: Culture of the year ended 31 December 2018, by prohibit the offering of employment, During 2018, we continued to review 31 December 2019.
This information will be with the intention of receiving an our culture and gauge employee sentiment.
available by this date on TP ICAPs website, improper business advantage: and We have started a cycle of pulse surveys www.
prohibit the making of facilitation payments.
released to a subset of employees to Environment compliment the Group-wide survey.
These TP ICAP strives to maintain the highest TP ICAP recognises it has a responsibility to short surveys are focused on our values and standards of honesty, openness and help protect and preserve the environment.
gives a snapshot on employee experiences.
accountability and recognises that all those To this end the Group endeavours to carry The outputs of the survey form part of our who work with or within the Group have an out all reasonably practical measures to culture dashboard.
For more information important role to play in achieving this goal.
meet its responsibilities to reduce its impact about our culture, please see pages 51 Accordingly, the Group has implemented on the environment.
Responsibility for and 56. a global whistleblowing policy which environmental matters rests with the Board, encourages employees and third parties, to and is included in its terms of reference.
The Social media and online policy report suspicion of wrongdoing in relation to Chief Executive Officer is the Board member At TP ICAP we understand the importance TP ICAP activities including: criminal activity, responsible for corporate social responsibility of social media and its impact on society failure to comply with legal or regulatory across the Group.
Our Group policy for requirements, miscarriages of justice, social media and online activity is designed danger to health and safety, damage to As an office-based business we do not to safeguard our brand, reputation and the environment, bribery, financial fraud, generate a large environmental impact employees when communicating on social negligence, breach of TP ICAPs policies and of that impact the main element is media or online.
We have set out clear rules and unauthorised disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions as a result of and policies on the use of social media and confidential information.
office-based business activities and from online communications and communicated business travel.
Statistics relating to these Tax and other social payments them to our employees.
are set out in the Directors Report, on page The Group has published a Group Tax 110, where we also publish our annual carbon We also have a social media best practice Strategy, which is available on TP ICAPs footprint figures.
guide and monitor all of the mainstream website, www.
The Group social media channels to ensure compliance Tax Strategy explains that the Group is TP ICAP makes a commitment to: with our standards.
committed to complying with tax laws in a responsible manner and to having open ensure compliance with all current Whistleblowing, anti-money laundering and constructive relationships with tax environmental legislation: and bribery and corruption authorities wherever we operate, and seek to identify forthcoming TP ICAP recognises its responsibility to fully that the Groups tax risk appetite is low.
environmental legislation to ensure timely meet its legal and regulatory requirements compliance with such new legislation: to protect the integrity and stability of the The Group made payments to tax authorities financial markets and makes a commitment to: for 2018 of 402m 2017: 382m on like-forlike basis, comprising corporation tax, not being used by criminals to launder premises taxes, employers social security the proceeds of crime or by sanctioned payments, income taxes and social security individuals and entities: paid on behalf of employees in the UK and TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 49 seek to improve its management of adopt sustainable procurement practices This Strategic report, from page 1 to 49, energy, emissions, use of resources and and work with customers and suppliers to has been reviewed and approved by the waste performance to prevent pollution improve energy performance throughout Board of Directors on 19 March 2019. and provide resources to support effective the Groups supply chain.
improvement opportunities: Nicolas Breteau monitor and report the Groups annual Chief Executive Officer energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions, as appropriate: and Robin Stewart Chief Financial Officer Non-financial information statement We aim to comply with the new Non-financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The table below, and information it refers to, is intended to help stakeholders to understand our position on key non-financial matters.
Risk management and Reporting requirement Policies and standards which govern our approach additional information Environmental matters Environment our commitments Resources, relationships Corporate social responsibility policy and responsibilities see pages 48 and 49 Employees Global recruitment policy Resources, relationships and Employee relations policy responsibilities see page 46 Equal opportunity policy Joiners transfers and leavers policy Global training and development policy Equality, diversity and discrimination our commitments Human rights Employee relations policy Resources, relationships and Equal opportunity policy responsibilities see page 46 Data protection and retention policy Global whistleblowing policy Physical security policy Human rights and freedom of association our commitments Modern slavery statement Social matters Charitable giving policy Resources, relationships and Corporate social responsibility policy responsibilities see page 46 Anti-corruption Compliance manual Resources, relationships and and anti-bribery Anti-money laundering and counter terrorist financing policy responsibilities see page 48 TP ICAP Americas anti-bribery and corruption policy Global whistleblowing policy Whistleblowing our commitments Bribery and corruption our commitments Description of principal risks Risk management lifecycle policy Principal risks and and impact of business activity New business policy uncertainty, see pages Tax risk and reporting policy 40 to 43 Financial risk management policy Description of the business model Our business model, see pages 4 and 5 Our business model see pages 4 and 5 Non-financial key performance Key performance indicators, see pages 18 and 19 Key performance indicators indicators see pages 18 and 19 www.
