76 Governance report Report of the Risk Committee David Shalders Dear shareholder, Key responsibilities of the Committee Chairman, Risk Committee The Board has delegated responsibility On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to to the Committee for: present the Report of the Risk Committee Meetings 3 Committee members attended explaining how the Committee has reviewing the level of risk within 1 discharged its risk oversight responsibilities each business line and assessing its Carol Sergeant 5 5 during 2018. comparability to the Groups risk Michael Heaney 5 5 appetite: Edmund Ng 5 5 Although I was appointed as Committee overseeing the development, 2 David Shalders 5 5 Chairman in January 2019, I have been a implementation and maintenance Roger Perkin 5 5 member of the Committee since its inception of the Groups risk management in 2015 and am therefore fully apprised of and compliance framework and 1 Carol Sergeant stepped down as Chairman of the its work during 2018 under Carol Sergeants monitoring its effectiveness: Risk Committee on 31 December 2018. leadership.
In this regard, I would like to 2 David Shalders replaced Carol Sergeant as reviewing new risk principles Chairman of the Risk Committee in January 2019. thank Carol for her stewardship of the and policies: 3 Angela Knight became a member of the Risk Committee, which was formed during considering future and emerging Committee in January 2019. her tenure, and for her commitment to the risks and providing information and Group during a period of substantial change.
recommendations to the Board as How the Committee spent its time during appropriate: During 2018 the Committee continued to the year in scheduled meetings % overseeing the independence and focus its oversight on the key substantive effectiveness of the Risk and risks facing the Group, including those Compliance functions: arising from Integration, MiFID II providing input to the Remuneration implementation and Brexit, as well as cyber Committee on the alignment of risk and operational resilience, to ensure remuneration to risk performance: that the Groups risk profile remained within considering the risks arising from any risk appetite.
strategic initiatives and advising the Board accordingly: The Committee also oversaw the ongoing reviewing the appointment of the project to enhance the Groups risk Chief Risk Officer CRO : and management framework in response to reviewing the Groups culture changes in the business and regulatory monitoring arrangements.
The framework continues Business risk reviews 18% to evolve with the objective of improving Legal and compliance update the Groups risk management capability including legal and regulatory risk 13% and supporting the delivery of the Groups Challenge to business leaders business strategy.
including engagement and updates 13% Risk governance 13% In conducting its risk oversight activity, Routine matters 10% the Committee has been fully cognisant of Non-executive Director only session 6% increased client and regulatory expectations given its pivotal role in the wholesale financial markets, which include an expectation that the Group meets high standards of prudential soundness and The Committees terms of reference operational resilience.
are available on the Companys website: www.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 77 Key matters considered by the Committee in 2018 Topic Matters considered and actions taken by the Committee Broking The Committee provided oversight of the key risks arising from the Groups broking and post-trade activity, including process the review of key risk metrics included in the Chief Risk Officers Report.
This included a detailed review of the Groups various broking models conducted in a Risk Committee workshop which was attended by all members of the Committee and representatives from the business, including front office personnel.
Infrastructure Received updates on key aspects of the Groups technology and other infrastructure, including presentations by the Group Chief Operating Officer and the Group Chief Information Officer.
A specific review of single points of failure in light of recent operational experience.
Received reports in relation to the Groups business continuity arrangements and its operational resilience.
The Group is undertaking a number of actions to ensure that its business recovery capability meets defined recovery time objectives and recovery point objectives.
Cyber security Received regular reports from the Group Chief Operating Officer and Group Chief Information Officer on the status and data of the Groups cyber capability.
protection The Committee exercised oversight of the Groups continuing efforts to enhance its cyber capability in light of the ever evolving and increasingly sophisticated cyber-threat landscape.
The Committee monitored the status of the Groups General Data Protection Regulation GDPR programme to ensure the Group was implementing any changes required to adhere to the new regime.
Human The Committee monitored the Groups resourcing profile and the steps taken to address any key person dependencies.
resources The Committee paid particular attention to the demands of the Integration Programme and the associated HR implications.
Financial risk The Committee received reports on the Groups financial risk exposure as part of the Chief Risk Officers Report, including its FX, interest rate, and credit risk exposure.
During 2018, the Committee paid particular attention to the Groups liquidity position and the key drivers of the Groups liquidity risk profile.
Capital and The Committee reviewed the ICAAP returns for the UK regulated entities, including the review and challenge of the liquidity stress tests undertaken to assess the Groups risk profile in stressed conditions and the associated impact on the Groups adequacy capital and liquidity adequacy.
Reviewed the Group Recovery Plan to assess the adequacy of the various defined recovery actions and the calibration of Recovery Indicators to ensure that the Group has sufficient early warning of any potential deterioration in the Groups financial position.
Integration The Committee maintained its review of the Integration Programme.
Specific areas of focus included the Groups projected performance against the synergy and cost-to-achieve targets and the increased operational risk arising from the migration of systems and infrastructure.
Legal and The Committee received reports at each meeting from the Group General Counsel and Head of Compliance on key compliance legal and compliance issues.
The Committee continued to oversee the Groups implementation of MiFID II and its operation of the formal trading venues operated under this regime.
The Committee monitored the status of the Groups surveillance programme and the actions being taken to standardise surveillance capability throughout the Group.
Brexit The Committee continued to monitor the status of the Groups Brexit response plan, including the contingency plans in place to address a no deal Brexit.
Risk framework The Committee received regular updates on the project to enhance the Groups risk management framework, which is in response to changes in the business and regulatory feedback.
com 78 Governance report Report of the Risk Committee continued Review of Committee effectiveness Key priorities for 2019 The Group is also undertaking a range The Committee conducted an internal review The Committee will maintain its focus on of actions to develop and embed its risk of its effectiveness in December 2018.
This all key risks faced by the Group and, as management framework, reflecting review concluded that the Committee had mentioned above, is planning to make regulatory feedback, with the objective of been broadly effective in its risk oversight increased use of deep-dive reviews into ensuring: that there is clear accountability activities but identified a number of areas specific areas of interest or concern.
Some for the management of all risks: that risk where it could improve its effectiveness.
of the reviews planned for 2019 include a management is an integral part of day-toThe Committee, having reviewed and deep-dive into the ongoing programme day activity across all areas of the Group: discussed these findings, has resolved to to standardise the surveillance capability and that risk management behaviour is take a number of steps to implement these across the Group, and a review of the Groups appropriately reflected in employee improvements, including: preparedness for the Senior Managers and performance management which is linked Certification regime SMCR, which will to remuneration.
These actions include: an increased focus on key risk issues and apply to the Group with effect from risk metrics with a reduction in the time Risk culture: further embedding a sound 9 December 2019. spent discussing more operational risk management culture through a range matters and metrics: The Committee will increase its oversight of initiatives, including: the adoption of increased scrutiny of material risks in of conduct and culture related matters: this an increased range of risk management legal entities: will include the review of a new Culture objectives for all staff which are then increased commitment to the Dashboard which should provide a more assessed in the annual appraisal process: consideration of emerging risks and their structured basis for assessing the Groups increasing the level of risk management potential impact upon the Group: progress in fostering its desired culture.
training: and introducing an increased greater use of deep-dive reviews which The Committee will continue its periodic range of risk culture metrics to improve will allow Committee members to review of the ongoing cyber enhancement the Groups ability to monitor and assess investigate specific risk-related topics programme and is planning to allocate more its risk culture: in greater detail: and committee time to the risks arising from the Risk appetite: enhancing the Groups making more efficient use of the Groups Data & Analytics business, reflecting risk appetite framework to ensure the Committees time.
the increasing scale of this division.
effective cascading of appetite through all areas of the business and for all The Committee will also increase its review material risk types: of key emerging risks facing the Group, Improving accountability: ensuring including those arising from the rapid pace that there is clear risk management of technological change and potential accountability throughout the Group changes to market structure.
through the adoption of defined risk owners and control owners for all material risks.
This work will assist the Group in its implementation of SMCR: TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 79 Control environment: the adoption of uniform control standards throughout the Group to improve the Groups ability to monitor the status of the control environment and identify any potential remediation actions required.
The Group is also introducing a new control attestation process to reinforce risk management accountability and provide additional assurance: Reporting: enhancing the risk reporting provided to risk governance forums to improve their ability to exercise effective oversight of the Groups risk profile relative to risk appetite, at both consolidated and individual legal entity level: and Stress testing and scenario analysis: enhancing the Groups stress test and scenario analysis programme to provide additional insights into the Groups risk profile, and the adequacy of its capital and financial resources, in both normal and stressed conditions.
David Shalders Chairman Risk Committee 19 March 2019 www.
