68 Governance report Report of the Nominations and Governance Committee Rupert Robson Dear shareholder, Key responsibilities of the Committee Chairman, Nominations The Board has delegated responsibility and Governance Committee This year the Committee had its first full to the Committee for: year after significantly widening its remit Meetings 1 and responsibilities to include oversight of Committee members attended reviewing the balance and skill, governance matters.
I have summarised knowledge and experience of the Rupert Robson 4 4 below the various matters that the Board and Board committees, making Angela Knight 4 4 Committee has dealt with during 2018. recommendations to the Board as to Edmund Ng 4 4 necessary and appropriate Stephen Pull 4 4 Succession planning adjustments in structure, size and David Shalders 4 4 Succession planning and talent review composition: Roger Perkin 4 4 continues to be a very important overseeing succession planning Carol Sergeant 4 4 responsibility for the Committee.
Towards processes for the Board and senior 2 Michael Heaney 3 3 the beginning of the year, the Committee management: 3 Lorraine Trainer 2 2 was joined by the Group Head of HR to making recommendations to the review and discuss succession and talent Board on all proposed new 1 In addition to the scheduled meetings, two further development at senior management and appointments, elections and remeetings were held at short notice, one in May and Executive Director levels.
The Committee elections of Directors at AGMs: one in November.
All members were able to attend reviewed succession plans for the Chief supervising the Board performance the two additional meetings.
Executive Officer and for individual GEC 2 Michael Heaney was appointed as a member of the review process, and overseeing any Committee on 25 January 2018. members, identifying if there were any remedial action required as a result 3 Lorraine Trainer was appointed as a member of the leadership development requirements.
of the Board performance evaluation Committee on 1 July 2018. process concerning the composition Acknowledging the importance of of the Board: How the Committee spent its time during identifying TP ICAPs future senior leaders considering various governance the year in scheduled meetings % and ensuring there is a talent pipeline to matters, including compliance with draw from, the meeting also considered the UK Corporate Governance Code: talent development initiatives, including reviewing the content of key non-pay a leadership development training related workforce policies, including, programme and a global mentoring but not limited to, social and programme.
environmental matters, the Companys Code of Conduct and workforce engagement: reviewing conflicts: and reviewing and approving the Companys share dealing code and related policies.
Governance and CSR 28% Training 22% Routine matters 15% Succession planning 14% Workforce engagment and culture 8% Non-executive Director recruitment 7% Executive Director recruitment 5% Election re-election of Directors 1% The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website: www.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 69 As mentioned in my governance letter, We also highlighted Stephen Pulls The search for a new Chief Financial Officer the succession plans in place allowed the intention to retire from the Board and was commenced at the end of 2017, and this Board to move quickly when it decided the commencement of a search for his was an item of discussion at several that a leadership change was required.
The Nominations and Committee meetings during the first half The Committee has recently resolved to look Governance Committee led the selection of 2018.
Spencer Stuart, an independent deeper into the Groups talent pool during process, agreeing to appoint Russell recruitment consultant with no other 2019 and going forward.
Reynolds, an independent recruitment connection to the Company, was engaged consultant with no other connection to the to conduct the search.
A long list and then Board member recruitment and Company, to conduct the search.
The search a shortlist of possible candidates was appointment of Directors was based on objective criteria, with due prepared, which included Robin Stewart, We set out last year our commitment to regard to the Boards diversity goals, during an internal candidate and the interim Chief ensuring appropriate refreshment of the which a long list and then a shortlist of Financial Officer.
Interviews of shortlisted Non-executive Director complement of possible candidates was prepared.
All candidates were conducted by the Chief the Board, mindful always of our diversity members of the Board participated in Executive Officer, the Chair of the Audit aspirations.
Broadly we hope to establish a interviewing the final two shortlisted Committee and other members of the Board.
pattern of refreshment of one Non-executive candidates before final selection and The views of members of the Committee Director each year.
To this end, the recommendation by the Committee to who had interviewed the candidates were Committee will be paying particular the Board of the appointment of Lorraine discussed at length during Julys wider Board attention to succession planning for those Trainer, who was appointed on 1 July 2018. deliberations about the leadership of the Non-executive Board colleagues with tenure Company, and it was decided to confirm of over six years.
Following specially convened meetings of Robin Stewarts appointment as permanent the Non-executive Directors, Board and Chief Financial Officer on 10 July 2018.
We reported last year on the appointments Remuneration Committee in July, the decision of Edmund Ng and Michael Heaney as was made that John Phizackerley would step Non-executive Directors, who not only down as Chief Executive and member of the brought to the Board their extensive Board.
The succession plan was instigated experience and perspectives of financial and a review undertaken of other possible markets in two of our regions, but also candidates and their availability through a cultural diversity.
Nicolas Breteau was appointed the Companys new Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board on 10 July 2018 after it was confirmed that there was no obviously stronger candidate.
The market mapping exercise was performed with the assistance of Egon Zehnder, an independent recruitment consultant with no other connection to the Company.
com 70 Governance report Report of the Nominations and Governance Committee continued Early in 2018 the Committee discussed Induction Our commitment to increasing the whether the Board might benefit from Each of the new Non-executive Directors percentage of female Board members additional executive representation, and received a comprehensive induction remains.
Throughout the second half of 2018, this was further discussed at a subsequent programme and each has had a briefing the proportion of female Board members meeting.
Recognising the increasing role with external legal advisers on Directors had increased in comparison to the previous that regulation and compliance plays in the duties, roles and liabilities.
Each received year, to 25% or more.
Following Carol Groups operations, and Nicolas Breteau access to the Board and committee packs Sergeants retirement at the end of the being supportive of the proposal, the including minutes and papers from previous year, we have temporarily weakened gender Committee recommended and the Board Board cycles, and had one-to-one induction diversity in terms of proportionality.
This is approved the appointment of Philip Price, meetings with GEC members and other also, to a large extent, a consequence of the Group General Counsel and Group Head of senior managers, including the Company increased size of the Board which will return Compliance, to the Board as an Executive Secretary.
Company constitutional, to more normal levels at the conclusion of Director on 3 September 2018. compliance and governance documentation, the 2019 AGM.
When drawing up selection as well as information relating to the criteria for a Board recruitment process the All appointments were made on merit and Group structure and the expenditure Committee will have regard to diversity, but on the basis that they were considered the control framework, was also provided.
in its widest sense and will remain focused on best candidates to promote the success of The Committee seeks feedback on the recruiting on merit and the best candidate the Company.
induction process from newly appointed for any role.
However, in all searches for members of the Board with a view to Board members, female candidates are Following the announcement that I would improving the programme.
This was the case in 2018 for the be retiring as Chairman of the Company, searches for the Board Chairman designate, Angela Knight, as Senior Independent Board skills, experience and diversity the Chair elect of the Remuneration Director, led the search for my replacement, A balanced Board with a broad range of Committee and the Chief Financial Officer.
a process in which I took no part.
The skills, experience, knowledge and diversity announcement of Richard Berliands is more likely to be an effective Board.
Our ability to increase our female appointment as Chairman designate was The Committee, led by the Chairman, representation at Board level depends made in December, and he was appointed to makes recommendations to the Board on the availability of suitable candidates, the Board on 19 March 2019.
Angela Knight on Board appointments and succession, and we remain committed to extending provides some insight into the search process to ensure there is an appropriate balance diversity at all levels of the organisation.
on page 56. of skills and experience and to ensure The continued entry of diverse candidates progressive refreshing of the Board, to our sector is vital, as is the retention and but always having regard to diversity development of current talent within aspirations.
In considering diversity, we the Company.
look at it in its broadest sense, not just in respect of gender, but also age, experience, ethnicity and geographical expertise.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 71 Governance Election and re-election of Directors During the year, the Committee has paid The Committee takes into account the results particular attention to the evolving corporate of the evaluations of individual Directors governance and regulatory environment, see page 65 for further information to assist bringing in external subject matter experts in determining whether to recommend to the to discuss the implications of the changes to Board the election or re-election of Directors the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well at every Annual General Meeting, as as to work through the considerations in the required in accordance with the Companys event of a takeover bid scenario, from a Articles of Association.
The Committee has Market Abuse Regulations, Listing Rules considered the mix of skills and background and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the members of the Board and considers point of view.
The Committee considered that this mix is currently appropriate to the how best to bring the employee voice into Companys requirements.
The Board exhibits the boardroom: further information on gender and cultural diversity, and the range what was agreed may be found on pages of skills and backgrounds encompasses 57 and 66. financial, commercial, operating, control, political and international attributes.
The Committee also looked at crisis escalation and management in a cyber All Non-executive Directors have submitted context, agreeing a new escalation themselves for election or re-election at the framework and hearing how crises are 2019 AGM with the exception of Stephen managed in a very different context by Pull and myself.
Richard Berliand, Lorraine the City of London Police.
Trainer, Nicolas Breteau, Robin Stewart, and Philip Price will be submitting themselves for Among the other matters considered by election for the first time in accordance with the Committee during 2018 were the Board our Articles of Association.
The Committee effectiveness evaluation process, charitable is pleased to recommend all Directors for giving proposals and the set up of a election or re-election at the AGM in 2019.
Given the length of service of each of Angela Knight and Roger Perkin, their evaluations The Committee conducted an internal were subject to rigorous scrutiny prior to review of its effectiveness and determined making a recommendation for their that it was operating well in most areas.
The biographies of the Directors There were some specific areas for standing for election or re-election can be improvement identified and action agreed found on pages 54 and 55. to enhance oversight of senior management bench strength and talent management to refresh Director knowledge and to improve stakeholder engagement.
Rupert Robson Chairman Nominations and Governance Committee 19 March 2019 www.
