qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 33 Directors Hugh Seaborn, joined the Board of the Simon Marrison, joined the Board of Company on 24 July 2007 and became the Company on 28 September 2011.
He is a Chartered Mr Marrison is CEO of Europe at LaSalle Surveyor and has considerable Investment Management and has experience in the property arena: he is responsibility for a portfolio of over the Chief Executive officer of the 20billion across Europe.
He was a member of has been based in Paris since 1990 the Council and Audit Committee of the having started his career in London.
Until Hugh Seaborn Simon Marrison Duchy of Lancaster until December 1997 he was a partner at Healey & Baker 2013.
From 2000 to 2009, he was Chief now Cushman & Wakeeld and from Executive officer of the Portman Estate, 1997 to 2001 he was at Rodamco he is Chairman of the Knightsbridge where he became Country Manager for Business Group, is past Chairman of the France.
He joined LaSalle in 2001 as Estates Business Group and past Managing Director for Continental Chairman of the Westminster Property Europe and became CEO of the entire Owners Association.
David Watson, joined the Board of the Suzie Procter, joined the Board of the Company on 1 April 2012.
He became Company on 1 March 2013.
She has Chairman of the Companys Audit 36 years experience in financial markets Committee on 1 January 2013 and also with specic expertise in asset became the SID in July 2016.
He is management including 11 years as a Chartered Accountant and has had a global xed income portfolio manager a distinguished career in the Financial and 16 years in business Services Industry.
He spent 9 years as development marketing across all asset David Watson Suzie Procter Finance Director of M&G Group plc, classes.
Her executive roles include Head where he was a director of four equity of Institutional Sales and Consultant investment trusts, and more recently at Relations at INVESCO, Managing Director Aviva plc as Chief Finance officer of Aviva at Lazard Asset Management and Partner General Insurance.
He is currently and member of the Executive Deputy Chairman of Countrywide plc and Committee at Cantillon Capital a non-executive director of Kames Management.
Capital plc and Hermes Fund Managers Limited, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is also Chairman of The Tennis & Rackets Association Limited.
Tim Gillbanks, joined the Board of the Company on 23 January 2018.
Tim is a Chartered Accountant, with 30 years experience in the financial services and investments industry.
Most recently he spent 13 years at Columbia Threadneedle Investments, initially as Chief Financial officer, then Chief Tim Gillbanks Operating officer and nally as interim Chief Executive officer.
Tim brings a wide experience of investment management to the Board.
All directors are independent of the manager and are members of the Audit Committee.
