qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 43 Report of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Chairman: Mr Seaborn Key Responsibilities l Review the Board and its Committees and make recommendations in relation to structure, size and composition, the balance of knowledge, experience and skill ranges: l Consider succession planning and tenure policy: and l Review the outcome of the board evaluation process.
The Nomination Committee meets at least on an annual basis, and more frequently as and when required and last met in March 2018.
Activity during the year A key issue that the Committee considered this year was the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director following the resignation of John Glen from the Board at the end of July 2017.
Spencer Stuart, who do not have any connection with the Company, were engaged to assist in identifying potential candidates and were given a role prole outlining the skills, attributes and experience that the Board was looking for in a successful candidate.
A range of candidates from various backgrounds and industries were considered and a short list was compiled.
Those on the shortlist were then formally interviewed by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The preferred candidates then met with the other Directors.
Following this process, the Committee concluded that Tim Gillbanks was the best candidate for the role, with his wide experience of the investment management industry and background as a chartered accountant, which will be inuential in contributing in the Audit Committee and supporting the Companys focus on succession planning by bringing valuable skills to the Board.
On the recommendation of the Committee, the Board agreed the appointment.
The Committee annually reviews its size and structure of the Board and will continue to review succession planning and recruitment further.
When considering future appointments of Directors, the Nomination Committee, will look at the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, including gender diversity of the Board and will also take into account recommendations from the external board evaluations.
The Committee will also consider the use of external consultants, as appropriate, when shortlisting candidates.
Board Evaluation In order to review the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and of its individual Directors, an evaluation was carried out for the Board.
This was done in the form of a questionnaire.
The process was considered by the Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and the Committees, areas for additional focus going forward, the contribution of individual Directors, as well as building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
The Chairmans effectiveness was assessed by all other Board members and views fed back to the Senior independent Director.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director confirm that the performance of each director continues to be effective and demonstrates their commitment to the role.
This includes extensive time for ad hoc communications throughout the year in addition to formal Board and Committee meetings.
The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, experience and length of service to ensure it operates effectively.
The performance of the Company is considered in detail at each Board meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, it is the intention of the Board to engage an external facilitator to assist with the performance evaluation every three years.
An external Board evaluation was last carried out in January 2017.
TR Property Investment Trust 43 TR Property pp33-58.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 44 Report of the Nomination Committee continued Directors Training When a new Director is appointed, he she is offered training to suit their needs.
Directors are also provided with key information on the Companys activities on a regular basis, including regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, statutory and industry matters.
Letters of Appointment No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company and will be on display at the AGM.
Hugh Seaborn Chairman of the Nomination Committee 6 June 2018 TR Property Investment Trust 44 GOVERNANCE
