qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 50 Report of the Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman: Mr Watson Key Responsibilities l Review the internal financial and non-financial controls: l Review reports from key third party service providers: l Consider and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the draft Interim and Annual Reports: l Review accounting policies and significant financial reporting judgements: l Monitor, together with the Manager, the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements: and l Review the performance and remuneration of the external auditor.
Representatives of the Managers internal audit and compliance departments may attend these committee meetings at the Committee Chairmans request.
Representatives of the Companys Auditor attend the Committee meetings at which the draft Interim and Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members without the presence of the representatives of the Manager.
The Board recognises the requirement for the Audit Committee as a whole to have competence relevant to the sector and at least one member with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman and Mr Gillbanks are Chartered Accountants with extensive and recent experience in the Financial Services Industry.
The other members of the Committee have a combination of property, financial, investment and business experience through senior positions held throughout their careers.
Activity during the year During the year the Committee met twice with all members at each meeting and considered the following: l The Groups Internal Controls and consideration of the Reports thereon and Risk Map l The ISAE AAF and SSAE16 reports or their equivalent from F&C and BNP Paribas l Whether the Company should have its own internal audit function.
l The impact and processes relating to the new regulation particularly MiFIDII, the requirements under PRIIPS and GDPR l The External Auditors Planning Memorandum setting out the scope of the annual audit and proposed key areas of focus l The reports from the Auditors concerning their audit of the Financial Statements of the Company and Consideration of significant issues in relation to the Financial Statements l The appropriateness of, and any changes to, the accounting policies of the Company, including the reasonableness of any judgements required by such policies l The Viability Statement and consideration of the preparation of the Financial Statements on a Going Concern Basis taking account of forward looking income forecasts, the liquidity of the investment portfolio and debt prole TR Property Investment Trust 50 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE TR Property pp33-58.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 51 Report of the Audit Committee continued l The financial and other disclosures in the Financial Statements l The information presented in the Interim and Annual Reports to assess whether, taken as a whole, the Reports are fair, balanced and understandable and the information presented will enable the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy l The performance of the external auditors, to approve their audit fees and consider the assessment of independence Internal controls and management of risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Internal Controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Key risks identied by the Auditors are considered by the Audit Committee to ensure that robust internal controls and monitoring procedures in respect of these are in place on an ongoing basis.
Further details can be found on pages 28 to 30.
The Audit Committee received and considered reports on Internal Controls from the key service providers.
No areas of concern were highlighted.
The Companys Risk Map was considered to identify any new risks and whether any adjustments were required to existing risks, and the controls and mitigation measures in place in respect of these risks.
Based on the processes and controls in place within the BMO Group and other significant service providers, the Board has concurred that there is no current need for the Company to have a dedicated internal audit function.
significant Issues in relation to the Financial Statements The Committee has considered this report and financial statements and the Viability Statement on page 31.
The Committee considered the Auditors assessment of risk of material misstatement and reviewed the internal controls in place in respect of the key areas identied and the process by which the Board monitors each of the procedures to give the Committee comfort on these risks on an ongoing basis.
These risks are also highlighted in the Companys Risk Map.
l Valuation of the Groups Quoted investments The Groups investments are priced for the daily NAV by BNP Paribas.
The quoted assets are priced by the Administrators Global Pricing Platform which uses independent external pricing sources.
The control process surrounding this is set out in the BNP Paribas AAF 01 06 Internal Controls Report and testing by the reporting accountant for the period reported to 31 December 2017 did not reveal any significant exceptions.
The quarterly control report to the Board from BNP Paribas covering the period up to 31 March 2018 had no issues to report.
In addition the Manager estimates the NAV using an alternative pricing source on a daily basis as an independent check.
l Valuation of the Groups Direct Property Investments The physical property portfolio is valued every six months by professional independent valuers.
Knight Frank LLP value the portfolio on the basis of Fair Value in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards VPS4 1.5 Fair Value and VPGA 1 Valuations for Inclusion in Financial Statements, which apply the denition of Fair Value adopted by the International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS 13 defines Fair Value as: The amount for which an asset could be exchanged, a liability settled, or an equity instrument granted could be exchanged, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
In undertaking their valuation of each property, Knight Frank have made their assessment on the basis of a collation and analysis of appropriate comparable investments, rental and sale transactions, together with evidence of demand TR Property Investment Trust 51 TR Property pp33-58.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 52 Report of the Audit Committee continued within the vicinity of each property.
This information has then been applied to the properties, taking into account size, location, terms, covenant and other material factors.
There has been nothing brought to the Committees attention in respect of the financial statements for the period ended 31 March 2018, which was material or significant or that the Committee felt should be brought to shareholders attention.
Auditor assessment and independence The Companys external auditor is KPMG LLP.
In March 2016, the Company conducted a full audit tender process as the previous auditors, Ernst and Young, being in ofce for in excess of 20 years would have been required to retire under the new legislation following the 2019 audit.
As a result of the tender process, KPMG LLP were appointed by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee expects to repeat a tender process in 2026 in respect of the audit for the year ended 31 March 2027, in line with the latest Corporate Governance provisions and EU Requirements.
During the year, KPMG presented their Audit Plan for the year end at the interim Committee meeting and the Committee considered the audit process and fee proposal.
The Committee also reviewed KPMGs independence policies and procedures including quality assurance procedures, it was considered that these policies are t for purpose and the Directors are satisfied that KPMG are independent.
Total fees payable to the Auditor in respect of the audit for the year to 31 March 2018 were: 70,000, 2017 72,000, which were approved by the Audit Committee.
Additionally, during the year fees of 15,000 were paid to the Auditor in respect of the audit of subsidiaries of the Company for prior-period audits.
The Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board with a view to ensuring that the external Auditor does not provide non-audit services that have the potential to impair or appear to impair the independence of their audit role.
The Committee does not believe there to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity and independence.
The fees for non-audit services for the year to 31 March 2018 were nil 2017: nil.
Full details of the Auditors fees are provided in note 6 to the accounts on page 69.
Following each audit, the Committee reviews the audit process and considers its effectiveness and the quality of the services provided to the Company.
The review following the completion of the 2018 Audit concluded that the Committee was satisfied with the Auditors effectiveness and performance.
The Committee felt that KPMG had run an effective and efficient audit process with appropriate challenge.
The Committee was extremely satisfied with the auditors performance and a resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
David Watson Chairman of the Audit Committee 6 June 2018 TR Property Investment Trust 52 GOVERNANCE
