qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 39 Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
This statement describes how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in 2016 have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
The Code can be viewed at www.
Application of the AIC Codes Principles In applying the principles of the Code, the Directors have also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the AIC the AIC Code, which established the framework of best practice specically for the Boards of investment trust companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid down by the two Codes and there are some areas where the AIC Code is more exible for investment trust companies.
The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
The Directors believe that during the period under review they have complied with the Main Principles and relevant provisions of the Code, insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions of the AIC Code.
Compliance Statement The Directors note that the Company did not comply with the following provisions of the Code in the year ended 31 March 2018: A.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company the Board of non-executive directors does not feel it is necessary to appoint a chief executive.
C. 3.5 & C. 3.6 As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
D. 2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration Committee are carried out by the Management Engagement Committee.
Composition and Independence of the Board The Board currently consists of five directors, all of whom are non-executive and are independent of the Manager.
None of the Directors have any other links to the Manager.
The Board believes that diversity of experience and approach, including gender diversity, amongst board members is of great importance and it is the Companys policy to give careful consideration to issues of board balance and diversity when making new appointments.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
There are no contracts or arrangements with third parties which affect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
