Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Nominations Committee report For the year ended 31 December 2018 Stuart Chambers Chairman 25 February 2019 As Chairman of the Nominations Committee, I am pleased to The Committee started planning for the succession of the present the Nominations Committees report for the year ended CEO in 2018 and this process will be concluded in 2019.
The Nominations Committee performs The Committee will continue to review the composition of the an important role, demonstrated by the fact that in addition to Board and its Committees and the Groups long-term succession myself, all of the Non-executive Directors are also members of planning at Board and executive level.
Supporting our strategy to the Committee.
simplify the business and improve returns will remain Our current Board members each bring a variety of a key priority for 2019. individual skills, knowledge and experience to the Board and the Committees on which they serve.
During the year the Role of the nominations committee Committee reviewed the size and composition of the Board and created a skills matrix setting out the core skills of the The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to regularly Board members against the broad range of skills required for review the structure, size and composition of the Board, to running the business.
This provides a framework for considering support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to ensure that the skills the Committee may wish to prioritise when preparing effective succession planning processes are in place for Directors Non-executive Director role briefs and when evaluating and other senior executives and to ensure there are formal, potential new candidates.
A summary of the skills of serving rigorous and transparent processes in place for the appointment Non-executive Directors can be found in the biographies of Directors to the Board and other senior executives.
The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which are available on the Groups corporate website www.
co. uk 90 Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The preparation of a long list of potential candidates taking Committee membership into account diversity considerations and the outcome of the and meeting attendance Committees latest review of the composition and skill sets of the Board The Nominations Committee comprises all Non-executive The selection of a shortlist of suitable candidates meeting the Directors see biographies on pages 56 to 58 and is chaired Committees criteria by Stuart Chambers, the Chairman of the Board, other than when it is dealing with matters in relation to the chairmanship Interviews of those candidates by a selection of members of of the Company.
Directors, other employees of the Company, the Board and external advisors are invited to attend meetings when Candidate assessments appropriate.
Following selection of the proposed candidate, interviews with The Committee held eight formal meetings during the year.
the remaining members of the Board and the taking up of Attendance is set out in the Governance Report on page 61. detailed references Activities in 2018 Board diversity The Committee has noted the recommendations of the Davies The principal activities undertaken by the Committee in the Review and Hampton-Alexander Review.
It is the Groups firm yearwere: belief that having diversity in the Executives and Non-executives on the Board provides us with different perspectives, which planning for the succession of the CEO promotes a healthy culture with a good balance between reviewing the size, diversity, skills and experience of the Board challenge and support and minimises the risk of group-thinking.
in light of the future needs of the business This does not just make good commercial and business sense, but it is positive for the Groups colleagues and its customers In 2019 the Committee will be focused on: aswell.
completing the CEO succession process It is part of the Committees policy when making new Board appointments to consider the importance of diversity, including planning Board composition changes gender diversity.
Job specifications, search processes and succession planning for Board Committee chairman roles, selection criteria are also focused on appointing candidates that notably the Audit Committee meet the criteria for the role and who offer different perspectives.
The Board is committed to appointing the best people and developing a central talent programme with diversity initiatives ensuring all employees are able to develop their careers within the Group regardless of their background, gender, age or ethnicity.
Process for appointments The Group believes that diversity should be considered broadly and not just focusing on one element such as gender and the The Committee guides the Board in regularly assessing whether Group therefore does not believe it is appropriate to set targets in there is an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the this area.
A rigorous selection process precedes the appointment The Group currently has two female Board directors 22% of all Directors by the Board, ensuring that appointments to the and one woman on its Executive Committee 9%.
Further Board are made on merit and assessed against objective criteria.
details of the Groups workforce diversity are set out in the The Committee oversees on behalf of the Board, and advises Our People section on pages 42 to 44.
The Groups gender the Board on, the identification, assessment and selection of pay gap report is available on the Groups corporate website.
candidates for appointment to the Board.
The appointment The Nominations Committee Report has been approved by the process includes: Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Agreeing the key skills, attributes and business experience required for the role Stuart Chambers The preparation of a role description Chairman The engagement of independent recruitment consultants 25 February 2019 A market search conducted by the recruitment consultant 91
