Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Audit Committee report For the year ended 31 December 2018 Ruth Anderson Chairman, Audit Committee 25 February 2019 I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report for the year Role of the Audit Committee ended 31 December 2018, which sets out our work in relation to financial reporting, internal audit and risk management and The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight oversight of the external audit process.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: This year saw further preparation for the new accounting Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the standard IFRS 16 Leases which will be significant for the Group Company and any formal announcements relating to the because of the large number of leases it holds, the value of which Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial will be included in the balance sheet in future.
Although IFRS 16 reporting judgements contained in them Leases did not come into force until 1 January 2019, because of the scale and significance of the work, the Audit Committee has Review the Companys internal financial controls and the monitored progress in preparing for this new standard as well as systems of internal control and risk management agreeing the approach to implementing it.
Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Also during the year the Group recruited a new Director of audit function Internal Audit and Risk.
Nicola Bartley joined mid-year and, Maintain an appropriate relationship with the Companys with managements and the Committees support, has focused external auditors and review the independence, objectivity and on adding further Internal Audit resources now needed in the effectiveness of the audit process, taking account of relevant business, reassessing the Internal Audit strategy and starting work professional, regulatory and ethical guidance on refreshing the Groups risk management framework.
Work on developing further the Groups risk management processes will The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which continue in 2019. are reviewed annually.
They were last updated in December2018 I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any and are available on the Groups corporate website.
questions about the work of the Committee.
co. uk 66 Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The Groups cyber attack response Committee membership and The effectiveness and independence of Internal Audit and the meeting attendance external auditors The Committee comprised Ruth Anderson, who chaired the The Committee reviewed managements approach to mitigating Committee, Coline McConville, Christopher Rogers and John the risks created by the Groups ageing systems and reviewed Rogers throughout 2018. system, process and control changes introduced by management in All members are independent Non-executive Directors.
Three response to these risks.
The Committee has asked for the inclusion of the members have recent and relevant financial experience of a review of the key preventative and detective controls related to and all members have expertise relevant to the Companys the legacy systems in the 2019 Internal Audit plan.
sector, gained through a variety of corporate and professional appointments as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code In addition there are a number of standing agenda items which see biographies on pages 56 and 58. the Committee considered at each of its meetings: The Deputy Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee Internal Audit reports throughout 2018. criminal activity investigations, bribery, whistleblowing, and The Committee held five formal meetings during 2018.
Attendance at cyber attack reports meetings is set out in the Governance Report on page 61.
The Group progress on implementing recommendations arising from Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel internal and external audit work & Company Secretary, Director of Group Finance, Director of Internal Audit, Group Chief Accountant and external auditors also attended the non-audit fees Committees meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
Separate meetings with the Director of Internal Audit and with the external In carrying out these activities the Committee places reliance auditors without the presence of management were also held with the on regular reports from management, Internal Audit and the Committee Chairman and with the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that it received sufficient, reliable and timely information to enable it to fulfil its As well as attending the Audit Committee meetings, the responsibilities during the year.
Committee members met with operational and finance team members during the year.
The Board is updated on key matters and recommendations following each Audit Committee meeting.
Work of the Committee Significant issues related to the There is an annual work plan which is regularly reviewed by the financial statements Committee to ensure that it encompasses all matters the Committee needs to consider to fulfil its corporate governance responsibilities.
The Audit Committee has assessed whether suitable accounting The Committee gives due consideration to the annual report policies have been adopted by the Group and whether and financial statements and results announcements prepared management has made appropriate judgements and estimates.
by management and the associated press releases issued at The table overleaf sets out the key judgement areas associated the half-year and year-end.
In discharging its financial reporting with the Groups financial statements for the year-ended responsibilities the Committee reviewed accounting policies 31December 2018 that were considered by the Audit Committee.
and compliance with accounting standards, going concern and This is not a complete list of all accounting issues, estimates and viability assumptions, significant financial reporting estimates and policies, but includes those which the Committee believes are the judgements made during the preparation of the Groups interim most significant.
In reaching its conclusions, set out in more detail in the table, In addition, during the year, the Committee reviewed: the Committee considered papers and explanations given The Groups systems of internal control, the effectiveness by management, discussed each matter in detail, challenged of controls and managements continuing control assumptions and judgements made and sought clarification improvementprogramme where necessary.
It reviewed and discussed any internal audit reports in respect of the matters under consideration and the The control framework for new IT systems under development Committee also received a report from the external auditors Managements approach to accounting developments and on the work undertaken to arrive at the conclusions set out in the Groups readiness for their implementation, notably the their audit report on pages 98 to 105 and had the opportunity to implementation of IFRS 16 Leases discuss it with them in depth.
The Groups approach to risk, key risks and the effectiveness of The process of replacing ageing systems in the Groups major the risk management framework businesses with new systems began in 2018 and will continue for several years.
The Committee reviewed the judgements made The external audit plan, audit conduct and audit findings in accounting for the development of these new systems and The internal audit plan and resourcing, alongside a revised assessed the judgements made by management in determining strategy for the development of Internal Audits activities which elements of ongoing software development activity had ceased to meet the criteria in IAS 38 Intangible Assets for The Groups tax strategy and compliance capitalisation as development spend and so required impairment.
67 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Area Issue and Nature of Judgement Factors Considered and Conclusions Reached Accounting for inventory To meet customer expectations During the year management regularly reported on inventory and inventory valuation the Group carries a wide range of valuation and provisioning to the Committee and did so again at inventory in over 2,000 locations.
its meeting to discuss the year-end Annual Report & Accounts.
Inventory should be included in the The Committee reviewed and discussed the information balance sheet at the lower of cost or presented about gross inventory values and the adjustments net realisable value.
At 31 December made by management to reduce inventory carrying values inventory was valued at 0.9bn.
to allow for rebates and fixed price discounts attributable to inventory and provisions to reflect obsolescence or slow The determination of cost is movinginventory.
made more difficult by the ageing accounting systems and also by The Committee assessed the judgements made by management material rebate and fixed price and concluded from the information it had received and its discount agreements, so requiring discussions with management and the Auditors that inventory regular reconciliations in areas was fairly stated in the balance sheet.
such as goods received not Further information is given in the balance sheet on page 107 and invoiced accruals.
in the notes to the financial statements note 10 inventories and note 11 supplier income.
Accounting for rebate The terms of supplier agreements During the year the Committee discussed reports presented by income and fixed result in a significant value of management about the progress of improvements to systems, price discounts Supplier Income being received controls and processes which included the implementation of supplier income by the Group.
The calculation of a new deal tracking and rebate management system.
It also the value receivable and the value received reports that enabled it to monitor supplier income deferred into stock is complicated collection rates and compare them with the prior year and it due to the number, nature and discussed the Groups adherence to its accounting policies structure of the agreements in place.
However, only two agreements are A summary of supplier income received during the year and not coterminous with the Groups amounts included in the balance sheet at 31 December 2018 was accounting year end.
Furthermore, given to the Committee at the meeting held to consider the yearapproximately 80% of amounts due end results.
The Committee reviewed managements judgements to the Group are received during the regarding the estimates of supplier income and amounts included course of the year.
Therefore the key in the balance sheet.
judgements relate to the calculation The Committee concluded that the controls over recognising and of the total value of rebates and fixed recovering supplier income were appropriate, that the 381m price discounts still to be received at of supplier income included in debtors or offset against creditors the year-end and the value of fixed was recoverable and that the amount set against the gross price discounts and rebates to be set carrying value of stock was appropriate.
against the gross value of inventory in the balance sheet.
Further information is given in the financial statements note 11 supplierincome.
68 Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Area Issue and Nature of Judgement Factors Considered and Conclusions Reached The carrying value The Group balance sheet contains The cash flow forecasts used for impairment considerations are of goodwill and other 1.5bn of goodwill and other prepared from the strategic business plans presented to, and intangibles and tangible intangible assets with indefinite approved by, the Board of Directors annually.
fixed assets useful lives that arose from historical Management presented the Committee with papers setting out acquisitions and 0.9bn of tangible the results of the work done, the assumptions made and the fixed assets.
They explained to the Committee how the The Directors are required to cash flow and discount rate calculations were prepared, the key determine annually whether those assumptions and judgements that were made and how sensitive assets have suffered any impairment.
those cash flows were to changes in the key assumptions.
They do so by comparing the present After reviewing managements papers and obtaining further value of future cash flows for each explanation where necessary, the Committee concluded that cash generating unit with the carrying management had taken a consistent, balanced and reasoned value of assets.
approach to preparing its calculations and that the judgements In addition, the Company made were acceptable.
It noted that the value in use model used balance sheet contains 3.6bn of by management showed that all material cash generating units investments in subsidiaries.
The except for Wickes and Tile Giant had significant headroom.
Directors compare the net present The Committee concurred with the 252m impairment values of future cash flows from each recognised in respect of Wickes and Tile Giant.
investment to the carrying value of The Committee also discussed the calculations supporting the the investment in the balance sheet.
carrying value of investments held by the parent Company and The calculations undertaken to help concurred with managements conclusions.
arrive at a conclusion incorporate a Further information is given in the financial statements: consideration of the risks associated with each cash generating unit and note 8 goodwill and other intangible assets, which sets out are based upon forecasts of their details of the Groups intangible fixed assets and associated long-term future cash flows, which accounting policies by their nature require judgement note 27 impairment, which outlines key variables applied to be exercised and are subject to to the value-in-use calculations and sensitivity of results to considerable uncertainty.
Internal audit During 2018 the Committee reviewed and approved a revised strategy for the development of Internal Audit activities, which Internal Audit executed a risk-based audit plan, focused on areas is designed to support the teams ongoing conformance to of significant risk, development and change within the Group.
professional standards, to continue to align the work of Internal The annual plan of activity, reviewed and approved by the Audit Audit with key risks and business priorities Committee, is constructed through Internal Audit evaluation and to move to greater use of technology in the delivery of audits.
and consultation with the Executive Committee and other key The Committee will review progress in 2019.
Taking into account stakeholders in the business.
Audit activities are reviewed at these developments, along with the performance of the Internal each Committee meeting and updated as business priorities Audit team, the Committee was satisfied with the overall and risks change.
The 2018 audit plan covered a broad range of effectiveness of the Internal Audit function during the year.
operational, legal and regulatory, IT and transformation activities, as well as a continued focus on reviewing financial controls in Risk management and internal controls areas considered higher risk.
Core key financial control areas are audited regularly, with annual reviews of balance sheet control Details of risks faced by the Group are maintained in Group or accounts and statements by the divisions on their compliance business risk registers.
These risks are regularly reviewed by with internal financialcontrols.
the Executive Committee and the Board to assess the potential Audits were delivered by the in-house Internal Audit team and the impact and likelihood of occurrence, after taking into account key Groups co-source partners.
The allocation of work was dependent controls and mitigating factors.
Additional mitigating actions are on the specialist skills required, particularly in areas such as IT and identified where necessary and agreed with relevant business data protection.
The Groups approach to risk was reviewed in 2018 and risk identification workshops were run with the major business At each meeting the Committee considered reports from Internal units.
As a result of this the processes to capture and assess risks Audit setting out the findings from the audits carried out.
It also will be refreshed during 2019. continued to review the implementation of recommendations proposed by Internal Audit and agreed by management, through Risks are managed at a Group level or within the business units an Internal Audit system which tracks activity on all active on an ongoing basis.
The principal risks and uncertainties are set recommendations by age and level of risk to the business.
out on pages 34 to 41, together with information on how those risks are mitigated.
69 69 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The Audit Committee monitors the key elements of the Independence and objectivity Companys internal control framework throughout the year and One of the Committees responsibilities is to ensure compliance has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Companys with the Boards policy on services provided by and fees paid risk management and internal controls.
The internal control to the external auditor.
The policy, which was reviewed by the framework is intended to manage rather than eliminate the Committee during the year, sets out the work that is permitted risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only to be performed by the external auditor and the work which provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material isprohibited.
The process for approving all non-audit work provided by The Groups control framework has developed over many years the external auditor is overseen by the Committee in order to and there are a significant number of systems replacements safeguard the objectivity and independence of the auditor.
The changes will improve control processes and to approval consideration is given to whether it is in the interests ensure greater consistency across the control environment.
of the Company that the services are purchased from KPMG rather than another supplier.
In 2018 KPMG did not provide any Management has continued its programme of work to improve services not connected to the audit except for the maintenance of the control environment.
The Audit Committee will monitor the Groups employee benefits system.
progress through the year and reviewing these programmes will continue to be an area of focus for Internal Audit.
From 2019 KPMG will no longer provide any services that are not connected to the audit except for maintenance of the Groups employee benefits system which will continue until the current External auditor maintenance contract ends in 2021.
KPMG LLP has been the external auditor since 2015.
There are Non-audit fees require approval and the amount payable to the no contractual restrictions on the Group with regards to this external auditor in any particular year cannot exceed 70% of the appointment.
In accordance with current professional standards, average of the current and prior two years audit fee.
the partner responsible for the audit will change every 5 years.
The Company will re-tender the external audit in accordance with Reporting the timescales set out in Financial Reporting Council guidance.
The Chief Financial Officer reports to the Committee on fees for non-audit services payable to the external auditor at every Audit scope and effectiveness meeting.
As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during the year The scope of the external audit of the 2018 Annual Report the Auditors were paid 1,101,000 2017: 935,000 for and Accounts was presented by the external auditor to the audit-related work, and 119,000 2017: 120,000 for nonCommittee in September 2018 so the Committee had the audit work.
Non-audit work related to the review of the Groups opportunity to discuss and challenge the audit plan and gain interim financial statements and the maintenance of the Groups a good understanding of the key elements.
In addition, 3.7m 2017: 3.7m of fees were paid to other accounting firms for non-audit work.
The The Committee considers the effectiveness of the external total fees paid by the Group to KPMG LLP in 2018 amount to less auditor during the year and, with input from management, carries than 0.05% of KPMGs UK fee income.
out a formal review of its performance after the year-end audit has been completed.
Assessment of the external auditor In undertaking this assessment the Committee considers: Having considered the external auditors performance and representations from the auditors about their internal the experience and expertise of the auditor independence processes, the Committee concluded that it was the completion of the agreed external audit plan satisfied with the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor and recommended to the Board that it the content, quality of insights and added value of external recommend KPMG be reappointed by shareholders at the Annual auditreports General Meeting on 8 May 2019. the robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in This report has been approved by the Board of Directors and their handling of key accounting and audit judgements signed on its behalf by: the interaction between management and the auditor the provision of non-audit services Ruth Anderson Chairman, Audit Committee 25 February 2019 70 Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Mindaugas Joga - Travis Perkins, Gowerton Road 71
