Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance report For the year ended 31 December 2018 Stuart Chambers Chairman 25 February 2019 I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report for the defer this.
I am pleased to report that we have completed an year ended 31December 2018.  evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
Further details are set out on page 63.
Good governance is essential to the successful delivery of our long-term strategy and the way in which our business operates Looking forward, the Board and I welcome the Financial on a day-to-day basis.
The Board is committed to maintaining Reporting Councils updated UK Corporate Governance Code the highest standards across the Group for the benefit of all our the new Code.
The new Code places an explicit requirement stakeholders.
on us as Directors and as a Board to consider the views of our stakeholders and the impact of our activities on wider Over the past year, the primary focus of the Board has been the society.
The new Code aligns with our focus on colleagues development of our strategy to simplify the Group and improve and customers, who are central to our strategy.
The new Code returns by focusing on our trade customers.
The Board has also applies to the Company from the 2019 financial year so we are been preparing for the succession of the Group CEO.
Whilst vital reporting against the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code in at all times, strong and effective governance will be especially this Governance Report.
critical to managing the volume of change and the delivery of our commitments during the implementation of our strategy.
All members of the Board will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
We were due to carry out an external Board evaluation in 2017.
However, due to the timing of my appointment, we decided to 59 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Other colleagues are invited to attend Executive Committee UK Corporate Governance Code meetings from time to time in relation to specific matters.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2018, the Company The main purpose of the Executive Committee is to assist the was in full compliance with the provisions set out in the April Executive Directors in the performance of their duties, 2016 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by particularly in relation to: the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
uk Development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets 1.
Leadership The monitoring of operational and financial performance The assessment and control of risk Role of the Board and Committees The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the The prioritisation and allocation of resources Company and is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and governed.
Principally The Company maintains Directors & Officers insurance this is achieved through: in respect of the risk of claims against Directors which is reviewed annually.
Setting the overall Group strategy Setting the tone and approach to corporate governance Board meetings The Board held eight scheduled meetings in 2018.
Regular items Approval of expansion plans and major capital expenditure at Board meetings included detailed updates on health and Consideration of significant financial and operational matters safety, reports on progress towards strategic objectives, reviews and the Groups exposure to key risks of the Companys financial position and performance against KPIs.
Other topics considered included strategic reviews of The Board also has a schedule of matters reserved to it, which business units and divisions, funding, capital expenditure, investor is reviewed annually.
Revisions were made in December 2018 to feedback, risk and governance.
reflect latest best practice and the operations of the Group.
The During the year the Board visited a number of operational sites schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available on the and held an offsite strategy meeting.
The agenda for meetings is Groups corporate website www.
agreed by the Chairman in conjunction with the Chief Executive In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, certain Board and the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
Agendas responsibilities are delegated to the Boards Committees, which are based on an annual plan and also include topical items and play an important role in supporting the Board.
The Board matters of particular interest or concern to the Board.
has four Committees: Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and Key financial and other relevant information is circulated to the Stay Safe.
All committees operate within defined terms of Directors outside of formal meetings.
The Chairman monitors reference which are reviewed annually and these are available the information provided to the Board both at and outside of on the Groups corporate website.
The minutes of all committee meetings to ensure it is sufficient, timely and clear.
meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Between Board meetings the Chairman maintains frequent The Board has delegated responsibility for the execution of the direct contact with the Executive and Non-executive Directors Groups strategy and the day-to-day management and operation and keeps the Non-executive Directors informed of material of the Groups business to the Executive Committee.
At meetings the Chairman ensures that each Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and its members are: Director is able to make an effective contribution within an atmosphere of transparency and constructive debate.
Chief Executive Officer John Carter Group Chief Operating Officer Tony Buffin Frank Elkins Chief Operating Officer, Merchanting Andrew Harrison Deputy CEO, Plumbing and Heating Carol Kavanagh Group Human Resources Director Simon King Managing Director, Wickes Chief Information Officer Patrick Knight Group Property Director Martin Meech Robin Miller Company Secretary and General Counsel Alan Williams Chief Financial Officer 60 Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The Company liaises closely with the Non-executive Directors to telephone conference if there is an issue with location or travel.
ensure as far as possible that clashes with external appointments The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each are avoided.
Directors are able to attend meetings by video or Director during the year is detailed in the table below.
plc Audit Nominations Remuneration Stay Safe Overall Board Committee Committee Committee Committee attendance Number of meetings 8 5 8 4 3 Ruth Anderson 8 5 - - 3 100% Tony Buffin 8 - - - - 100% John Carter 8 - - - 3 100% Stuart Chambers 8 - 8 4 3 100% Coline McConville 8 5 8 4 - 100% Pete Redfern 8 - 7 4 3 96% Christopher Rogers 8 5 8 4 - 100% John Rogers 8 5 8 - - 100% Alan Williams 8 - - - - 100% Eight out of nine Directors had full attendance and the average Role of Non-executive Directors attendance for the Board and Committees combined was 99%.
Meetings are held between the Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors and in the absence of the Pete Redfern was unable to attend one Nominations Committee Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director, Christopher Rogers, meeting which was arranged at short notice.
is available as a sounding board to the Chairman and other Non-executive Directors and is also available to shareholders Division of responsibilities should they wish to raise any matters through a different channel.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are split and the No shareholders have expressed any concerns or asked to speak Board has approved a written statement of the division of key to the Senior Independent Director.
responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and a statement of the role of the Senior Independent Director.
These are reviewed annually and are available on the Groups 2.
Board composition Role of the Chairman As at 31 December 2018 the Board comprised six Non-executive The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
Directors and three Executive Directors.
The biographies for The Chairman, Stuart Chambers, was independent at appointment.
the Board are listed on pages 56 to 58.
The composition of the Board is kept under regular review by the Nominations Committee and the Committee considers that the Board has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity and knowledge to meet the needs of the business.
The Board considers on an annual basis whether each Non-executive Director remains independent in character and judgement in light of any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect each Directors judgement.
None of the circumstances set out in Code provision B.
1.1. apply and the Board is satisfied that all Directors remain independent.
61 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Appointment of Directors Time commitments Appointments of new Directors are made by the Board The Company allows Executive Directors to hold no more than on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
one external non-executive directorship at a listed entity.
TheChairman normally chairs the Nominations Committee and All Non-executive Directors are required to allocate sufficient time all other members are independent Non-executive Directors.
to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively and TheCommittees report can be found on page 90. the time commitment expected is set out in each Non-executive The Groups policy is to recruit people of the highest calibre, Directors letter of appointment.
The letters of appointment will with a breadth of skills and experience appropriate for the be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The Group supports the principles of the Davies Review The Board considers on an annual basis the time commitments and the Hampton Alexander Review and the need for a diverse of each Non-executive Director.
The Board is satisfied that all board, although it does not intend to commit to specific quotas.
Directors continue to have sufficient time available to fulfil their The Board diversity policy is summarised in the Nominations duties.
New external appointments in the year were given careful Committee Report.
consideration, taking into account the number and scale of each Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment and are Directors other commitments and the Board was satisfied that appointed for the period to the third Annual General Meeting the new external appointments would not impact the attendance following their election, at the end of which the appointment of Directors or their contribution to the Company.
may be renewed by mutual agreement.
It is the Boards policy that Non-executive Directors should generally serve for six years Induction and development two three-year terms and that any term beyond this should be The Group has an induction process for new Directors, which is subject to a rigorous review.
This review takes into account the facilitated by the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
This need for progressive refreshing of the Board, maintenance of includes a programme of meetings with senior management in a balance of skills and experience and the particular requirements both operations and central functions and visits to a range of of the Company at the time of the possible extension.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors receive an appropriate tailored induction on appointment and The tenure of each Director is shown below: then subsequent development and training as required, taking Board Tenure into account the need to update their skills and their knowledge At 31 December 2018 of the Companys business.
Tony Buffin 5 yrs 9 m The Board as a whole is also regularly provided with information on forthcoming legal and regulatory changes, corporate John Carter 5 yrs governance developments and briefings on the key risks facing Alan Williams 2 yrs the Company, including those identified in the Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 34 to 41.
In the year Ruth Anderson 7 yrs 2 m the Board attended training sessions on audit and accounting Stuart Chambers 1 yr 4 m developments and artificial intelligence and machine learning.
Coline McConville 3 yrs 11 m Ongoing development needs are considered when setting the Board forward planner and include deep-dives, topic briefings Pete Redfern 4 yrs 2 m and site visits.
Christopher Rogers 5 yrs 4 m Provision of information and support John Rogers 4 yrs 2 m All Directors have direct access to the Company Secretary and 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 General Counsel and may take independent professional advice Years at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties ifrequired.
John Carters tenure in the chart above reflects his tenure as CEO.
He has been a member of the Board for 17 years and 6 months.
62 Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Evaluation of Board performance facilitator to assist this process every three years.
An external Each year, the Board undertakes an evaluation of its evaluation was undertaken in 2018 facilitated by Lisa Thomas performance and the performance of its Committees and at Independent Board Evaluation following the process outlined individual Directors.
This provides an opportunity to identify below.
Neither Lisa Thomas nor Independent Board Evaluation efficiencies, maximise strengths and highlight areas for further has any other connection with the Group.
TheBoards policy is to engage an external Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 Programme design Observation Interviews Feedback Reporting The Chairman Board and Detailed interviews Discussion of draft Detailed reports presented to: and Independent Committee meetings with every Board conclusions with the Board on the findings, best Board Evaluation were observed member which were theChairman practice and a proposed action plan held meetings to by Independent structured around a the chairman of each Committee discuss and agree BoardEvaluation set agenda Discussion of on the performance of their the programme feedback on the Committee objectives and areas Interviews with other Chairman with the of particular focus key contributors Senior Independent the Senior Independent Director on to gain a broader Director the performance of the Chairman perspective of the the Chairman on the performance Boards work of individual Directors Overall the Boards feedback was positive.
The Board was Re-election of Directors thought to be functioning well and effectiveness has improved In light of the assessment that all Directors continue to perform over the last year with more rigour and structure in the and provide a valuable contribution to the Board and its boardroom.
Reaching alignment on strategy had been important Committees, all Directors will be eligible to submit themselves for and helpful in positioning the Board to move forward.
The key areas identified by this years external evaluation for extra focus and development during the 2019 financial year are set out below.
Accountability Focus area Actions being or to be taken in 2019 Financial and business reporting A review of the performance of the Groups businesses and the Review Board Deeper mapping of existing skills financial position of the Group is included in the Strategic Report and Committee against future business needs on pages 20 to 31.
The Board uses it to present a full assessment responsibilities, Planning for Non-executive of the Groups position and prospects, its business model, and its composition Directorrefreshment strategy for delivering that model.
The Directors responsibilities anddiversity for the financial statements are described on page 96. Review of Committee structures and responsibilities Going concern Build on the progress Increasing the proportion of Board After reviewing the Groups forecasts and risk assessments and made with strategy time focused on core brands, making other enquiries, the Board has formed the judgement stakeholders and culture at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a Succession planning Broadening of talent programmes to reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have include more diversity initiatives adequate resources to continue in operational existence for Board engagement Review of stakeholder the 12 months from the date of signing this Annual Report and with the business engagementprocesses Accounts.
For this reason the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Planning Board operational visits around updated strategic priorities In arriving at their opinion the Directors considered: The Groups cash flow forecasts and revenue projections Feedback confirmed that each Director brings considerable expertise and experience to Board discussions and the Board Reasonably possible changes in trading performance is satisfied that each one continues to contribute effectively to The committed facilities available to the Group Board debate and guide and challenge managements strategic and the covenants thereon plans and their implementation.
The Groups robust policy towards liquidity and cash flow management The Groups ability to successfully manage the principal risks and uncertainties outlined on pages 34 to 41 during periods of uncertain economic outlook and challenging  63 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Risk management and internal control In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has carried The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In the design of the of internal control and risk management, during the year and up system of internal control, consideration has been given to the until the date of approval of this Annual Report.
significant risks to the business, the probability of these risks manifesting themselves and the most cost-effective means Audit Committee and Auditors of controlling them.
The threat posed by those risks and any The Board has established an Audit Committee consisting of four perceived change in that threat is reviewed half yearly by both the independent Non-executive Directors.
Its key responsibilities and Executive Committee and the Board.
The system manages rather a description of its work in 2018 are contained in its report, which than eliminates risk and therefore can only provide reasonable is set out on pages 66 to 70. and not absolute assurance against material misstatement The Boards fair, balanced and understandable declaration orloss.
At the Board meeting during which the Groups results for The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control is the year were presented by the Chief Executive and the Chief delegated to Executive Directors and senior management, but Financial Officer, the Board also considered whether the Annual the Audit Committee reviews and discusses internal controls on Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, present a fair, a regular basis.
The system of internal controls is reviewed by balanced and understandable overview of the Group and its the Board in a process that accords with the Financial Reporting performance.
After: Council guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
hearing from the Executive Directors It is the responsibility of the Board to establish the risk framework receiving a report from the Chairman of the Audit Committee within which the Group operates.
The Board and the Executive on that Committees meeting to discuss the preparation and Committee review the risk register and risk appetite at least content of the year-end financial statements and the audit once each year.
Members of the Audit Committee also receive conducted upon them reports of Internal Audit reviews.
If appropriate these reports discussing the contents of the Annual Report and Accounts, include recommendations for improvements in controls or for the management of those risks.
Measures to integrate risk the Board concluded that the Annual Report and Accounts are management processes into the Groups operations, to extend fair, balanced and understandable and accordingly the Directors awareness of the importance of risk management and to ensure declaration to that effect can be found in the Statement of that recommended improvements are implemented are Directors Responsibilities on page 96. regularly reviewed and refreshed.
As part of its viability review, the outcome of which is set out on page 32, the Board considered the principal risks and uncertainties and mitigating factors set out on pages 34 to 41.
Annabelle Halton City Plumbing Supplies, St Albans 64 Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The Chairman is always available to the Groups shareholders 4.
Remuneration if they have any issues they wish to discuss and the Senior Independent Director is also available as a direct contact The Board has established a Remuneration Committee for investors and shareholders, if they wish.
During the year consisting of three independent Non-executive Directors and the the Chairman met with a number of shareholders to discuss Chairman of the Board.
Its responsibilities include setting the governance matters.
Companys remuneration policy, approving the remuneration of Executives and reviewing the performance against targets prior Annual General Meeting to determining the pay-outs on incentive arrangements.
Shareholders receive more than twenty working days notice The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors, other than of the Annual General Meeting AGM at which all Directors the Chairman, is determined by the Chairman and the Executive are available for questions and a short business presentation Directors.
The Remuneration Committee determines the takes place.
Each substantive issue considered at the AGM Chairmans fee.
No Director plays a part in the discussion is the subject of a separate resolution.
The numbers of proxy about his or her own remuneration.
votes for and against each resolution are announced at the The Committees key responsibilities and a description of its meeting and the final votes are subsequently published on the work in 2018 are contained in its report, which is set out on Companyswebsite.
There was strong support from shareholders for the majority of resolutions at last years meeting with over 90% of votes in favour.
However 18% of shareholders voted against the 5.
Relations with shareholders disapplication of pre-emption rights for an additional 5% of the issued capital.
The Board has noted the voting outcomes from The Company encourages two-way communication with last year and this year we are again proposing that the Company both its institutional and private investors and responds continues to be given authority for the disapplication of prepromptly to all enquiries received.
The Investor Relations team emption rights authority for up to 5% of the issued capital but has an ongoing programme of engagement with shareholders.
the authority allowing the disapplication for an additional 5% in The Board receives regular updates on the shareholder register connection with acquisitions and specified capital investments and the views of shareholders.
At least once each year the will not be sought.
Company reviews its strategy for engaging with shareholders to ensure that their needs are being met.
The Board also reviews The Governance Report has been approved by the Board of reports discussing governance matters and engages with Directors and is signed on its behalf by: governance bodies to contribute to the debate and development of good governance practices.
Stuart Chambers In 2018 the Executive Directors and Investor Relations team Chairman attended a large number of meetings.
The Group held two 25 February 2019 briefings on results and a Capital Markets Day attended by a large number of shareholders, equity analysts and debt holders.
Copies of the presentations are available on the Investor Relations section of the Groups corporate website.
