Governance Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholders, Membership I was delighted to welcome Richard Laing to the Board Sir Richard Jewson Chair in May 2018 and Alastair Hughes in February 2019.
Jim Prower, Susanne Given, Aubrey Adams, Richard Laing, Richard has spent 11 years as the Finance Director and Alastair Hughes more recently as the CEO at CDC Group plc and 15 years at fide La Rue plc.
He currently holds a number Key areas of focus for 2018 of non-executive appointments, including chairing The size, structure and composition of the Board: 3i Infrastructure plc and Perpectual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc.
Alastair has 30 years experience The appointment of two Non-Executive Directors to the Board: and in the real estate markets, gained at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc, and currently serves as a Non-Executive Director The proposal for re-election of the Directors and the election of on the board of Schroders Real Estate Investment Trust Richard Laing and Alastair Hughes as Non-Executive Directors and The British Land Company PLC.
Both appointments at the AGM in May 2019. bring a significant breadth of industry knowledge and experience and will be great assets to the Company.
Meeting attendance register Person Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended Mark Shaw retired from the Board on 1 February 2019.
Sir Richard Jewson 3 3 On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Mark for his valuable contribution to the Company over his five year Jim Prower 3 2 tenure and wish him every success in the future.
Mark Susanne Given 3 3 will remain Chairman of the Manager.
Mark Shaw 3 2 2019 will see the Nomination Committee focus on succession planning, and particularly with regard to a Aubrey Adams 3 3 future Chairman over the medium term, and ensuring Richard Laing 3 3 that the Board continues to have the right balance of Alastair Hughes joined the Board and became a member of the Nomination skills, experience and knowledge to carry out its duties Committee on 1 February 2019. independently.
Sir Richard Jewson, Chair of the Nomination Committee See Audit & Risk Committee Report, pages 90-93 See Management Engagement Committee Report, pages 94-97 See Nomination Committee Report, pages 86-87 https: tritaxbigbox.
co. uk about #corporate-governance 86 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Committees role is to review the size, structure and activities of the Company.
Following the advice of the Committee composition of the Board, including succession planning, and to and in line with the AIC Code, the Board will recommend the ensure that it has the right mix of skills, experience and knowledge election and re-election of each Director at the forthcoming AGM.
to enable the Company to fulfil its strategic objectives.
The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations for Directors are appointed for an initial period of two years.
It is the new appointments to the Board and for reviewing the performance Companys policy of tenure to review individual appointments after and terms of engagement for the existing Directors.
The Committee seven years of service to consider whether the Director remains operates within defined terms of reference which are available on independent and continues to fulfil his or her role.
However, in the Companys website or from the Company Secretary.
accordance with the principles of the AIC Code, we do not consider it necessary to mandatorily replace a Director after a predetermined New appointments period of tenure.
We are, however, mindful of the circumstances of The Nomination Committee evaluated the skills and experience each Director and implement succession planning accordingly.
considered necessary to complement the existing Board composition.
We identified the need to appoint a suitably experienced, independent Under the Articles of Association Articles of the Company, at Non-Executive Director to take over the chairmanship of the Audit & every AGM of the Company, one third of the Directors who are Risk Committee in light of Jim Prowers other commitments as well as subject to the requirement of retiring by rotation not including any a further independent Non-Executive Director to replace Mark Shaw Director who was appointed by the Board since the last AGM and is who, as Chairman of the Manager, was not considered independent.
standing for election will retire from office and may offer themselves for re-election.
However, notwithstanding the provisions of the In terms of the first role, it was essential that the successful candidate Articles, all the Directors will offer themselves for re-election at each was suitably qualified and had a strong background in finance AGM in accordance with the provisions of the AIC Code.
at a board level, particularly in a public company environment.
The second candidate needed both significant real estate sector When renewing current appointments, all Directors, except any new experience and public company experience.
We were clear that both Director being appointed, are able to vote at the AGM.
candidates had to be able to devote sufficient time to their positions and that we wanted the best candidate for the respective roles.
Board diversity and inclusion The Company does not have any employees.
In respect of appointments We instructed Korn Ferry who had successfully worked with us on to the Board, we consider that each candidate should be appointed the recruitment of Susanne Given and Aubrey Adams.
Korn Ferry on merit to make sure that the best candidate for the role is appointed has no other connection with the Company, apart from the provision every time.
We support diversity and inclusion at Board level and of non-executive recruitment services.
encourage candidates from all educational backgrounds and walks of life.
What is important to us is professional achievement and the Korn Ferry presented us a list of candidates who had expressed ability to be a successful director based on the individuals skill set an interest in the role.
We reviewed the list, identifying those and experience.
candidates who appeared to hold the correct blend of skills.
A series of interviews was arranged with the Board as well as Colin Godfrey, Qualifications are considered when necessary to ensure compliance James Dunlop and Henry Franklin of the Manager.
We considered with regulation such as in relation to appointments to the Audit & Risk the candidates skills and experience, as well as their ability to Committee.
We regularly review the Companys policy on diversity and devote enough time to the position.
Following our recommendation, we believe that the Board has a balance of skills, qualifications and the Board decided to appoint Richard Laing as a Non-Executive experience which are relevant to the Company.
As at the date of this Director of the Company and Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee report the Board consisted of five male and one female members.
We with effect from 16 May 2018 and Alastair Hughes with effect from support the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander and Parker 1 February 2019.
Both Directors will hold office until the Companys Reports and recognise the value and importance of diversity in the AGM on 15 May 2019 when they will be submitted for election by boardroom but we do not consider it appropriate, or in the interests of the Shareholders as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Both the Company and its Shareholders, to set prescriptive diversity targets Non-Executive Directors will sit on the Audit & Risk, Nomination and for the Board.
Sir Richard Jewson KCVO, JP Chair of the Nomination Committee Policy on tenure and succession planning 6 March 2019 We considered the ongoing independence of each of the Directors, their respective skills, experience and time commitment, as well as any other external appointments held by the Directors.
We believe that each Director has contributed a significant amount over a particularly active year which has seen the Company conduct an equity raise and prepare for another in early 2019, agree two additional debt facilities and extend the existing revolving credit facility and prepare for the acquisition of db symmetry which completed in February 2019, in addition to the ordinary course of Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 87
