Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholders, Meeting attendance register This year we have changed the membership of the Person Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended Audit & Risk Committee with my appointment on Richard Laing 3 3 15 May 2018 and that of Alastair Hughes on 1 February 2019.
I succeeded Jim Prower as the Chairman upon Jim Prower 5 5 appointment: however, Jim remains a member of the Audit Susanne Given 5 5 & Risk Committee.
It is the Committees role to undertake a robust review and assessment of the accuracy and Aubrey Adams 5 5 quality of the yearly audit and half yearly review of the 1.
Richard Laing, who was appointed to the Board on 16 May 2018, is considered Companys financial results, to challenge and consider the to possess recent and relevant financial experience for the purpose of the AIC biannual property valuations undertaken by the Valuer Code.
Richard is a Chartered Accountant with significant financial expertise and listed investment company experience.
He is also a member of the Management and evaluate the Companys risk management, financial Engagement and Nomination Committees.
reporting and financial management functions which are 2.
Jim Prower is a Chartered Accountant with significant financial experience, having held a number of Financial Director roles.
Jim serves as a member of the undertaken by the Manager and Administrator.
Management Engagement and Nomination Committees.
Susanne Given has previous experience of attending Audit & Risk Committee Richard Laing, Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee meetings in her role as COO of SuperGroup Plc.
Susanne chairs the Management Engagement Committee and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Aubrey Adams is a Chartered Accountant and was the pro-tem Chair of the 1 Audit & Risk Committee at The British Land Company PLC.
Aubrey is also a Richard Laing Chair member of the Management Engagement and Nomination Committees.
2 3 4 5 Jim Prower, Susanne Given, Aubrey Adams, Alastair Hughes 5.
Alastair Hughes, who joined the Board and became a member of the Audit & Risk Committee on 1 February 2019, is a member of the Audit & Risk Committees of The British Land Company PLC and Schroder Real Estate Key areas of focus for 2018 Investment Trust Limited.
Alastair is also a member of the Management Engagement and Nomination Committees.
Recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Sir Richard Jewson is not a member of the Audit & Risk Committee: however, Accounts for 2017, taken as whole, was fair, balanced he attends by invitation when required.
and understandable and that it provided the information Further details of each Directors experience can be found in the biography on necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys pages 82-83. position and performance, business model and strategy: Reviewed the Interim Report 2018 and recommended it to the Board for approval: Monitored the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewed any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: Reviewed the robustness of the Companys internal financial controls and reviewed the efficacy of the internal control and risk management systems used by the Company: Assessed the quality of the annual and interim property valuations prepared by the Companys independent Valuers and challenged the assumptions used by the Valuers in preparing the valuation: Reviewed and considered the basis of the Viability and Going Concern Statements made by the Directors: and Reviewed and monitored the Companys relationship with See The Board of Directors, pages 82-83 its Auditor.
See Viability Statement, page 68 See Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties, pages 60-67 For further information on Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, see Depository Statement, page 89 90 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Audit & Risk Committees role is to oversee the Companys the Groups future performance, liquidity and solvency as well as financial reporting process, including the risk management and any risks relating to specific investments or proposed investments internal financial controls in place within the Manager, the valuation and specific tenants or initiatives relating to specific assets.
To of the property portfolio, the Groups compliance with accepted facilitate this process the Manager produces financial reports, which accounting standards and other regulatory requirements as well as include the latest management accounts, a review and report on the activities of the Auditors.
the Companys financial forecast, a report on proposed and existing investment and asset management initiatives, substantiation of any Committee membership and terms of reference dividend payments and a general update on the financial health of We operate within defined terms of reference, which are available the Company.
on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference were reviewed and approved by The Committee reviewed the principal business risks of the the Board in March 2018.
Company on 1 August, 12 December 2018 and 27 February 2019.
The Companys principal risks are found on pages 61-67.
The membership of the Audit & Risk Committee has changed over the course of the year with my appointment as the Chair of the As the Companys AIFM, the Manager is subject to reporting and Committee on 16 May 2018 and Alastair Hughes on 1 February ongoing compliance under the AIFMD.
As part of this regulatory 2019.
All of the current Audit & Risk Committee members are process, Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP has been retained by the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company and not Company and is responsible for cash monitoring, asset verification connected to the Manager or the Auditor.
and oversight of the Company and the Manager.
Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP report quarterly to the Board and the Manager.
I am a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Please refer to page 89 for a description of Langham Hall UK and Wales and have extensive financial experience gained in my Depository LLPs role.
previous roles as the CEO and Finance Director of CDC Group plc and a number of other listed organisations.
Aubrey Adams is also The Manager also employs a Compliance Officer and Head of Risk a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and has chaired to assist the regulatory team with the discharge of the Managers an audit committee previously: Susanne Given has experience of obligations in accordance with the AIFMD.
being a member of an audit committee in a previous role.
Jim Prower, the former Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee, is a Chartered The Company does not have an internal audit function and, following Accountant and acted as Finance Director at Argent Group and an internal risk review, we do not consider it necessary for the several other listed companies.
Alastair Hughes is a member of Company to have one.
The Company is managed externally by the the audit committee of two other real estate companies.
All payments of Company funds are authorised by the biographies of the members can be found on pages 82-83 of this Manager in accordance with the duties delegated to it pursuant Annual Report.
to the terms of the IMA and in accordance with the provisions of the AIFMD.
The Manager instructs the Administrator to make the Meetings duly authorised payment and Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, We met five times during 2018, following the Companys corporate as part of its role as Depositary, reviews each material payment calendar, which ensures that the meetings are aligned to the in relation to the specific test areas as mentioned in the report on Companys financial reporting timetable.
We consider that the internal controls in place and the ensures that the meetings are of sufficient length to allow the function undertaken by Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP make it Committee to consider all important matters and the Committee unnecessary for the Company to employ an internal audit function.
is satisfied that it receives full information in a timely manner to In addition to this, the Administrator has its own internal audit allow it to fulfil its obligations.
These meetings are attended by the performed on an annual basis by KPMG, from which the Company Committee members, as well as representatives of the Manager, reviews any findings.
The 2018 audit did not raise any significant the Company Secretary and the Auditor, BDO LLP, and, on occasion, findings.
We also met with the Auditor without any representative of the Manager present.
The Committee also Financial reporting and significant judgements met with the Companys independent Valuer, CBRE, in January We monitor the integrity of the financial information published 2018, June 2018 and January 2019 as part of the interim and in the Interim Report and Annual Report and consider whether year-end audit process.
As the Committee Chair, I have had regular the Manager has made suitable and appropriate estimates and meetings with the Company Secretary and the Head of Finance of judgements in respect of areas which could have a material impact the Manager as did Jim Prower prior to my appointment, and the on the financial statements.
We seek support from the Auditor Committee regularly has discussions throughout the year outside of to assess these significant judgements.
We also consider the the formal Committee meetings.
processes undertaken by the Manager to ensure that the financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
Risk management and internal controls As part of each Board meeting and each Audit & Risk Committee A variety of financial information and reports were prepared by meeting, the Board reviews the financial position of the Company the Manager and provided to the Board and to the Audit & Risk and assesses any risks in relation to the Companys business model, Committee over the course of the year.
These included budgets, Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 91 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report periodic re-forecasting following acquisitions or corporate activity The Board has also considered the following items: and specific papers to assess the impact of transactions including: Operating lease contracts the issuance of further equity in April 2018 The Group has determined, based on an evaluation of the terms and conditions of the arrangements, that it retains all significant risks the proposed equity issue in February 2019 and rewards of ownership of its properties and so accounts for the the proposed acquisition of db symmetry, and leases as operating leases.
the US private placement of loan notes agreed in Valuation of interest rate derivatives December 2018.
The Group mitigates its exposure to interest rate risk by entering into interest rate hedging arrangements.
The Group accounts for We also regularly review the Companys ability to continue to pay a these instruments in accordance with IFRS 9 and makes additional progressive dividend.
This financial information was fully reviewed required disclosures under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures and debated both at Committee and Board level across a number of and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
This was of particular focus upon consideration of the db symmetry acquisition and the potential growth in earnings that the The valuations are provided by the relevant counterparties of the transaction allows the Company over the long term.
The Board has reviewed and approved these valuations.
The Manager and the Auditor update us on changes to accounting policies, legislation and best practice and areas of significant Management have reviewed the requirements of IFRS 9 and judgement by the Manager.
They pay particular attention to IFRS 15, which were effective from 1 January 2018.
The impact transactions which they deem important due to size or complexity.
on the Group and Company is not considered material.
Further The main areas where a significant judgement is required information can be found on page 122. include the assessment over fair values of investment property and developments as well as interest rate derivatives, business Fair, balanced and understandable financial statements combinations and operating lease contracts.
The production and audit of the Companys Annual Report is a comprehensive process, requiring input from a number of Business combinations contributors.
To reach a conclusion on whether the Companys At the time of acquiring a subsidiary that owns investment properties, Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, as required the Group considers whether each acquisition represents the under the AIC Code, the Board has requested that the Audit & Risk acquisition of a business or the acquisition of an asset.
Where an Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual Report acquisition is judged not to be the acquisition of a business, it is not fulfils these requirements.
In outlining our advice, we as the Audit & treated as a business combination.
Of the eight acquisitions in the Risk Committee have considered the following: year, all were considered to be property acquisitions.
the comprehensive documentation that outlines the controls Valuation of property portfolio in place for the production of the Annual Report, including the The property portfolio is independently valued by CBRE biannually.
verification processes to confirm the factual content: Following production of the draft valuation by CBRE, the Manager meets with CBRE to discuss and challenge various elements of the the detailed reviews undertaken at various stages of the property valuation, if necessary.
The Auditor, in fulfilling its function production process by the Manager, Administrator, Joint Financial as independent auditor to the Company, also meets with CBRE to Adviser, Auditor and the Audit & Risk Committee, which are discuss, and where necessary, challenges the property valuations.
intended to ensure consistency and overall balance: The Board receives a copy of the property valuation for the portfolio controls enforced by the Manager, Administrator and other thirdonce it has been tested by the Manager and after the Auditor has party service providers, to ensure complete and accurate financial met with the Valuer.
The performance of CBRE is assessed on an records and security of the Companys assets: annual basis by the Management Engagement Committee in its report on pages 94-97. the satisfactory ISAE 3402 control report produced by the Administrator for the year ended 31 December 2018, which has The Group had property assets valued at 3.42 billion at been reviewed and reported upon by the Administrators external 31 December 2018, as detailed on the Group Statement of Financial auditor, to verify the effectiveness of the Administrators internal Position.
As explained in note 15 to the financial statements, CBRE controls: and independently valued the properties in accordance with IAS 40: a letter provided by the Administrator that there have been no Investment Property.
We have reviewed the assumptions underlying changes to its control environment since 31 December 2018 the property valuations and discussed these with the Manager and and that all internal controls in place at the time of the last review CBRE, and have concluded that the valuation is appropriate.
The Board also meets with the Valuer to discuss and challenge the valuation and to ensure it was conducted properly, independently and could be fully supported.
92 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 See Management Engagement Committee Report, pages 94-97 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION As a result of the work performed, we have concluded and views over significant risk areas and why they consider these to reported to the Board that the Annual Report for the year ended be risk areas.
The Audit & Risk Committee, where appropriate, 31 December 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and continue to challenge and seek comfort from the Auditor over understandable and provides the information necessary for those areas which drive audit quality.
The timescale for the delivery Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business of the audit or review is also set at this meeting.
We meet with the model and strategy.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are set Auditor again just prior to the conclusion of the review or audit to out in the Chairmans Governance Overview on pages 72-74. consider, challenge and evaluate findings in depth.
As an example, we questioned the Auditor in depth on the process it adopted to External Auditor challenge the 2018 property valuation to ensure it was effective.
In line with the European Union Audit Reform Legislation which Neither the audit nor the interim review uncovered any significant came into effect in 2016, and applied by the Company for years findings.
ended 31 December 2017 onwards, as the Companys Auditor, BDO LLP BDO were unable to continue to provide the Company with We continue to believe that, in some circumstances, the external audit services along with non-audit services including corporate Auditors understanding of the Companys business can be finance services and tax advisory work.
The position of Auditor beneficial in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of advisory to the Company was re-tendered in April 2017.
For this reason we continue to engage BDO as reporting rigorous process the Audit & Risk Committee recommended that accountants on the Companys secondary issues of equity capital BDO be re-appointed.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement in the normal course of the Companys business.
Following the audit is five years, covering the years ended 31 December 2014 to tender, PwC LLP were appointed to assist with financial and tax 31 December 2018. due diligence on corporate acquisitions and to provide specific tax compliance advice.
BDO have agreed, subject to no significant changes of scope, a fixed fee for this audit of the Annual Report and review of the Interim The Company paid 90,000 in fees to the Auditor for non-audit Report up to and including 2019. services during 2018.
These fees are set out in the table below.
Richard Levy, the lead Audit Partner for the past five years, is due Work undertaken Rationale for using the external auditor Fee for rotation following the 2018 year-end audit.
It is intended that Reporting accountant Detailed knowledge and 90,000 Geraint Jones, whom we met as part of the audit tender process, on the Companys understanding of the business takes over the position as Lead Audit Partner.
The Committee has secondary offerings and the requirements of the met with the key members of the Audit team over the course of the and public debt exercise, having acted as reporting year and BDO have formally confirmed its independence as part of issuance accountant on previous equity fundraisings for the Company.
Low the reporting process as well as during the re-tender process.
We risk of self-interest and self-review consider that the Audit team assigned to the Company by BDO has threat, as the work is not used in the a good understanding of the Companys business which enables audit of the financial statements.
it to produce a detailed, high-quality, in-depth audit and permits the team to scrutinise and challenge the Companys financial The ratio of audit to non-audit services received in the year was procedures and significant judgements.
internal quality control procedures and found them to be sufficient.
The Committee is satisfied that the Audit process is transparent and Richard Laing Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee of good quality.
6 March 2019 Please refer to note 8 in the financial statements for a summary of fees paid to the Auditor.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the CMAs statutory audit services order for the financial year under review.
Audit process We meet with the Auditor and the Manager before the preparation of each of the interim and annual results begins, to plan and discuss the scope of the audit or review as appropriate, and challenge where necessary to ensure its rigour.
At these meetings the Auditors prepare a detailed audit or review plan which is discussed and questioned by us and the Manager to ensure that all areas of the business are appropriately reviewed and that the materiality thresholds are set at the appropriate level which varies depending on the matter in question.
We also discuss with the Auditor their See Chairmans Governance Overview, pages 72-74 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 93
