STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Leadership The Board is responsible to Shareholders, Customers and other stakeholders for promoting the long-term sustainable success of the Company and generating shareholder value.
Good governance is fundamental to the long-term success of the Company.
The Board and the Manager work together to ensure the highest standards of governance are maintained by the Company and are central to every Board decision.
The Board We have not established a Remuneration Committee as the The Board currently consists of six Non-Executive Directors, all Board has no Executive Directors and the Company has no other independent of the Manager.
This follows the appointments of employees.
The Board as a whole is responsible for reviewing the Richard Laing in May 2018 and Alastair Hughes in February 2019, scale and structure of the Directors remuneration.
Details of the and the retirement of Mark Shaw in February 2019.
Each Director, Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2018 are other than Richard Laing and Alastair Hughes, will resign and stand included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
for re-election by Shareholders at the Companys May 2019 AGM in accordance with the requirements of the AIC Code.
Richard Laing We consider the culture and ethos of the Company to be integral and Alastair Hughes will be submitting themselves for election at the to the Companys success.
Despite the Company being externally scheduled May 2019 AGM, as this will be the first AGM since their managed, we believe that the culture within the Manager is respective appointments.
aligned with the Companys purpose, values and strategy and it is complementary to the Company.
The Senior Independent The Board has determined the Companys Investment Objectives Director, Jim Prower, and I meet independently with members of the and Investment Policy and has overall responsibility for the Companys Manager regularly outside of Board meetings.
In addition, different activities, including reviewing investment activity, performance, representatives from the Manager attend Board meetings as and business conduct and strategy, whilst complying with the principles when requested and deliver bespoke training sessions to us.
Committees We believe that the Board is well balanced and possesses sufficient The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to its three breadth of skills, variety of backgrounds, relevant experience and formal Committees, the Nomination, Audit & Risk and Management knowledge to ensure it functions effectively and promotes the Engagement Committees, details of which are set out in the diagram long-term sustainable success of the Company, whilst generating overleaf.
The Company ensures that all of the Board Committees Shareholder value.
Biographical information on each Director is set have sufficient resources and skills to carry out their obligations.
These Committees are each chaired by a different Non-Executive The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for our Director and have their own terms of reference which can be found consideration and approval, and we have delegated the operational on the Companys website or copies are available on request from aspects of running the Company to the Manager.
The matters the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference are reviewed as reserved for our consideration include: necessary by the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to these Committees and each Committee Chairman reviewing and approving Board composition and powers, reports the outcome of the meetings to the Board.
including the appointment of Directors: approving and implementing the Companys strategy: We also establish further ad hoc operational committees to take operational responsibility on specific matters either following approving the budget, financial plans and annual and interim in principle approval from or with subsequent ratification by the financial reports: Board.
These operational committees ensure that key matters are approving the dividend policy: dealt with efficiently by the Director s and representatives of the reviewing property valuations and valuations of its interest rate Manager best qualified for the specific role.
derivatives: overseeing treasury functions and managing the Companys capital structure: reviewing and monitoring the Managers ongoing compliance with the Companys Investment Objectives and Investment Policy: overseeing the services provided by the Manager and, in conjunction with the Manager, the Companys principal service providers: and reviewing and approving all compliance and governance matters.
Matters reserved for Board consideration can be found at: https: www.
co. uk about-us #corporate-governance Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 77 Governance Leadership Our governance structure 1 Audit & Risk Committee 2 Nomination Committee 3 Management Engagement Committee Reviewing the integrity of the Group financial Reviewing the Board composition and Reviewing the Companys main suppliers statements and any significant financial assessing whether the balance of skills, including the Manager, the Broker, the Valuer reporting judgements.
experience, knowledge and independence is and the Registrar to ensure that the Company appropriate to enable the Board to operate is receiving a strong level of performance along Reviewing and monitoring the relationship effectively.
Managing succession planning and ensuring Overseeing re-tenders or new appointments.
Reviewing the Managers internal controls and that the Directors receive necessary training.
controls embedded in Link Asset Services as See pages 94-97 for further information the Companys Administrator.
See pages 86-87 for further information Overseeing the Companys risk management process.
Advising the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts provide a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Companys performance, position and strategy.
2 Considering and reviewing the Companys Nomination Viability Statement and Going Concern Committee Statement.
See pages 90-93 for further information 1 3 Audit & Risk Management Committee Engagement Committee The Board Responsible for maintaining consistent and progressive Shareholder returns 4 6 Investment Company Committee Secretariat and Compliance 5 Manager 4 Investment Committee 5 Manager 6 Company Secretariat and Compliance Reviewing and recommending investments Day-to-day running of the Company including Overseeing the Companys governance and divestments.
The Investment Committee is making the final decisions in respect of structure and managing the Companys Chaired by Colin Godfrey, as the Fund Manager investments and divestments, financial regulatory compliance.
of the Company, and consists of various management, asset management and Investor The Company Secretariat also administers the members of the Manager.
The Company Secretariat Colin Godfrey, as the Fund Manager of the function was re-tendered in 2018: further Company, oversees the Managers relationship information can be found on page 94-97 with the Company.
See pages 50-51 for further information.
The Manager was amended and restated on 11 September 2017 The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the Company to to clarify the Managers responsibility to make final investment the Manager pursuant to the terms of the Investment Management and divestment decisions in accordance with ESMA guidance.
Further details of the delegated matters can be found The Management Engagement Committee Report discusses how on the Companys website.
The Investment Management Agreement the Companys relationship with the Manager is regulated.
78 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018
