GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT WE PROACTIVELY MANAGE RISKS At Tullow, risk management is an integral part of running the business and is fundamental to helping us achieve our strategic objectives.
Our ability to identify, assess and successfully manage current and emerging risks is criticalin securing the success of our business and protecting long-term shareholder value.
Risk governance Detailed discussions take place between all levels A culture of ethical behaviour aligned to our revised of the organisation to agree the most effective ways Values and a robust Integrated Management to mitigate the risks and to ensure there is a clear System IMS is core to how we run our business understanding of any compound and cumulative and how we approach corporate governance and risks and where risks are interdependent requiring risk management.
Robust risk, assurance and cross-business or cross-functional collaboration.
performance management processes, incentivised by balanced key performance indicators KPIs Risk management process inour Group scorecard, enable us to manage The Group works in collaboration with the business to theopportunities and risks in all our activities undertake a bottom-up identification and assessment andrespond to the concerns of our stakeholders.
of the enterprise risks faced by Tullow.
Enterprise risks can be a single risk, or aset of aggregated The tone for risk management at Tullow is set by business risks which, taken together, are significant the Board, which worked with the Executive Team for theGroup.
This regular bottom-up process is anumber of times during the year to identify and supported by an annual top-down assessment that assess its principal and enterprise risks.
The Board enables adequate risk information flow from the has also set risk appetites for the principal risk Business Units to Group Functions, Executives categories and reviewed the Executive Teams risk andthe Board, and from the Board down to the strategies to mitigate them.
As part of that process, Business Units.
the Board identified which risks Tullow should not tolerate, which should be mitigated to an acceptable level and which should be accepted in order to deliver our business strategy.
The risk appetites are in the process of being embedded into the Tullow IMS to CATEGORIES OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ensure they are available to the whole organisation and can be used in development of all IMS policies and standards andin business decision making.
STRATEGY Risks continue to be managed or monitored by SeniorManagement, with oversight by the Executive Team.
The Board discusses selected principal risks CONDUCT STAKEHOLDER and those risks that the Executive Team brings to its attention.
The Board delegated the responsibility for oversight of the risk management process to the Audit Committee, which is supported by Group Internal Audit.
PRINCIPAL RISK CATEGORIES The Executive Team, Group Functional Heads EHS OR andBusiness Delivery Teams are responsible ORGANISATION SECURITY andaccountable for managing and monitoring therisks that fall under their remit.
As illustrated overleaf, the organisation structure has a clear distinction between the corporate functions, which define risk management requirements in the IMS FINANCIAL CYBER for their functional areas, and the business teams which are accountable for effective implementation of those requirements.
com 51 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK HIERARCHY Board Executive Team - Oversees identification, assessment and - Identifies and assesses enterprise risks and response to principal risks annual planning principal risks - Determines risk appetite - Monitors effectiveness of risk reduction actions for those risks Principal - Monitors effectiveness of risk management process delegated to Audit Committee risks - Holds quarterly dedicated meetings with focus on monitoring of all risks with a deep dive into selected key risks - Decides which enterprise risks, in addition to principal risks, require the Board toperiodically review in detail Enterprise risks Leadership Heads of Group Functions - BU managers identify and assess - Set standards for managing risks in their respective business delivery their respective functional areas risks at least annually - Review business risks to seek Business Corporate - Corporate Function Heads identify assurance that key business risks delivery risks risks and assess their respective corporate have been identified and assessed risks at least annually - Ensure effective risk mitigation - Monitor effectiveness of risk actions are planned response quarterly Risk management process continued and mitigants.
They also help them to consider what The Board now undertakes a semi-annual review and assessment additional risk reduction actions may be needed to reduce ofthe enterprise risks facing the Company, including those theresidual risk level to the risk appetite level setby the principal risks that would threaten our business strategy, Board.
Tullow recognises that risk cannot be completely operating model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
eliminated and that there arecertain risks the Board and or These risks are grouped under the seven principal risk Executive Team willdecide are acceptable to enable the categories see previous page along with risk appetites pursuit ofparticular business opportunities.
These decisions bycategory, both determined by theBoard.
The Audit are informed by a risk assessment and are made at an Committee provides oversight of the risk assurance appropriate authority level and reflect the Groups defined processthroughout the year.
Enterprise risks are managed by risk owners, who are Integrated assurance process members of the Executive Team, Heads of Group Functions Planned integrated assurance activities are determined on orHeads of Business Units.
For each ofthe categories of anannual basis, coordinated between the Business Units, principal risks, a dedicated member of the Executive Team Group Functions and Internal Audit to ensure that key risks hasownership and accountability for ensuring the risk is facing the Company have an associated assurance activity.
managed to the risk appetite levels set by the Board.
Anannual integrated assurance planning workshop is run The risk registers, which are maintained at each layer of the byInternal Audit and attended by members of the Executive organisation, continue to be the core component of our risk Team and Heads of Group Functions and Business Units who management process.
Eachof the key risks in the risk collectively review and ensure the right level of assurance registers has an assigned risk owner who reviews them, at across the Group.
Responsibility for assurance activities is least on a quarterly basis, as part of the performance review clearly articulated at each of the four organisational tiers process.
Additionally, the Executive Team reviews and seechart on page 53.
Our risk management and assurance discusses principal risks on a quarterly basis and assures processes provide the Board with reasonable, but not absolute, that mitigations are being effectively executed by the assurance that the key risks we face as a Company are being accountable person within the time frames agreed.
effectively mitigated and that our assets and reputation areprotected.
The risk registers identify all key risks which are assessed atboth an inherent and residual level, against two scales: Tullow risk profile a their likelihood: and b theirpotential consequence to the In 2018, we managed to significantly reduce our financial Group.
The assessment of consequences includes safety, andoperational risk profile.
We have further strengthened reputation, financial, legal and regulatory impacts.
ourbalance sheet, reducing the gearing ratio from 2.6x to These risk assessments are designed to ensure a thorough 1.9x.
Tomake that improvement sustainable, we have also assessment of the risks as well as the associated controls maintained focus on our capital and operational cost discipline, 52 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts which contributed to our improved cash flows, revenue, adjusted project offers.
While the start-up of the Early Oil Pilot Scheme EBITDAX, asset value, debt capacity and liquidity.
Wehave created some tensions and community unrest as well as continued to receive insurance pay-outs from Business safety and security risks, we are working very closely with the Interruption and Hull & Machinery insurance claims relating government and local communities to minimise risks both to tothe Jubilee turret failure.
Having successfully delivered people and the project.
theJubilee Turret Remediation Project, and having protected The relatively low and volatile oil price has also had a global our balance sheet through systematic hedging and insurance impact on host countries oil and related tax revenues and we programmes, wecan now concentrate on financing our strategic observed emerging pressures on host governments to address growth objectives, reducing the risk of inadequate funding.
their budget deficits with more aggressive and challenging tax In managing operational risk we have focused on securing assessments.
However, our key production sharing contracts maximum value from current operations leading to a decision give us protection against additional claims as all of them to exit from our mature assets that offer low returns and contain stabilisation provisions, which we can invoke in order exploration assets with limited or no prospectivity.
Regular to protect the returns on our shareholders investments.
assessments ensure that we have a portfolio that enables The geographical spread of our operations and nature of growth opportunities over the short to medium and long term.
theindustry we work in expose us toawide range of health, In Ghana, the Jubilee Turret Remediation Project has been safety, security and environmental risks and we aim to reduce successful despite unprecedented challenges.
Wehave also the riskof major incidents in those areas to as low as redefined the operating model with MODEC, operator of our practically possible.
Fast-evolving cyber risk also poses a two FPSOs, to provide clearer accountabilities, and carried significant threat to our operations and assets but we have a outan Operational and Business Excellence review to drive robust response system in place.
This cannot prevent attacks improved efficiency of our operations in Ghana.
We also on our systems and infrastructure entirely but can reduce the continued our strong focus on operational and asset integrity risk of a major cyber event and its impact to a minimum.
Other emerging risks such as the risk of the impact of climate As in previous years, the volatile oil price added to uncertainty change and related legislation and taxes on the oil and gas and we maintain a systematic hedging programme to protect market, Brexit, GDPR or inclusion and diversity have also our Group revenue while retaining substantial access to the been considered and are being monitored: however, these potential upside.
We closely observe the emerging supply have been assessed as being low in the short to medium term.
demand shifts to alternative energy sources: we also monitor different opinions regarding the extent of the impact of that The enterprise risks that the Board considered tohave a shift to the oil and gas industry.
Oil price movements also significant enough impact during our planning horizon have affect the value that our large development projects in Kenya been identified and categorised under one of the seven principal and Uganda are expected to deliver.
We have progressed the risk categories.
We provide a summary of those risks below, farm-down of our Uganda assets: however, the transaction is but we are aware that other risks could emerge in the future still pending Government of Uganda approval.
Once completed, and if these risks are not successfully managed our cash flow, the transaction will result in a reduction in exposure to major operating results, financial position, business strategy and capex spend in Uganda.
The Kenya South Lokichar project is reputation could be materially adversely affected.
However, also on target with FID planned for later in 2019, and we have wedo have a robust risk management process in place to a better understanding of the risks and opportunities that the ensure such risks are identified and dealt with effectively.
TULLOW ASSURANCE MODEL INDEPENDENT Internal Audit Board ASSURANCE Audit Committee Sub-Committees TIER 3 RISK Heads of Group functions Executive Team OVERSIGHT TIER 2 OWNERSHIP BU embedded functional leads BDT EVP AND TIER 1 BU manager MANAGEMENT Group function heads OF RISK Site-based functional staff BU leadership TIER 0 BU functional leads www.
com 53 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED STRATEGY RISK Link to KPI scorecard business development and growth Risk of lack of balance between short and long-term investments, insufficient diversification of assets, the inability to manage the portfolio or grow the business during significant changes to market and industry conditions including evolving regulation and taxes related to climate change or caused by shift in oil demand resulting from substitution of hydrocarbons with renewable energy sources.
Risk of inability to make new significant oil discoveries and replenish exploration and subsurface portfolio Executive owner: Ian Cloke Tullow has exciting high-impact exploration prospects and keeps refreshing and replenishing its exploration portfolio in Africa and South America.
These opportunities may not be successful due to a lack of maturity of oil industries in new countries we enter or due to less well developed relationships with key stakeholders.
Also, due to the nature of the exploration risk, Tullows exploration programme may not make the next significant oil discovery, inhibiting its growth and resulting in exploration write-offs.
By taking this risk Tullow expects that over time the exploration programme should result in a significant success, which would be rewarding to shareholders.
Potential causes Potential impact Risk mitigation and assurance 2018 outcomes and ongoing actions - Exploration drilling is based - Failure to access new acreage.
- High-grading of - The Cormorant-1 wildcat in on seismic data, which can explorationportfolio.
only approximate geological cost was mitigated by a farmout - Disciplined capital - Inability to grow the business.
structures and their and excellent execution.
- Geophysical Operations were - Risk-sharing with Joint - Oil industry may lack maturity conducted safely and tobudget Venture Partners.
in new countries where Tullow in Africa and SouthAmerica.
invests, or relationships with - Risk sharing was actioned key stakeholders may be less inSuriname, Cte dIvoire and well developed.
- New acreage was added in Cte dIvoire, Suriname and theComoros.
Risk of failure to deliver commercially attractive and timely Kenya development Executive owner: Mark MacFarlane Tullow has progressed the Project past the select define stage that precedes the Final Investment Decision FID.
The Early Oil Pilot Scheme and the appraisal programme have significantly reduced the risk to the Project in subsurface and non-technical areas.
However, several uncertainties still remain which, if not addressed, may result in the Project being less economically attractive in a sustained low oil price market.
Potential causes Potential impact Risk mitigation and assurance 2018 outcomes and ongoing actions - Oil price may be lower than - Development of the Project - Fully operational Early Oil - Phase 1 of upstream and required for FID.
Pilot Scheme has sufficiently midstream FEEDs completed, defined reservoir performance with Phase 2 FEEDs due - Reservoir complexity may - Capex Opex may be higher and effectiveness of operations.
impact planned production than anticipated.
- Stage gate reviews and capital - ESIAs to be submitted to the - EHS security risks.
- Access to land and delivery of - Unplanned shut-downs infrastructure may be delayed - Focused and significant - Plan agreed with Government ofoperations.
due to lack of national or community, National of Kenya for their delivery - Erosion of value.
and County Government of commercial framework - National and international engagement.
agreements, upstream and - Changes to legislation reputational harm.
midstream land titles and and regulations leading to - Environmental and Social water supply.
Risk of failure to deliver commercially attractive and timely Uganda Development Executive owner: Mark MacFarlane Tullow has reached an agreement with JV Partners to farm down its interest in Uganda and the transaction is pending Government of Uganda approval and agreement on tax treatment of the transaction.
The Uganda Project provides an opportunity to contribute significant cash flow to Tullow: however, prolonged discussions between JV Partners, Government of Uganda and other key stakeholders may cause the transaction tobe further delayed and the Project to stall reducing the anticipated value and cash contribution of the Project.
Potential causes Potential impact Risk mitigation and assurance 2018 outcomes and ongoing actions - Misaligned expectations - Completion of the farm-down - Ongoing engagements with the - Partner workshops to between Tullow, Government transaction and development Government to reach alignment reach alignment on key FID and key stakeholders.
of the Project may get on Capital Gains Tax.
- Lack of funding for - Project being driven by a - Defined transition plan in infrastructure development.
- Capex may be higher than Supermajor, for which Uganda place to re-align roles of JV planned.
- National and international - JV Partner collaboration to - FID Management Committee reputational harm.
define appropriate upstream to be established comprising and midstream commercial Government of Uganda and - Loss of licence to operate.
Joint Venture personnel, to oversee pathway to FID.
- Regular joint project reviews to monitor project progress.
54 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts STAKEHOLDER RISK Link to KPI scorecard safe, sustainable and efficient operations, business development and growth Risk of loss or damage to relationships with host governments, JV Partners, investors or other stakeholders, jeopardising our ability to conductbusiness.
Risk of disruption to business due to political regulatory influence in Ghana Executive owner: Gary Thompson Tullow invested material amounts of capital in Jubilee and TEN assets in Ghana and continues to invest in the ongoing operations and new growth.
The value of those investments may be eroded by the fiscal interventions by the Government or changes in regulatory environment.
Potential causes Potential impact Risk mitigation and assurance 2018 outcomes and ongoing actions - Increase in fiscal asks by the - Regulatory and tax change - Stabilisation clauses in all - Proactive stakeholder Government amidst reduced affect profitability and lead Petroleum Agreements.
engagement and contribution of oil revenue.
- Non-technical risk standard - Not meeting expectations of - Significant fines and penalties sets minimum stakeholder - Joint working group national content localisation leading to reputational harm.
established with key by the Government.
- Disputes with Government - Engagement with Petroleum - Changes to Ghanas of Ghana leading to civil or Commission to align on - Regular engagement with legislation and oil and gas criminal prosecution.
localisation and local Government on new oil regulation post award of contentexpectations.
Risk of disruption to business due to community and political influence in Kenya Executive owner: Mark MacFarlane Kenya development, as an onshore project, attracts greater economic and social interest from local communities and county governments.
Expectations from stakeholders may continue to grow, which may lead to development delays or operational disruption if expectations are not met.
Potential causes Potential impact Risk mitigation and assurance 2018 outcomes and ongoing actions - Increasing activism due - Key development decisions - Community Outreach - Completion of IFC compliant to lack of community delayed.
ESIA s and implementation understanding of the projects of Environmental and Social - Operational disruption and - Local Content and Capacity social and economic impact.
- Misalignment between - Lessons from Early Oil Pilot - Reputational harm.
- Turkana Grievance Government and counties.
Scheme incorporated into full Management Committee and - Loss of licence to operate.
- Legacy community Inter-Ministerial Management marginalisation issues.
Committee established - Agreement on strategic andoperational.
- Focused communications strategy operational to ensure - Dedicated team to ensure stakeholders are informed the Tullow Value of Shared about the project and Prosperity is fully integrated itsbenefits.
EHS OR SECURITY RISK Link to KPI scorecard safe, sustainable and efficient operations Risk of any incident resulting in fatalities and or extensive damage to facilities, the environment, or communities in which Tullow operates.
Risk of major process safety or EHS failure in Ghana Executive owner: Gary Thompson Given Tullows offshore Jubilee and TEN operatorship, this risk, due to its nature, cannot be entirely eliminated or transferred.
However, its likelihood has been reduced to as low as reasonably possible ALARP and major steps are undertaken to ensure Tullow maintains an excellent EHS track record.
Potential causes Potential impact Risk mitigation and assurance 2018 outcomes and ongoing actions - Inadequate maintenance of - Fatalities, serious - Independently verified safety - Jubilee Safety Case reissued.
safety-critical equipment on environmental or asset cases to demonstrate risks - Jubilee FPSO shut down for board Jubilee TEN FPSOs.
- Ineffective EHS procedures, - Significant financial loss, - Asset and well integrity - Planning for TEN FPSO 2019 competence of personnel or operational disruption and maintenance with regular shut down for maintenance lack of training.
assurance over FPSO systems and inspections.
- Inadequate contractor - Comprehensive assurance over selection and quality - Comprehensive all-risk Computerised Maintenance assurance.
- Jubilee commenced a 10-month Asset Integrity Programme.
- Re-aligned responsibilities and accountabilities over FPSO operatorship with MODEC.
com 55 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED CYBER RISK Link to KPI scorecard safe, sustainable and efficient operations Risk of a serious cyber-attack, which could involve the loss of confidentiality, integrity and or availability of business information and or disruption to our operations and industrial control systems.
Risk of major cyber or information security incident Executive owner: Angus McCoss External cyber-attacks resulting in network compromise, network or Industrial Control System disruption and or internal theft loss of confidential information is an ongoing risk and continuously evolving.
Tullow takes a range of layered steps to keep ahead of the threat, centralising its security operations through an Advanced Security Operations Centre, delivery of an ongoing security programme and by working with specialist consultancies and government.
Potential causes Potential impact Risk mitigation and assurance 2018 outcomes and ongoing actions - External cyber-attack - Disruption to business.
- Advanced Security Operations - Joint Tullow MODEC Offshore resulting in network Centre in place and live threat Control Systems Cyber - Loss of intellectual property compromise or disruptive monitoring.
impact to Industrial Control - Advanced network security - Operational and offshore - Reputation damage to JV or Systems.
Cyber Security Standard Government relationship.
- Deliberate or accidental approved by Tullow and MODEC.
- Security awareness theft or loss of confidential programme.
- Tullow staff susceptibility to information.
- Assurance programme using specialist third-party providers.
FINANCIAL RISK Link to KPI scorecard strategic financing Risk of erosion of financial strength and value, through revenue deterioration and inadequate liquidity funding due to adverse oil price movements, poor capital and cost discipline and poor balance sheet management.
Insufficient liquidity and funding capacity Executive owner: Les Wood Tullow has reset its operations to be viable in a low oil price environment and currently operates at sufficient levels of liquidity and capital to fund its operations and budgeted growth plans.
However, the Company is still exposed to erosion of its balance sheet and revenues due to the oil price volatility and may be exposed to unexpected costs resulting from operational incidents.
Potential causes Potential impact Risk mitigation and assurance 2018 outcomes and ongoing actions - Oil price volatility due to - Reduced revenue, cash flows, - Multi-year oil hedge - 2018 year-end facility global supply demand EBITDA, asset value and debt programme with access to headroom and free cash imbalances reducing capacity.
upside, approved by the Board of$1billion: net debt of revenues and value of annually.
$3.1billion: net debt - Insufficient funds to support underlying assets.
- Comprehensive insurance - Unplanned outages in package including property - Approx.
60 per cent of 2019 hydrocarbon production.
damage, business oil entitlement hedged at interruption and well control anaverage floor price of - Significant damage or loss of incident risk.
asset beyond ordinary wear and tear.
56 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts ORGANISATION RISK Link to KPI scorecard organisation Risk of poor business performance or failing to deliver the Tullow long-term vision and strategy resulting in an unsustainable workforce lacking diversity and balance, ineffective operating structure, and or fragmented organisational culture.
Risk of failure to have a sustainable, balanced, diverse workforce and attractive employee proposition Executive owner: Claire Hawkings Tullows success depends on the quality of talent it can attract and retain, a strong ethically minded and performance-focused culture and clear organisation model, which enables the delivery of Tullows strategy.
Tullow may be unable to maintain or improve operational performance and pursue growth if the Company is unable to maintain, evolve and sustain its organisational capabilities.
Potential causes Potential impact Risk mitigation and assurance 2018 outcomes and ongoing actions - Tullow culture and Values not - Increased staff turnover.
- Succession planning, - Enhanced career and embedded in the organisation.
localisation and diversity personal development - Loss of core skills and objectives set and monitored.
plans not effectively - Regular engagement surveys.
- Smart and flexible working - Failure to deliver localisation implemented.
- Regular review of talent - Ineffective career and people development - Diversity targets approved, - Reputational harm.
- Salary review considering gender and equal pay.
CONDUCT RISK Link to KPI scorecard organisation Risk of a major breach of Tullow Values, Tullow Code of Ethical Conduct, petroleum agreements or major laws and regulations with a potential to seriously damage Tullows reputation or result in criminal prosecution, severe fines or material unexpected costs.
Risk of major breach of business conduct standards or non-compliance with major contracts or legal regulatory obligations Executive owner: Les Wood Tullow operates in high-risk geographies on the Transparency International Corruption Index map.
Tullow maintains high ethical standards across our business, without which the Company could be exposed to increased risk of non-compliance with bribery and corruption legislation and associated prosecutions and fines.
Tullow, due to the nature of its activities, is also exposed, albeit to a much lesser extent, to other compliance risks.
Potential causes Potential impact Risk mitigation and assurance 2018 outcomes and ongoing actions - Poor leadership behaviour - Unethical behaviours or - Code of Ethical Conduct and - Code of Ethical Conduct and lack of understanding of breach of anti-corruption adequate procedures in place.
ethics and compliance risks laws leading to prosecutions - Third-party due diligence - Tullow Values actively rolled inkey business areas.
out by the Executive Team.
- Organisation culture may not - Breach of a major contract - Annual certification by all staff - Recorded and investigated support speaking up.
with a host government of compliance with the Code 66speak up cases.
and JV Partners leading - Failure to adequately of Ethical Conduct.
- Continued local fraud to disputes, claims and respond to non-compliance - Confidential speak up line awareness training.
com 57 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed the prospects and the viability of the Group over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
TheBoard assesses the business over a number of time horizons for different reasons, including the following: i.
Annual Corporate Budget i. e. 2019. ii.
Five-year Corporate Business Plan CBP i. e. 20192023. iv.
Life-of-field plan a high-level view of each of the BDTs and produced to enable capital allocation to projects, tooptimise the portfolio of assets held by Tullow and to produce an internal view of the value of the Company.
The Board conducted the review for the purposes of the Viability Statement over a five-year period in line with the Corporate Business Plan.
This is greater than the three-year period previously reviewed.
Thefive-year period was selected for the followingreasons: i. the Group considers the Groups facility and free cash headroom, debt to equity mix, and other financial ratios, over a five-year period in the CBP: ii.
the current contractual maturity of the Groups RBL facility would be fully amortised by 2024: as such the five-year plan islargely aligned with Tullows funding cycle: and iii.
both East African projects will have achieved First Oil by 2022 which means the assessment period contains all material requiring capital investment which will in turn significantly enhance the Groups ability to generate freecash flow.
Based on these factors, the Board consider that a five-year assessment period appropriately reflects the underlying prospects and viability of the Group, and the period over which the principal risks are reviewed.
Notwithstanding this fact the Group will continue to monitor the business over all time horizons noted above.
In order to make an assessment of the Groups viability, the Board has made a detailed assessment of the Groups principal risks, and thepotential implications these risks would have on the Groups liquidity and its business model over the assessment period.
This assessment included, where appropriate, detailed cash flow analysis, and the Board also considered a number of reasonably plausible downside scenarios, and combinations thereof, together withassociated supporting analysis provided by theGroups finance team.
A summary of the key assumptions, aligned to the Groups principal risks, and reasonably plausible downside scenarios can be found below.
It should be noted that some assumptions cover multiple risks but have not been repeated to avoid unnecessary duplication.
Principal risks Base assumption Downside scenario Strategy risks - P50 mean production and capex profiles - 10 per cent reduction in production - Kenya and Uganda First Oil 2022 - Non-completion of East Africa farm-down activity - Completion of Uganda farm-down in the first half of 2019 Stakeholder risks - Inclusion of financial exposure of all known risks - Inclusion of financial exposure of all known risks assessed as probable of occurrence assessed as possible of occurrence EHS or security risks - n a - A loss of production event on Jubilee and timing impact of coverage by insurance Financial risks - Two-year forward curve, then $70 bbl oil price - $50 bbl oil price - Contractual debt maturity profile of RBL and - Repayment of convertible bonds at maturity 2021 2022 bonds i. e. no refinancing - Conversion of convertible bonds - Payment of $100 million dividend p. a.
For detailed information on risk mitigation, assurance and progress in 2018, refer to pages 56 and 57.
For the organisational, conduct and cyber Group risks, noreasonably plausible financial exposure has been modelled.
Under such downside scenarios the Board has considered mitigating factors which the Group already has in place, such as hedging and insurance, and additional mitigating actions that are available to the Group, such as active debt financing management, additional funding options, further rationalisation of our cost base, including cuts to discretionary capital expenditure and dividends, and portfolio management.
Based on the results of the analysis the Board of Directors has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period of theirassessment.
58 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Michelle Boit is the Senior Project Engineer and technical lead on the Early Oil Pilot Scheme EOPS in Kenya.
The project involves the transfer of stored crude oil from Turkana to Mombasa by road.
Once EOPS is fully operational the trucks will be transporting up to 2,000 bopd.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 60 Directors report 62 Stakeholder engagement 68 Audit Committee report 70 Nominations Committee report 77 EHS Committee report 80 Remuneration report 83 Other statutory information 102
