GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER On the following pages I provide an overview of AuditCommittee activities in 2018 in its key areas ofresponsibility.
In particular, this covered oversight ofTullows financial reports as well as assessing the effectiveness of the companys risk management and internal control processes.
I also outline key areas offinancial judgement and estimation, which were considered in Tullows accounts and the action taken by the Committee to ensure they fairly reflect Tullows financial position.
The Audit Committee is confident in In 2018 there have been further changes to the theCompanys commitment to a strong AuditCommittee composition.
Anne Drinkwater leftthe Tullow Board and the Audit Committee and control environment and risk management Iwould like to thank her for the great contribution strategy which supports our business model.
andinsight which she provided to the work of the Committee.
Tutu Agyare was appointed to the Audit Steve Lucas, Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee at the conclusion of the AGM.
As a result, the Committee now consists of three members and I am confident thatthe Committee continues to have a required competence and experience relevant to Tullows business and oil COMMITTEE MEMBERS Meetings attended andgas industry.
Steve Lucas 5 5 This year the Committees focus also included Tutu Agyare 2 4 accounting, reporting and disclosure implications ofnew accounting standards, especially IFRS 15 Jeremy Wilson 5 5 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, IFRS 9 Anne Drinkwater 1 1 Financial Instruments and IFRS 16 Lease Accounting, which resulted in material adjustments to Tullows Denotes Directors who were no longer members of the Committee as at 31 December 2018. balance sheet.
We have also initiated, overseen and completed a 2018 HIGHLIGHTS competitive bid process for external audit services, - Completion of the external audittender.
which resulted in a recommendation to the Board to replace Deloitte LLP with Ernst and Young LLP with - Review and approval of key financial reporting issues, effect from the 2020 financial year.
I describe the assumptions, judgements and accounting changes process in more detail in the report and I am glad particularly aroundvaluation of assets and provisions.
thatthis significant change will allow Tullow to stop - Review of the outcomes of the  applying transition rules regarding auditor rotation.
review ofInternal Audits scope and resources.
The Audit Committee continued also to oversee the - Review of financial controls .
risk management and internal control systems and we saw further improvement both to financial as well - Continued oversight over the supplier due diligence.
as compliance and operational controls and we are - Review of the work of Ethics and Compliance, including looking forward to further enhancements to our whistleblowing arrangements andthe Companys financial and other systems and processes in 2019. response to allegations ofmisconduct.
I am also happy to report that the Committee has - Review of the tax strategy and monitor progress made undergone an annual assessment of its effectiveness over the arrangements for tax compliance procedures.
and it was found to be functioning effectively throughout 2018.
- Review of the use of SAP and future plans for automation offinancial processes.
Steve Lucas - Review of the Committees terms of reference to reflect Chairman of the Audit Committee changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2018.
12 February 2019 70 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Governance Summary of responsibilities Steve Lucas has been Audit Committee Chairman The Committees detailed responsibilities are since May2012.
described in its terms of reference and include: He was finance director at National Grid plc from - monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements 2002 to 2010 thus meeting the requirement of of the Group, reviewing and reporting to the theUK Corporate Governance Code for the Board on significant financial reporting issues AuditCommittee to have at least one member and judgements including going concern and whohas recent and relevant financial experience.
viability assessments: The other members of the Audit Committee are Tutu Agyare and Jeremy Wilson.
Biographies of - review and, where necessary, challenge the theCommittee members are given on pages 60 consistency ofsignificant accounting policies, and 61.
Together, the members of the Committee and whether appropriate accounting standards demonstrate competence in the oil and gas have been used: industry, with Steve Lucas having significant prior - review the content of the Annual Report and experience in oil and gas companies, while other Accounts and advise the Board on whether it is Committee members also bringing a wider range fair, balanced and understandable and if it provides of industry, commercial and financial experience, the information necessary forshareholders to which is vital in supporting effective governance.
assess Tullows position, performance, business The Company Secretary serves as the secretary model and strategy: tothe Committee.
- monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Head of of the Companys internal financial controls and Finance, the Group Head of Internal Audit and internal control and riskmanagement systems: representatives of the external auditor are invited to attend each meeting of the Committee and - consider the level of assurance being provided participated in all of the meetings during 2018. on the risk management and internal controls TheChair of the Board and the CEO also attend systems and whether itis sufficient for the Board meetings of the Committee by invitation and to satisfy itself that they are operating effectively: werepresent at most of the meetings in 2018.
- review the adequacy of the whistleblowing Theexternal auditor and the Group Head of system, and the Companys procedures for Internal Audit have unrestricted access to the detecting and preventing fraud: Committee Chairman.
- review and assess the annual Internal Audit In 2018, the Audit Committee met on five occasions.
plan, its alignment with key risks of the business Meetings are scheduled to allow sufficient time and coordination with other assurance providers forfull discussion of key topics and to enable early and receive a report on theresults of the Internal identification and resolution of risks and issues.
Audit functions work on a periodic basis: Meetings are aligned with the Groups financial reporting calendar.
- oversee its relationship with the external auditorincluding assessing its independence The Committee reviewed and updated its terms and objectivity, review the annual audit plan ofreference during the year to reflect the changes toensure it is consistent with the scope of the introduced by the revised UK Governance Code audit engagement, and review the findings of 2018.
These are in line with best practice and also theaudit: reflect the requirements of the Companies Act, theFRCs 2016 Guidance on Audit Committees, - assess the qualifications, expertise and theFRCs 2014 Guidance on Risk Management, resources of theexternal auditor and the Internal Control and Related Financial and effectiveness of the audit process: and Business Reporting and the FRCs 2016 Ethical - oversee the system of Ethics and Compliance, Standards.
The Audit Committees terms of including its procedures to prevent bribery and reference can be accessed via the corporate corruption, and response to anysignificant website.
The Board approved the terms of instances of non-compliance.
com 71 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Key areas reviewed in 2018 ALLOCATION OF AUDIT COMMITTEE TIME % The Committee fully discharged its responsibilities during the year and the following describes the work completed by the AuditCommittee in 2018: Annual Report For the Audit Committee and the Board to be satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the final report, the following steps are taken: - collaborative approach taken by the Group, with support from the Executives and Group functions 40 20 28 12 I and direct input from the Board: - a central dedicated project team working closely with our external auditor: Financial results 40 Internal audit 20 - early engagement and planning, taking intoconsideration investors feedback, regulatory Risk and controls 28 changes and leading practice: Governance 12 - comprehensive guidance issued to key report contributors across the Group: - validation of data and information included in the report both internally and by the external auditor: - a series of key proof dates for comprehensive review across different levels in the Group that aim to ensure consistency and overall balance: and - Senior Management and Board review and sign-off.
Financial reporting The Committee monitors the integrity of the Financial Statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups .
As part of the financial reporting process the Committee kept under review ongoing and emerging financial reporting risks and judgements.
The Committee met in July 2018 to review half-year financial statements and in November 2018 at the financial reporting audit and planning phase to discuss an initial view of key financial reporting risks and judgements before the year-end process.
Finally, the Committee met for the full-year accounts approval in February 2019.
At each stage of the process the Committee considered the key risks identified as being significant to the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts as well as accounting policy changes and their most appropriate treatment and disclosure.
The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2018 accounts and how these were addressed are detailed overleaf.
Details on managements view of the overleaf key estimates and judgements can be found in the Group Accounting Policies on pages 126 and 127.
72 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Significant financial judgements and areas of estimation How the Committee addressed thesejudgements and areas of estimation Carrying value A detailed accounting paper was received by the Committee from management on the Groups exploration and ofintangible evaluation assets, with a separate paper for Kenya given its materiality.
The papers documented the managements assessment of indicators for impairment and, if required, showed calculations for the impairments.
The Committee exploration and reviewed these papers and challenged managements position, with particular focus on Kenya, at both the evaluation assets November and February Audit Committee meetings.
Furthermore, Committee members met and discussed the Groups reserves and resources with the Groups external reserves auditor, ERCE, at the December Board meeting to ascertain the hydrocarbon volumes audited by ERCE support the impairment assessment.
The Committee supported managements view that no impairment was required in respect of Kenya while the Committee concurred that exploration assets in Ghana, Mauritania, Namibia, Uganda and Zambia should be written off as proposed by management and ensured there was an adequate disclosure of this judgement in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Carrying value The Committee received and reviewed the papers prepared by management on the Groups oil price and discount ofproperty, plant rate assumptions, which are used in the assessment of the carrying value of PP&E.
At the November and February and equipment Audit Committee meetings these assumptions were challenged by the Committee compared to independent oil price forecasts.
The Committee also challenged the Companys calculation of impairment discount rates, with particular focus on the asset and exploration risk adjustments made by management to a peer group WACC.
At the November and February Audit Committee meetings the Audit Committee reviewed and challenged detailed papers on managements assessment of impairment triggers and resulting impairment tests for PP&E.
The Committee gave particular focus to TEN, given the materiality of historical impairments made to that asset.
The Committee also discussed the Groups reserves and resources with the Groups external reserves auditor, ERCE, at the December Board meeting to get comfort over managements view of the carrying value of PP&E.
The Committee concurred with the impairment and impairment reversals proposed by management and ensured there was an adequate disclosure of this judgement in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Recognition The Committee received and reviewed a detailed accounting paper from management on assessment of the ofassets held farm-down of Uganda assets and their classification as held for sale.
The assumption that the transaction would be forsale completed within 12 months was then challenged by the Committee at the November and February Audit Committee meetings giving consideration to the fact that assets have been held for sale for in excess of 12 months.
The Committee ensured that managements judgement aligned with the assumption used in the annual budget approved at the December Board meeting and verified there was an adequate disclosure of this judgement in the Annual Report andAccounts.
Going concern A detailed accounting paper and cash flow analysis was prepared by management and provided to the Committee, andviability which then reviewed and challenged the assumptions and judgements in the underlying going concern and Viability Statement forecast cash flows.
The Committee discussed with management the risks, sensitivities and mitigations identified by management to ensure the Company has sufficient headroom to continue as a going concern.
The Committee also discussed the five-year time horizon used by management for the Viability Statement.
The Committee concurred with managements assessment and ensured there was an adequate disclosure of this judgement in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Decommissioning A detailed paper was prepared by management detailing the Groups decommissioning provision assumptions costs making reference, where appropriate, to relevant operator estimates and market data.
At the February Audit Committee meeting the Committee challenged reasonableness of and got comfort around managements assessment of the changes to estimated decommissioning costs made during 2018.
Provisions for A detailed accounting paper was prepared by management on provisions for onerous contracts and reviewed by the onerous service Committee.
This included a summary of independent legal advice on such contracts where appropriate.
The Committee contracts regularly monitors the risk by receiving regular summaries of all open litigations and disputes as part of the Groups Quarterly Performance reporting.
The Committee then challenged managements position at the November and December Audit Committee meetings and also met with the Groups General Counsel during the July meeting and again in February at the full Board meeting.
Uncertain tax Detailed accounting papers on all tax and regulatory exposures were prepared by management for the Committees andregulatory review.
Where relevant, the papers included summaries of external legal or tax advice on particular tax claims and positions assessments received.
The Committee challenged management on the key judgements and estimates made including the likelihood of success and the value of the exposure which had been provided for.
The Committee concurred with managements assessment and ensured there was an adequate disclosure of this judgement in theAnnual Report and Accounts.
com 73 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED External auditor - In order to ensure the effectiveness of the external Making recommendations to the Board on the audit process, Deloitte LLP conducts an audit appointment or re-appointment of the Groups risk identification process at the start of the external auditor, overseeing the Boards relationship audit cycle.
This plan is presented to the Audit with the external auditor and, where appropriate, Committee for its review and approval and, for the selection of a new external auditor, and the 2018 audit, the key audit risks identified assessing the effectiveness of the external audit included carrying value of intangible exploration process is a key responsibility of the Audit Committee.
and evaluation assets, carrying value of property, plant and equipment, recognition of assets held for - The UK Corporate Governance Code states sale, going concern and viability, decommissioning thatthe Audit Committee should have primary costs and provisions for onerous service contracts.
responsibility for making a recommendation on These and other identified risks are reviewed the appointment, re-appointment or removal of through the year and reported at Audit Committee the external auditor.
On the basis of the review meetings where the Committee challenges ofexternal audit effectiveness described below, thework completed by the auditor and tests the Committee recommended to the Board managements assumptions and estimates thatit recommends to shareholders the inrelation to these risks.
The Committee also re-appointment of Deloitte as Tullows statutory seeks an assessment from management of the auditor at the 2019 AGM.
effectiveness of the audit process.
In addition, - The external auditor is required to rotate the aseparate questionnaire addressed to all audit partner responsible for the Group audit attendees of the Audit Committee and Senior every five years.
The current Deloitte lead audit Finance Managers is used to assess external partner, Mr Dean Cook, started his tenure in audit effectiveness.
As a result of these reviews, 2015 and his current rotation has ended with the Audit Committee considered the external theaudit of our 2018 accounts.
For the year audit process to be operating effectively.
2019, Mr Dean Cook will be succeeded by - The Committee closely monitors the level of audit MrAnthony Matthews.
and non-audit services provided by the external - The Groups external auditor is Deloitte LLP.
Non-audit services are TheAuditCommittee assessed the qualifications, normally limited to assignments that are closely expertise andresources, and independence of related to the annual audit or where the work is the external auditor aswell as the effectiveness of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the audit process.
This review covered all ofthe Group is necessary.
An internal Tullow aspects of the audit service provided by Deloitte LLP, standard for the engagement of the external including obtaining a report on the audit firms auditor to supply non-audit services is in place own internal quality control procedures and toformalise these arrangements.
It is reviewed consideration of theaudit firms annual biannually and has been revised in 2018.
Among transparency reports in line with theUK others, it requires Audit Committee approval Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit forall non-trivial categories of non-audit work.
Committee also approved the external audit Abreakdown of the fees paid in 2018 to the external terms of engagement andremuneration.
During auditor in respect of audit and non-audit work is 2018 the Committee held private meetings with included in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee - In addition to processes put in place to ensure Chairman also maintained regular contact with segregation of audit and non-audit roles, the audit partner throughout the year.
These DeloitteLLP is required, as part of the assurance meetings provide an opportunity for open dialogue process in relation to the audit, to confirm to the with the external auditor without management Committee that it has both the appropriate being present.
Matters discussed included the independence and the objectivity to allow it to auditors assessment of significant financial continue to serve the members of the Company.
risks and the performance of management in This confirmation is received every six months addressing these risks, the auditors opinion and no matters of concern were identified by ofmanagements role in fulfilling obligations theCommittee.
forthe maintenance of internal controls, the transparency and responsiveness of interactions External auditor rotation with management, confirmation that no restrictions The audit contract was last tendered in 2004. have been placed on it by management, Under the EU Audit Regulation and the Companies maintaining the independence of the audit, and Act, Tullow elected to apply the transitional rules how it has exercised professional challenge.
with an annual review of this approach.
According to those rules, the Company was required to run a competitive tender process in respect of auditor appointment no later than 31 December 2024.
74 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts However, in 2018 the Audit Committee initiated a strategy.
The risk appetites are to be embedded in formal tender process for the 2020 audit.
The Audit the Tullow IMS to ensure they arevisible to the Committees decision to tender the audit contract whole organisation and can be used todevelop risk ahead of the mandatory rotation in 2024 was targets and tolerance levels for each keyrisk.
largely driven by Tullows financial and operational In 2018, the Audit Committee reviewed, discussed stability, the length of Deloittes tenure and the and briefed the Board on the regular reports on expectation that the audit tender market would be risks, controls and assurance, including the annual crowded for 2024 given the number of companies assessment of the system ofrisk management and applying transitional rules on audit tendering.
internal control, in order to monitor the effectiveness In line with the Groups procurement policy a ofthe procedures for internal control over financial Tender Strategy Document was drafted, which reporting, compliance and operational matters.
included criteria on which the tenderers would be Comfort was obtained through the coordinated assessed.
The focus of the assessment criteria, activities ofInternal Audit, which comprised: and overall weighting, was on audit quality but - audits undertaken by the Internal Audit function: industry knowledge and experience, team and cultural alignment and fees were also assessed.
- assurance activities undertaken by the Anumber of stakeholders were notified of Tullows Groupfunctions: intention to tender the audit contract and invited to - enhancement of the enterprise risk provide input or feedback into the process.
A group management and assurance processes: of five audit firms was formally invited to tender, including two non big four firms, but excluding - the external auditors observations on Tullows current auditor, Deloitte LLP.
A subset of internalfinancial controls identified as part the five firms accepted Tullows invitation to tender ofitsaudit: and and submitted written proposals.
Oral presentations - regular performance, risk and assurance took place in November 2018 and were assessed reporting by the Business Unit and corporate alongside written submissions against the set of teams to the Board.
predetermined criteria resulting in the Audit Committee recommending the preference of During the year, Internal Audit presented its Ernst& Young LLP to the Board for its consideration.
findings to the Audit Committee, which monitored In December 2018 the Board endorsed the Audit the progress of issues raised and their resolution Committees preference and appointed Ernst & on a regular basis.
On occasions, Senior Management Young LLP to become the Groups statutory auditor representatives from the business were also for the financial year commencing 1 January 2020. invited to the Audit Committee meetings to provide The appointment remains subject to approval by updates on key matters such as the Group Finance shareholders at the 2020 Annual General Meeting.
Controls Project, progress over the Ghana Finance Enhancement Project, tax strategy and proposed Internal controls and risk management disclosure, as well as further improvements The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility required in the supplier due diligence process.
on behalf of the Tullow Board for reviewing the In addition, during the year, the Audit Committee, effectiveness of the Groups risk management and aspart of full Board meetings, received reports internal control systems.
In 2018, in concert with from the independent reserves auditor, ERCE, and the whole Board, the Audit Committee completed a reviewed the arrangements in place for managing robust assessment of the principal risks facing the information technology risk relating to the Groups Company, including those that would threaten its critical information systems.
As part of that review business model, future performance, solvency or the Committee reviewed the level of use of SAP liquidity.
This assessment included emerging risks, inTullow and plans for future automation and such as the impact of Brexit, GDPR and diversity enhancements to financial systems.
The Committee and inclusion: however, these have been assessed also reviewed the arrangements for Company as being low in the short to medium term.
The employees and contractors to raise concerns assessment included several engagements with through the speaking up programme.
theExecutive Team and this approach has resultedin better ownership and accountability of Based on the results of the annual effectiveness enterprise-wide risks amongst the Executive Team.
review of risk management and internal control For each of the principal risk categories, the Board systems that was coordinated by Group Internal developed a set of risk appetites and reviewed Audit, the Audit Committee concluded that the Executive Teams risk strategies to mitigate them.
system of internal controls operated effectively As part of that process, the Board identified which throughout the financial year and up to the date risks Tullow should not tolerate, which should be onwhich the Financial Statements were signed.
mitigated to an acceptable level and which could be accepted in order todeliver our business www.
com 75 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Internal audit requirements Whistleblowing procedure The Audit Committees role is to consider how the We ensure that an effective whistleblowing Groups internal audit requirements are satisfied procedure is in place.
and make relevant recommendations tothe Board.
- In line with best practice and to ensure Tullow - The Group Head of Internal Audit has direct works to the highest ethical standards, an access and responsibility to the Audit Committee independent whistleblowing procedure was Chairman and Committee.
His main responsibilities established in 2011 and operated throughout include: evaluating the Groups assessment of 2018 to allow staff to confidentially raise any the overall control environment as well as the concerns about business practices.
This procedure assessment of effectiveness of risk identification complements established internal reporting and management at business and corporate processes.
The whistleblowing policy is included levels.
During 2018, the Group Head of Internal in the Code of Ethical Conduct which is available Audit met twice with the Audit Committee to all staff in printed form and on the corporate without the presence of management.
Each member ofstaff needs to complete an online awareness course to refresh their - The Committee reviewed and challenged the knowledge of key provisions of Tullows Code programme of 2018 internal Audit work ofEthical Conduct.
The Committee considers developed to address both financial and overall thewhistleblowing procedures to be appropriate risk management objectives identified within for the size and scale of the Group.
The plan was subsequently adopted with progress reported at the Audit Committee - The Committee receives from the Group meetings.
42 internal audits were undertaken Ethicsand Compliance Manager summaries of during the year, covering a range of financial and investigations of significant known or suspected business processes in the Groups London office misconduct by third parties and employees and the main operational locations in Ghana including ongoing monitoring and following andKenya.
Detailed results from these reviews upofinternal investigations.
were reported to management and in summary to the Audit Committee during the year.
Where Review of effectiveness of the Audit Committee required, the Audit Committee receives full - During the year, the Audit Committee has details on any key findings.
The Audit Committee undergone an independent review of its own receives regular reports on the status of the effectiveness with the results reported to the implementation of Internal Audit recommendations.
The Committee was considered to beoperating effectively and in accordance with - Internal Audit undertook regular audits of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the non-operated Joint Ventures at the request of relevant guidance.
Internal Audit also runs a systematic programme of audits Looking forward to 2019 of suppliers compliance with commercial and - The Committee will oversee and ensure smooth business ethics clauses, including bribery and transition from the current external auditor to corruption, on significant and high-riskcontracts.
- The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness - The Committee will continue to oversee of Internal Audit through its review of progress implementation of systems, including upgrade versus plan and the results of audits reported.
ofSAP and other systems, which may have an In2018, PwC was selected by the Company impact on financial reporting.
tocarry out an assessment of Internal Audits size and scope and the function was deemed - The Committee will review externally the adequately resourced to coordinate Internal effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
Audit activities and to provide assurance services - The Committee will review preparedness of the to the management around non-operated Joint Company for HMRCs Making Tax Digital for Ventures and suppliers compliance audits as VATobligations.
well as to coordinate risk management activities across the Group.
In line with the requirements of - The Committee will continue to review the the Institute of Internal Auditors, the Committee effectiveness of risk management process, requested a full external assessment of the integrated assurance, effectiveness of material internal audit process in 2019. controls and managements control improvement activities.
76 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
