NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER The main function of the Nominations Committee is to ensure that the Board and its Committees are appropriately constituted and have the necessary skills and expertise to support the Companys current and future activities and deliver its strategy for sustainable long-term success.
TheCommittee also continues to focus on succession and the recruitment, development and retention of a diverse pipeline of managers who will occupy the most senior positions in the Company inthe future.
Early in 2018, the Committee completed its work As part of the Committees strategy to equip the on Chair succession when it was announced thatIwould be appointed as an independent Board with the skills and attributes it will require, the non-executive Director and Chair-Designate Board approved two diversity targets: at least 20 per witheffect from the conclusion of the AGM.
Thisconcluded along and successful effort cent African membership and at least 30 per cent bytheCommittee to manage one ofthe most female membership on the Board by 2020. significant leadership transitions in Tullows history.
In July 2018 Aidan Heavey retired from Dorothy Thompson, Chair of the Nominations Committee Tullow and I was appointed Chair of the Board andChair of the Nominations Committee.
Upon my appointment as Chair of the Committee, the Committee began an evaluation of the current COMMITTEE MEMBERS attributes of the Board and an in-depth review of Meetings attended the skills, experience and personal characteristics Dorothy Thompson 1 1 that will be required of the Board now and in the Jeremy Wilson 3 3 future to deliver the long-term strategy of the Company.
This review also took into account the Steve Lucas 3 3 principal and emerging risks that face the Company Aidan Heavey 2 2 and its strategy.
As a result, the Committee Paul McDade 2 2 approved a proposal to increase the size of the Anne Drinkwater 1 1 Board and begin a search for at least two new non-executive Directors with the specific skills, Denotes Directors who were no longer Directors of the Company experience and personal characteristics identified asat 31December 2018. as required by the future Board.
At the time of this Denotes Director who was no longer a member of the Committee Report, those searches are under way and the as at 31 December 2018.
Committee is making strong progress towards achieving its aims.
We have reviewed a longlist ofcandidates and seek to make new appointments tothe Board during the course of 2019.
2018 HIGHLIGHTS The diversity of a board contributes to its success - Appointment of new independent non-executive Chair and theCommittee recognises the importance of oftheBoard.
establishing a board that is more reflective of the value that Tullow places on diversity and inclusion - In-depth review of the skills matrix, structure, size within ourbusiness.
As part of the Committees andcomposition required ofthe Board to deliver strategy to equip the Board with the skills and thelong-term strategic aims of theCompany.
attributes it will require, it proposed to the Board - Commencement of independent non-executive Director and the Board approved two diversity targets: at searches and review of candidatelonglist.
least 20 per cent African membership and at least 30per cent female membership on the Board by - Approval of target to deliver at least 20 per cent Africans 2020.
Appointments to the Board will always be and at least 30 per cent women on the Board by2020.
based upon individual merit and objective criteria - Review of terms of reference in light of the 2018 UK and the Committee was pleased to receive the Corporate Governance Code.
unanimous support of all the Board members in setting this target.
com 77 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In 2018, the Committee implemented the annual Committees role evaluation of the performance of the Board and The Committee reviews the composition and balance itsCommittees.
This was an internal evaluation of the Board and senior executives on a regular arranged by the Chair of the Committee and the basis and also ensures robust succession plans Company Secretary.
The results were presented are in place for all Directors and senior executives.
tothe Board and will be used by the Committee in When recruiting new Executive or non-executive 2019 to commission a full evaluation by an external Directors, the Committee appoints external search facilitator of the Board, its Committees and each consultants to provide a list of possible candidates, ofthe Directors.
from which a shortlist is produced.
External consultants are instructed that diversity is one The Committee is also responsible for ensuring ofthe criteria that the Committee will take into there are plans in place for the orderly succession consideration in its selection of the shortlist.
of Senior Manager positions within the business.
TheCommittees terms of reference are reviewed During the course of 2018, the Committee and the annually and are set out on the Groups website.
Board reviewed the succession arrangements in place for the recruitment, development and retention Committees main responsibilities of managers who will occupy the most senior The Committees main duties are: positions in the Company in the future.
In 2019, theCommittee will continue in this work and - reviewing the structure, size and composition support the Board in its focus on achieving a ofthe Board including the skills, knowledge, diverse and inclusive workforce population with experience and diversity of its members and anationality mix which is representative ofour making recommendations to the Board with assets geographic footprint and improves our regard to any changes required: gender diversity.
- identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates tofill Board vacancies as and when Dorothy Thompson they arise: Chair of the NominationsCommittee - succession planning for Directors and other 12 February 2019 seniorexecutives: - reviewing annually the time commitment required of non-executive Directors: and - making recommendations to the Board regarding membership of the Audit, Remuneration and other Committees in consultation with the Chairof each Committee.
Committee membership and meetings The composition of the Committee changed during 2018.
Dorothy Thompson joined the Committee in April on her appointment as a non-executive Director and Chair-Designate.
Following the successful appointment of Dorothy as the new Chair of the Board, she was appointed Chair of the Committee and Paul McDade stepped down as a member of the Committee.
The membership and attendance of members at Committee meetings held in 2018 are shown in the adjacent table.
In addition to three formal meetings, the Committee held a number of informal discussions, telephone conference calls and interviews during the year.
78 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Committee activities Looking forward to 2019 - Implementation of succession for Chair of the - The Committee will implement its plan to appoint Board.
Detailed planning for the identification new non-executives to the Board.
ofasuccessor to founder Aidan Heavey as Chair - The Committee will commission a full external ofthe Board.
In April 2018, the Committee evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
proposed and the Board approved the appointment of Dorothy Thompson as non-executive Director - The Committee will continue to review and monitor and Chair-Designate with effect from the conclusion succession planning of Senior Management.
The services of executive search - The Committee will oversee the progress of the consultants Spencer Stuart were employed in Companys policy on diversity and inclusion and thissearch.
There is no other connection howit is being implemented.
between Spencer Stuart and Tullow.
- In-depth review of the skills, experience and personal characteristics required of the current and future Board and the creation and approval of a succession plan to meet those requirements.
- Implementation of succession plan to appoint at least two non-executive Directors to the Board and the review of candidate longlists.
The services of executive search consultants Odgers Berndtson have been employed in this search.
There is no connection between Odgers Berndtson andTullow other than using it as a search firm for directors and senior executives.
- Annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees, including a review of the membership and chairmanship of each of the Board Committees.
- As a result of the changes to the Board during theyear, the Committee proposed and the Board approved the appointment of Mike Daly as Chair ofthe EHS Committee and the appointment ofDorothy Thompson as a member of the EHSCommittee and Nominations Committee.
Tutu Agyare was appointed a member of the Audit Committee.
Upon her appointment as Chair of the Board, Dorothy was also appointed Chair of the Nomination Committee.
- Supporting the Board in improving the diversity ofthe talent pipeline for the Board and Senior Managers.
As part of a continuing effort to increase gender and national diversity in the senior levels ofthe business, diversity and inclusion was again included in the 2018 corporate scorecard.
Progress against the Companys diversity plan was reviewed and further developments were made.
The Committee is confident that if the implementation of this plan continues with the same level of commitment observed in 2018, diversity, particularly at senior levels, will materially improve over the comingyears.
