Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 46 Financial statements Chair's Governance Statement The key themes of Board composition, Director until, at the latest, January 2020.
This culture and governance reform that Douglas allows sufficient time to recruit a new Chair of A refreshed Board referred to in the 2017 Governance Statement Audit Committee and a replacement Senior andExecutive Team remained pertinent throughout 2018.
Whilst Independent Non-Executive Director, whilst a number of governance objectives have maintaining a degree of business continuity and and a renewed been successfully achieved during the year, industry knowledge, particularly in light of Sir others have come to the fore and we remain Roberts extensive understanding of the UK and focuson business vigilant and firm in our resolve to ensure that US defence sectors.
The Board is mindful of the our governance supports and enhances the need to ensure that we maintain a broad and strategy, culture and performance of our Groups businesses.
complementary range of experience, skills, personalities and competencies on the Board, governance, will I am therefore pleased to present Ultras 2018 and this will form part of its criteria for any new ensurethat Ultra Corporate Governance Report, which explains non-executive appointments.
how the Board has applied itself to good remains a resilient and Culture governance and, in particular, applied the In the 2017 Governance Statement, recognising principles of the UK Corporate Governance sustainable business.
the importance of culture as the foundation for Code the Code during the year.
resilient and sustainable businesses across the Board changes and succession planning Group, Douglas commented on the Boards role A year ago the Board, and particularly the in overseeing the culture of the Group and the Dear Shareholder, Nomination Committee, was in the process of importance it plays in creating accountability recruiting a new Chief Executive Officer.
We welcomed the This is my first Governance Report as Chair of process was successfully completed during the appointment of a new Chief Human Resources Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
First, I would year and we are already seeing the benefits of Officer duringthe year, who will assist the Board like to thank Douglas Caster for his work as having our new Chief Executive Officer, Simon in itscontinuing work in this area.
The Board is Pryce, in place.
Simons appointment also particularly grateful to Douglas for having enabled Douglas to step back into the role of As part of its role in overseeing the culture stepped into the Executive Chair role at a Non-Executive Chair.
of thebusiness, the programme of Nondifficult time for Ultra and for his leadership Executive Director site visits continued during and guidance during the ensuing period of In addition to recruiting Simon, the Board and 2018 including visits to our facilities in the significant change and transition.
On behalf the Nomination Committee, led by Sir Robert UK and the USA.
The Board and Executive of the Board and all of Ultras employees, I Walmsley as Senior Independent Non-Executive Team also have a number of visits planned for would like to thank Douglas for his long and Director, undertook a search for a new 2019, which will be important in assessing dedicated service to the Group and wish him Non-Executive Director and Chair Designate, how Ultra's Focus, Fix, Grow journey all the best for his retirement.
resulting in my joining the Board in December is being supported across the Group.
2018 and taking over as Chair on 28 January 2019.
Details of the process by which I was Corporate governance reforms appointed are set out in the Report from the looking ahead Chair of the Nomination Committee set out The publication, in July 2018, of the new UK on page 54.
Corporate Governance Code, has prompted theBoard to review how it engages with key As announced on 6 March 2019, due to his stakeholders and especially employees, increasing non-Ultra commitments and his promotes diversity across the workforce recent appointment as Chair of the British including the Executive Team, and monitors Standards Institution, John Hirst has indicated and assesses Ultras culture, so that behaviour that he intends to step down as a Non-Executive throughout the Group is aligned with its values Director and Chair of the Audit Committee later and strategic goals.
A review of the Groups this year, once a suitable replacement has been governance arrangements is under way, aimed found.
John will step down from the at ensuring that the Group operates effectively Remuneration Committee after the 2019 Annual within the new Code and statutory reporting General Meeting.
We thank him for his wise requirements, and the outcome and compliance counsel over the years and wish him all the best with the Code and those requirements will be for his future endeavours.
reported in our 2019 Annual Report.
Sir Robert Walmsleys term asa Non-Executive Notwithstanding the challenges it has faced Director was due to expire inApril 2018.
Given inthe past 18 months, I believe that a refreshed the changes to the Board, in November 2017, it Board and Executive Team and a renewed focus was announced that the Board had asked Sir on business strategy, culture and governance, Robert to remain on the Board for a further year will ensure that Ultra remains a resilient and as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director sustainable business, focused on medium and to provide non-executive continuity and long-term growth and value generation.
Despite the considerable progress in 2018 there are further changes needed and TONY RICE the Board has again requested Sir Robert to Chair continue as Senior Independent Non-Executive 6 March 2019
