Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 47 Corporate Governance Report Board has always considered Sir Robert to Compliance statement Summarised below and explained in detail be independent in character and judgement, Until the appointment of Simon Pryce as Chief throughout this report, we have described which is the primary consideration for the Executive Officer on 18 June 2018, Douglas how we have applied the main principles purposes of Provision B.
1.1 of the Code, Caster carried out the role of Executive Chair, of the Code.
and he has continued to demonstrate that meaning that the Board did not comply with independence of character and judgement, Code Provision A.
2.1 of the Code, which and to constructively challenge Board requires the separation of the roles of Chair LEADERSHIP and Management decisions through his and Chief Executive Officer.
Following the participation in Board meetings and strategy The Board provides leadership to the resignation of the previous Chief Executive Group and rigorously challenges reviews during the year.
On that basis, in November 2017, Douglas' appointment the Board considers that Sir Robert should strategy, performance, responsibility and as Executive Chair was always expected accountability to ensure that the right continue to be regarded as independent to be a temporary arrangement pending for the purposes of the Code.
The Board is decisions are made in the right way the appointment of a new Chief Executive and in consideration of the long-term confident that he will continue to demonstrate Officer.
That process concluded in March these characteristics during the coming successof the Group.
2018 when it was announced that Simon year, until he retires from theBoard.
Read more about the Board's Pryce would be appointed Chief Executive LEADERSHIP on Pg 48 Officer from 18 June 2018, and Douglas Throughout the financial year ended would revert to being the Non-Executive 31 December 2018, the Board considers that Chair.
Since 18 June 2018, the Board has it, and the Company, has complied in all other been compliant with Code Provision A.
EFFECTIVENESS respects with the other provisions set out in Directors are appointed on merit, following theCode.
The Code is issued by the Financial In late 2017, the Board asked Sir Robert a rigorous and transparent process.
Reporting Council and is publicly available on Walmsley, whose term as a Non-Executive The Board has evaluated the balance their website www.
In this Corporate Director was due to expire in April 2018, to of skills, experience, knowledge and Governance Report, we describe how the Board remain on the Board for a further year as independence of the Directors through has applied the Main Principles of the Code.
As outlined an externally facilitated evaluation above, this step was taken to provide nonprocess and ensures that all new Directors executive continuity on the Board during the undertake an induction programme.
period of transition in the executive leadership Read more about the Board's of the Company.
Further, for the reasons EFFECTIVENESS on Pg 51 set out above, Sir Roberts term has been further extended until January 2020.
The ACCOUNTABILITY Effective risk management is fundamental toachieving the Companys objectives.
Decisions are based on the Boards appetite for risk.
Read more about the Board's ACCOUNTABILITY on Pg 53 Board and Committee Structure Board RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS We maintain strong relations with Nomination Executive Remuneration Audit Committee shareholders through events and Committee Team Committee consultations.
Read more about SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS on Pg 53 The Board has delegated certain key responsibilities to the Nomination Committee see page 54, tothe Audit Committee see page 57 and to the Remuneration Committee see page 62.
These Committees make recommendations to the Board for approval: however, ultimate responsibility lies with the Board.
REMUNERATION Executive Directors remuneration is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The Board ensures performance-related elements are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Read more about the Companys REMUNERATION on Pgs 6277 Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 48 Financial statements Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership Board attendance during 2018 9 scheduled and 6 unscheduled meetingsheld Summary of Board Activities during 2018 Key Activity Timetable Douglas Caster Chair 15 15 Review of Health, Safety and Simon Pryce 6 15 Environmental Report January Board Meeting Amitabh Sharma 15 15 Receipt of Ethics Committee Report April Board Meeting Martin Broadhurst 15 15 Governance Workshop April Geeta Gopalan 14 15 Received Divisional Strategy September, November John Hirst 14 15 Presentations andDecember Victoria Hull 15 15 Appointment of CEO June Board Meeting Sir Robert Walmsley 15 15 Appointment of NED and Chair December Board Meeting Designate Tony Rice 1 15 Simon Pryce attended all Board meetings after his appointment in June 2018: Geeta Gopalan and John Hirst were unable to attend one unscheduled meeting: Tony Rice attended all Board meetings after his appointment as Non-Executive Director inDecember 2018.
Roles Ethics Overview Committee Ultra is committed to ethical business conduct.
In this regard, the The role of the Board Group has the benefit of an independent Ethics Overview Committee.
All the Directors are collectively responsible for providing effective Ultra's Policy Statement on Ethics and Business Conduct is available leadership and direction in delivering the key corporate objective of from the Corporate Responsibility section of the Group's website generating shareholder value.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are www.
The Ethics Overview Committee, responsible for exercising independent and objective judgement and through its independently appointed members, underpins this forscrutinising and challenging management.
The Board is responsible policy, by checking andtesting it in support of the Board.
It does this forapproving strategy and policies, for oversight of risk, controls and through discussions with senior managers, receipt of reports, visits corporate governance, and for setting a culture which encourages the to Company sites, engagement with employees and managers at Groups businesses to behave ethically.
The Board is accountable to those sites and, where appropriate, requests to senior managers for shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and for Ultras various documents that assist the members in fulfilling this role.
long-term success: it represents the interests of all stakeholders.
Board meetings Members of the Board and their biographies are shown on pages 44 There were nine scheduled Board meetings during 2018, plus a number and45.
ofunscheduled Board meetings to consider and approve, amongst other things, the termination of Ultra's bid to acquire Sparton Corporation, the Leadership raising of long-term debt of up to US$200m, and the appointment of The Board is led by the Chair of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive anew Chief Executive Officer and a new Non-Executive Director and Officer is ordinarily responsible for the running of the business.
November 2017 and June 2018, Douglas Caster, as Executive Chair, undertook both roles on an interim basis pending the appointment of a Comprehensive briefing papers were circulated to the Directors in new Chief Executive Officer.
Since June 2018, the roles of Chair of the advanceof each Board meeting.
At each scheduled Board meeting, Board and Chief Executive Officer have been held by different individuals.
theBoard received: A written statement of the responsibilities of the Chair of the Board, Senior Independent Director and Chief Executive Officer has been in place for An Executive Chairs prior to June Chief Executive Officers Report several years and will be reviewed in 2019. from June onwards, which covered the Groups operational performance and particular performance issues in each division: Executive Team A Group Finance Directors Report, which covered financial forecasts It is the function of the Groups management, through the Chief Executive forthe half-year and full-year and reviews of financial performance, Officer and his Executive Team, to run the operations of the Group.
The banking covenants and analysts views of the Group, major Executive Directors set the Group strategy, which is subject to challenge shareholdings and major share buyers and sellers: and bythe Board before final agreement.
The Executive Team considers major An update on Major Projects and Mergers, Divestments and business issues and reviews those matters which are to be submitted to the Acquisitions.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for establishing the Executive Team and chairing the Executive Team meetings.
At certain scheduled Board meetings, presentations were made by Ultras businesses detailing recent performance, key opportunities including in The Executive Team comprises: Chief Executive Officer: Group Finance respect of specific bids or programmes and future forecasts.
The Executive Director: Corporate Marketing Director: EVP Commercial and Corporate Directors provided appropriate explanations for matters having a Affairs: General Counsel and Company Secretary: Chief HR Officer: and significant impact on the Groups financial performance and drew the Divisional Managing Directors Presidents.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 49 wider Boards attention to any significant trends or deviations from budget During 2018, the Board visited three operating businesses in the UK: revealed by monthly forecasts of future performance.
Acquisition and Command and Sonar Systems at Loudwater, PMES at Rugeley and PCS, divestment opportunities were also presented to the Board.
Martin Broadhurst also visited some of the Companys US businesses in October 2018.
Such visits provide a useful cultural barometer As a result of responsibility for the preparation of papers for the Board and enable the Board to see the Groups capabilities first-hand and to passing to the new Chief Executive Officer, having previously been the engage with colleagues, both formally and informally.
Members of the responsibility of the Executive Chair, the structure of the Board papers Ethics Overview Committee also visited Energy in Wimborne, 3eTI in hasdeveloped during the year.
In addition, the Board received regular Washington, USA and Energy and ATS in Austin, USA.
privileged legal reports on the investigation by the Serious Fraud Office the SFO, announced on 19 April 2018, and also reports on the Sparton A summary of how the Board spent its time in 2018 is set out below.
The acquisition and Senior Management and Board recruitment.
The Group full range of Board responsibilities are detailed in the document entitled also received compliance reports from the businesses across the Group.
Terms of Reference for Main Board, which is available from the Groups website www.
com about-us corporate-governance When a scheduled Board meeting is not held in the month, the Directors .
The principal duties of the receive a summary financial report for the Group comprising consolidated Board during the year were discharged as follows: financial information and business financial information, summary financial reports from each of the businesses, forecasts for the halfand full-year, and a shareholder analysis summary report on Ultra.
Group strategy Review the Groups strategies for growth and the market segment Half-day Board strategy sessions were held on 27 September, strategies.
29 November and 17 December, which focused on the divisional Monitor the performance of the Group against these strategies.
Presentations were given by the Executive Team and Divisional Leads and discussions were held on significant matters identified in respect of each of the divisions.
Following his appointment to the Board, the new Chief Executive Officer has reported his initial thoughts on the strategic and operational development of the Group and has provided regular updates to the Board as his views on the Groups strategy crystallise.
Financial reporting and controls Agree the budget.
As part of its annual work plan, the Board approved the annual Review the financial results and forecasts, reports on performance andinterim financial statements and accompanying regulatory against budget.
announcements, reviewed and approved the annual budget and Shareholder engagement and analysis.
approved the Groups dividend policy, payment of the interim Treasury and tax activities.
dividend and the recommendation of the final dividend.
Review dividend policy and set dividend.
The Board reviewed reports from the Boards Committees, including Review and approve the Annual Report and Accounts and interim recommendations from the Audit Committee in respect of: the report.
effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control statement: the adoption of the going concern statement: thelong-term viability statement: impairment: and the reappointment of the External Auditor.
The Board approved the Group tax and treasury strategy and alsoconsidered the implications of US Corporate Tax Reform fortheCompany.
The Board approved the raising of long-term debt up to US$200m.
Market analysis and major bids Receive market reports.
At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received a Marketing Review major bid wins and losses.
Report providing a brief on market developments, order intake and Review significant current and future bids.
bids including information in respect of missed bids.
Further improvements were made to this report in the year to improve order pipeline visibility.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 50 Financial statements Corporate Governance Report continued Group risk framework and management Set the Groups risk appetite and monitor the Groups The Board supported by the Audit Committee conducted an annual significantrisks.
refresh of the Group risk register including risk appetite, and reviewed the Groups principal risks to determine the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take and to review the management of those risks.
The Board received a health, safety and environment report summarising the position across the Group and considered reports on externally reportable health and safety incidents and evaluated the adequacy of the correction and mitigation plans.
The Board approved the Groups insurance programme.
People, Board effectiveness and succession planning Receive reports on changes in senior management.
At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received an update on Review board succession planning.
changes and recruitment in senior management.
The Board took part in an annual Board evaluation see page 52 for further information on this.
Significant transactions, matters and expenditure Consider, review and approve significant transactions.
At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received project reports Review major capital projects and bids.
on major contracts and programmes including the S3 and ERP Monitor significant litigation and disputes.
programmes and evaluated acquisition opportunities.
Privileged legal reports were received on the regulatory processes in connection with the conclusion of the Sparton Corporation acquisition and the ongoing SFO investigation.
Corporate governance and legal & regulatory compliance Receive reports from the Board Committees.
Biannually, the Board reviews the Compliance Reports prepared by Receive reports on legal and regulatory developments.
Divisional Managing Directors DMDs and Presidents which Review Group policies.
summarise the compliance matters in the Business Performance Reports submitted each month by the Business MDs and Presidents.
The Board participated in a Corporate Governance Workshop.
The Board considered and approved Group policies.
The Board reviewed and approved its policy in relation to the use ofAgents.
The Board reviewed the annual corporate governance update prepared by the General Counsel and Company Secretary, and approved recommended associated actions.
The Board considered, evaluated and approved actions in respect ofmaterial upcoming legal and regulatory updates, including the EUGeneral Data Protection Regulation GDPR, gender pay gap reporting and US tax reforms.
The Board received a report on the UK Corporate Governance Code and considered the steps to be taken to ensure compliance.
The Board reviewed reports on the Groups offset policy.
Governance and Compliance continue to develop and maintain best Board priorities for 2019 practice standards in corporate governance and compliance the Board Strategic development and implementation.
will oversee the Groups compliance with GDPR, gender pay gap Support further development of talent and succession planning across reporting, payment practices reporting, and any changes required as a the Group with particular focus on the sales and marketing, project result of the 2018 Code and new statutory reporting requirements.
Ensure that the Board has the right mix of experience and competencies, particularly in the light of the ongoing changes to its composition.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 51 Effectiveness procurement, accountancy, financial management and financial services, Board skills and experience legal and growing international businesses.
This range of skills and The Board has a balance of skills, understanding, perspectives and experience informs the Boards decision-making and enables it to provide experience relevant to the Groups activities.
Collectively, the Board effective leadership.
The particular skills and experience that each Director members possess an understanding of the Groups core defence, security, brings to the Board are described in their biographies on pages 4445 and transport and energy markets.
This is complemented by members summarised as follows: experience and expertise in other industries and disciplines including Sectors Geographies Experience Capital markets & Leadership Defence & Security & Transport Energy UK & North Rest of the Finance & public Public sector & inlarge Corporate Aerospace Cyber markets markets Europe America World legal companies procurement organisations Governance Tony Rice Douglas Caster Simon Pryce Amitabh Sharma Martin Broadhurst Geeta Gopalan John Hirst Victoria Hull Sir Robert Walmsley Executive Directors are permitted to accept one appointment as a Non-Executive Director other than the Chair in another listed company.
The Board considers that such roles enrich the skills and experience of its Executive Directors to the overall benefit of the Company.
Executive Directors are permitted to retain any fees they receive from such external appointments.
Simon Pryce is a Non-Executive Director of Electrocomponents plc.
Directors induction and training Non-Executive Directors All new appointments to the Board receive an induction to the Group The key role of the Non-Executive Directors is to provide an appropriate covering: level of constructive challenge to the plans of the Executive Directors on behalf of stakeholders.
the Groups strategy, governance framework policies, and procedures: the products and services of the Groups businesses: Martin Broadhurst, Geeta Gopalan, Victoria Hull, John Hirst and Sir Robert the key markets in which the businesses operate: Walmsley are designated as independent Non-Executive Directors.
The the key risks which the Group faces together with the actions and plans Board considers them all to be independent in character and judgement.
In which are in place to mitigate these risks : making this assessment, the Board considers that they are independent of the corporate and organisational structure: management and free from business or any other relationship, which could financing principles: and interfere with the exercise of independent judgement, now or in the legal and regulatory matters.
Furthermore, with the exception of Sir Robert Walmsley for the reason set out on page 46 above, none of the circumstances set out in Visits to operating businesses are arranged.
New Directors are encouraged Code Provision B.
1.1 applies to any of the Non-Executive Directors.
The to meet business and divisional management teams to gain a feel for the Chair of the Board has also considered the Non-Executive Directors Groups style and culture.
performance in the year and has determined them to be effective and to have demonstrated commitment to their roles.
The Board considers that The General Counsel and Company Secretary presents to the Board any shareholdings of the Chair of the Board and Non-Executive Directors annually on corporate governance.
The Board is briefed on significant serve to align their interests with those of its shareholders.
changes in the law or governance codes affecting their duties as Directors.
Experts present to the Board on specialist areas, such as pensions and tax.
The Non-Executive Directors met without the Chair of the Board or Specific training is arranged for Directors as and when appropriate, and as Executive Directors being present during the year to discuss aspects may be requested by any member of the Board.
The Directors are able to relating to the Board and the Company and gave appropriate feedback.
call on independent professional advice at any time should this be necessary in order for them to carry out their duties.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 52 Financial statements Corporate Governance Report continued Board evaluation The evaluation and subsequent discussions demonstrate the Board's Historically, Board evaluations have been run on a two-year cycle with the commitment to continue to improve its effectiveness as a whole.
Further, effectiveness of the Board and its Committees evaluated in one year and, the Board considers that each Director contributes effectively and individual Directors performance evaluated in the following year.
demonstrates commitment to the role.
In addition, whilst the Nomination Committee's focus has turned to succession planning for the Board and its In November 2018, Jack Telfer of Auxesis Consulting Ltd facilitated a Board Committees, there is currently an appropriate balance of skills, experience, evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
All independence, diversity and knowledge of the Company to enable the Directors completed a detailed questionnaire requiring them to give Directors to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
feedback on their perception of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
The objective of the process was to encourage the improved Commitment of time by all Directors to Board and Committee meetings performance of the Board as a whole.
A report of the results was given to and other duties is also considered sufficient for the effective discharge of the Chair and discussed with the Board in December 2018.
The Chair has their responsibilities.
also met with Mr Telfer, and with each member of the Board separately, to discuss the findings of the report, and actions resulting from the evaluation Corporate Governance Workshop will be formulated over the coming weeks and months.
In April 2018, the Board participated in a Governance Workshop facilitated by BP&E Global, the purpose of which was to review certain corporate Mr Telfer has considerable experience working at board level.
He was the governance processes and systems, and consider whether the Board perceived Group Human Resources Director of Ultra until June 2004 when he left that any improvements to such processes and systems were required.
Ultra to set up his own consultancy and so is able to facilitate the evaluation from a position of having a good understanding of the In preparation for the Workshop, a Senior Consultant at BP&E Global foundation of the Groups operations culture.
heldtelephone interviews with, or received email feedback from, each member of the Board in order to create a suitable framework for The report reflects a point in time following a period of significant change discussions at the Workshop.
and a number of challenges faced by the Board.
In this context it is acknowledged in the report that some disruption to the Board's usual A summary of the significant and common themes based on these disciplines was always likely, but the Board had worked well together in telephone calls email feedback were provided at the Workshop to facilitate difficult circumstances to respond to a challenging set of events.
A number of action points, focused on improving evaluation, report and subsequent Board discussions have resulted in certain elements of Ultra's internal governance processes, were agreed as a certain key areas of focus for the Board in 2019, which are set out below: result of this Workshop.
A follow-up meeting of the Board in November 2018 reviewed progress in respect of each of these actions, and ongoing Ensuring Board oversight of risk and oversight processes and practices implementation will continue to be monitored by the Board during 2019. across the Group: Keeping management accountable for business performance: Serious Fraud Office investigation improving the rigour of decision-making processes for key investment As previously announced, the SFO is continuing to investigate the conduct opportunities: of business in Algeria by Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra, its Ensuring effective processes are in place to develop senior management: subsidiaries, employees and associated persons.
The investigation Reviewing Board processes, administration and functionality.
commenced in April 2018 following a voluntary self-report made by Ultra to the SFO.
Ultra continues to cooperate with the SFO and will make a The Board considered that prioritising these matters in 2019 would further statement once the investigation is complete.
improve the performance of the Board as a whole.
Further, the appointment of a new Chief Human Resources Officer in November 2018, a new Head of Investor Relations and a permanent General Counsel and Company Secretary in January 2019, and a permanent Chief Risk Officer during the course of 2019, would support the Board's renewed focus on these matters in 2019.
The Board intends to commission an external Board evaluation in 2020 but, given the ongoing changes to the composition of the Board, it considers it more appropriate to carry out an internal evaluation in 2019, facilitated by the General Counsel and Company Secretary, but using a recognised online Board evaluation platform.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 53 Accountability Relations with shareholders Risk management and internal control Commitment to dialogue The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management framework and The Board is committed to a high-quality dialogue with shareholders.
internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
TheExecutive Directors take the lead in engaging with shareholders and analysts on the performance of the business.
The Chair of the Board, The Group has internal control systems across finance, operations, human Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are resources and compliance and key controls have been identified.
The available to meet with shareholders on request if there are matters that Board, via the Audit Committee, monitors the internal control systems on they wish to discuss outside of the normal channels of communication.
The risk framework and internal control systems play a The Board conducted an independent perception audit of the Group key role in the management of risks that may impact the fulfilment of the during the year which included views from shareholders and analysts.
They are designed to identify and manage, rather than aresult, a new Head of Investor Relations was appointed in January 2019. eliminate, the risk of Ultra failing to achieve its business objectives and can Her role is to strengthen relationships with shareholders and to create a only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material more consistent communications strategy for the Group.
She will keep the misstatement of losses.
In addition, the Company is in the process of Board informed of views and changes in Ultra's shareholder base.
recruiting a permanent Chief Risk Officer to bolster the monitoring and reporting ofrisk to the Board.
Annual programme A full programme of engagement with shareholders, potential investors Details of the processes the Board has in place to identify, evaluate and and analysts is undertaken each year by the Executive Directors.
Focused manage the principal risks faced by the Group can be found in the risk events and or site visits are arranged to provide greater insight into the section of the Strategic Report.
strengths and potential of its extensive portfolio of specialist capabilities.
Visits and presentations in the year included various roadshows, investor In accordance with the Code, the Board confirms that: conferences and hosted visits for analysts.
These range from introductory briefings on the Group as a whole to presentations on specific areas There is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing ofcapability.
the principal risks faced by the Group.
The systems have been in place for the year under review and up to the During 2018, two roadshows were held following the preliminary and date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
interim results announcements, and analysts were invited to visit the The systems are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Ultrastand at the Farnborough airshow.
Except as described on page 52 no significant failings or weaknesses have been identified and the systems accord with the FRC guidance on Meetings are held with institutional investors and financial analysts after risk management, internal control and related financial business the release of the interim and full-year financial results, at which detailed reporting.
These briefings are also available from the Investors section of the Groups website www.
com, together with In light of developments during the year, the Board has reviewed risk copies of all regulatory announcements, press releases and copies of the management and internal control processes and, except as set out on published full-year and interim Reports and Accounts.
page52, consider that they continue to be effective.
Further details on theinternal control systems and processes can be found in the Audit The Board is regularly updated by the Head of Investor Relations and the Committee Report.
Companys stockbrokers on analysts and major shareholders views on the Company.
The Board receives areport at each Board meeting on any changes to the holdings of the Companys main institutional shareholders.
