GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A list of our current Directors, their roles on the Boards, their dates UNILEVERS STRUCTURE of appointment, tenure and their other major appointments is set Since its formation in 1930, the Unilever Group has operated as nearly out on page 3. as practicable as a single economic entity.
This is achieved by special The Boards have delegated the operational running of the Unilever provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC, together with Group to the CEO with the exception of the following matters which a series of agreements between NV and PLC which are together are reserved for the Boards: structural and constitutional matters, known as the Foundation Agreements described below.
These corporate governance, approval of dividends, approval and monitoring agreements enable Unilever to achieve unity of management, of overall strategy for the Unilever Group, approval of significant operations, shareholders rights, purpose and mission and can transactions or arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, be found on our website.
The CEO is responsible to the Boards The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the in relation to the operational running of the Group and other powers shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they delegated to him by the Boards.
The CEO can delegate any of his held shares in a single company and also regulates the mutual rights powers and discretions, and he does so delegate to members of the of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
Under this agreement, NV and Unilever Leadership Executive ULE with power to sub-delegate.
PLC must adopt the same financial periods and accounting policies.
The ULE is composed of the CEO, CFO and other senior executives who assist the CEO in the discharge of the powers delegated to The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their the CEO by the Boards.
Members of the ULE report to the CEO, respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for and the CEO supervises and determines the roles, activities and the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall responsibilities of the ULE.
While ULE members other than the CEO exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses and the CFO are not part of the Boards decision-making process, to the intention being to create and maintain a common operating provide the Boards with deeper insights, ULE members often attend platform for the Unilever Group throughout the world.
This Deed those parts of the Board meetings which relate to the operational also contains provisions for the allocation of assets within the running of the Group.
The ULE currently consists of the CEO, Unilever Group.
CFO, the Division Presidents, the Presidents for Europe and North Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing between America, and the Chief Research and Development Officer, Chief HR NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, guarantee Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary, Chief Marketing and the borrowings of the other and the others subsidiaries.
These Communications Officer and Chief Supply Chain Officer.
arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain The biographies of ULE members are on page 5. significant borrowings.
They enable lenders to rely on our combined financial strength.
BOARD COMMITTEES Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic The Boards have established four Board Committees: the Audit interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
However, Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Corporate Responsibility NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different shareholder Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
constituencies and separate stock exchange listings.
Shareholders The terms of reference of these Committees can be found on our cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for the shares of the website and the reports of each Committee, including attendance other.
More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found in at meetings in 2018, can be found on pages 43 to 65.
NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the Notices of Meetings www.
com investor-relations agm-and-corporatefor our NV and PLC AGMs, all of which can be found on our website.
governance  Thr oughout this report, when referring to NV shares or shareholders, the term shares or shareholder also encompasses a depositary receipt or THE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER a holder of depositary receipts.
Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Senior www.
com investor-relations  Director Vice-Chairman, CEO, CFO and other corporate governance  officers and how our Boards effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and delegate their authorities are set out in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever, which can be found on our website.
BOARDS The Boards of NV and PLC have ultimate responsibility for the The Governance of Unilever also describes the Foundation management, general affairs, direction, performance and long-term Agreements, Directors appointment, tenure, induction and training, success of our business as a whole.
The Boards are one-tier boards, Directors ability to seek independent advice at Unilevers expense the same people are on both Boards and the responsibility of the and details about Board and Management Committees including Directors is collective, taking into account their respective roles the Disclosure Committee.
as Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The majority of the Directors are Non-Executive Directors who essentially have www.
com investor-relations agm-and-corporatea supervisory role.
In the normal course Unilever has two Executive governance  Directors, the Chief Executive Officer CEO and the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
On 31 December 2018 the current CEO resigned and his successor, Alan Jope, was appointed on 1 January 2019.
Alan will be proposed to be appointed as an Executive Director at the 2019 AGMs.
Consequently, between 1 January 2019 and the 2019 AGMs in May we have one Executive Director.
36 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
