Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 54 Financial statements Nomination Committee Report CHAIRS About the Committee We continue to Attendance Committee membership during 2018 INTRODUCTION be mindful of the Tony Rice Chair Dear Shareholder, appointed 28 January 2019 0 5 expectation of our During 2018, our main priority was to undertake Douglas Caster 4 5 in a timely and thorough manner, the process of shareholders and appointing a new Chief Executive and Chair.
Martin Broadhurst 5 5 other stakeholders After objectives were successfully achieved in Geeta Gopalan 5 5 June and December respectively, our focus has in relation to diversity, turned to reviewing the tenure of our longJohn Hirst 5 5 serving Non-Executive Directors, and succession Victoria Hull 5 5 inall of its forms.
planning to ensure a balance of skills, experience Sir Robert Walmsley 5 5 and knowledge is maintained on the Board and TONY RICE its Committees.
Chair of the Douglas Caster did not attend one meeting at which the Nomination Committee agenda items dealt with his succession.
We also kept in view the succession planning and career progression of senior employees, and the recruitment and development of talent across the Group.
We believe that the Board CONSTITUTION and its Committees have an appropriate mix of skills and experience to operate effectively, Written terms of reference of the but recognise that changes to the composition Committee include all matters of the Board will be needed to ensure that recommended by the Code.
the balance of executive and independent The terms of reference were reviewed non-executive oversight is maintained.
As we during 2018. carry on with this process, we continue to be These terms of reference are available mindful of the expectation of our shareholders onthe Groups website and other stakeholders in relation to the www.
com investordiversity, in all of its forms, of our Board.
TONY RICE Chair of the Nomination Committee Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 55 Activity during 2018 During 2018, there were five two scheduled and three unscheduled meetings of the Committee.
The key activities of the Committee during the year are summarised as follows: Board appointment Before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluate the balance The search for a new Chief Executive Officer was the primary task of of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and, in the Committee in the first half of 2018.
The executive search firm Korn the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and Ferry was engaged to assist in this process.
The Company does not capabilities required for a particular appointment.
have any other connection with Korn Ferry.
The following process was In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee shall: use open adopted: advertising or the services of external advisors to facilitate the search.
the role specification and selection criteria were determined by the Consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds.
Nomination Committee: Consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria and the curricula vitae of the candidates were considered by the withdue regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, Nomination Committee: includinggender.
a sub-committee of the Committee interviewed the shortlisted candidates four of whom were external and two of whom were internal candidates : a number of shortlisted candidates were subsequently interviewed by each member of the Nomination Committee: the Nomination Committee met to agree the appointment of Simon Pryce as Chief Executive Officer: and a recommendation was put to the Board and approved.
The search for a new Chair was undertaken in the second half of the year.
Korn Ferry was again engaged to assist in this process.
Sir Robert Walmsley led the process and chaired all meetings in relation to this appointment: the role specification and selection criteria were determined by the Nomination Committee: the curricula vitae of the candidates were considered by the Nomination Committee: a sub-committee of the Committee interviewed the shortlisted candidates: a number of shortlisted candidates were subsequently interviewed by each member of the Nomination Committee: the Nomination Committee met to agree the appointment of Tony Rice as Non-Executive and Chair designate: and a recommendation was put to the Board and was subsequently approved by the Board.
Board composition and pipeline Regularly review the structure, size and composition including the The Committee considered the composition of the Board in view of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board in line with Sir Robert Walmsleys tenure as Non-Executive Director having the Codes requirements.
exceeded the nine-year term recommended by the UK Corporate Identify and nominate suitable candidates for appointment to the Governance Code.
As previously mentioned, the Committees focus Board, including chairmanship of the Board and its Committees, in the year was on the recruitment of the CEO and the Chair, and, in against a specification for the role and capabilities required for 2019, consideration will be given to finding appropriate theposition.
replacements for John Hirst as Chair of the Audit Committee and Sir Robert Walmsley as Senior Independent Director.
The Committee also reviewed the appointment of Martin Broadhurst, given that his period of service had exceeded six years.
The Committee concluded that his contribution and role on the Board was invaluable at a time of changes on the Board and unanimously supported his continued appointment as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 56 Financial statements Nomination Committee Report continued Succession planning Consider succession planning for Directors and senior executives In consideration of Executive-level succession planning, the below Board level.
Committee received a report explaining the annual Organisation, Succession & Development Plan OSDP process, the output from which is reviewed quarterly by the Executive Team.
The aim is to have a successor identified for all senior positions.
Where a permanent successor has not been identified, key roles would be covered by colleagues on an interim basis whilst external recruitment is undertaken.
The success of the OSDP process is evidenced by the balance between internal and external appointments at senior levels.
A review of the OSDP process will be undertaken in 2019.
Senior Executive Team recruitment processes were undertaken during the year in respect of the appointment of a Chief Human Resources Officer and a permanent General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Board evaluation Consider the results of the annual Board evaluation.
The results of the Board performance evaluation process were considered and presented to the new Chair of the Board shortly after his appointment.
Board Diversity Policy The Board Diversity Policy was implemented with effect from 29 July 2013.
The key statement and objectives of that policy are set out below.
Statement Progress against the Board Diversity Policy A Board composed of the right balance of skills, experience and diversity of Following the appointment of Victoria Hull and Geeta Gopalan to the views is best placed to support a company in its strategic objectives.
The Board during 2017, the proportion of female members of the Board was Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity of skills, background, 29% 2 7 Directors at the beginning of the year.
Simon Pryce was knowledge, international and industry experience, and gender, amongst appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Officer following a rigorous many other factors, will be taken into consideration when seeking to appointment process, which was conducted in conformity with this Board appoint a new Director to the Board and all Board appointments will Diversity Policy.
Nevertheless, with the appointment of another male Board always be made on merit.
member, the proportion of female members of the Board is currently 25% 2 8 Directors.
Objectives The Board will ensure Directors have an appropriate mix of skills and The Committee recognises that diversity is more than just gender based, experience and bring independent character and judgement.
The Board and will continue to ensure that it uses rigorous recruiting practices to believes that this is best achieved by continuing its broad, diversity-aware ensure the best candidates are nominated for appointment to the Board, best person for the role approach to recruiting, regardless of age, based on objective requirements and assessments, whilst taking into disability, gender reassignment, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy or account diversity in its broadest sense.
maternity, race, religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
For this reason, the Board has chosen not to set any specific objectives, but will instead Further information about Ultras initiatives to improve diversity across the continue to maintain its practice of embracing diversity in all its forms Group, including information on the gender split across the Board, when compiling a shortlist of suitable candidates and recommending any Executive Team and the Group as a whole, is set out on page 25 of our future Board appointments.
Details of our Gender Pay Gap is provided on our website at www.
The Committee's focus for 2019 In 2019, the focus of the Nomination Committee will be to: Appoint a replacement for Sir Robert Walmsley as a Senior Independent Director.
Appoint a replacement for John Hirst as Chair of the Audit Committee.
Review the performance of Executive Directors on the Board as part of the Committee's regular review of the Board's composition.
Review the remit and constitution of the Committee in the light of the requirements of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
In association with the Executive Team review the OSDP process.
