REPORT OF THE NOMINATING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE MEMBERS, MEMBERSHIP STATUS AND ULE AND ATTENDANCE Reappointment: All Directors unless they are retiring are nominated by the Boards for re-election at the AGMs each year on ATTENDANCE the recommendation of the Committee who, in deciding whether Marijn Dekkers Chair 5 5 to nominate a Director, take into consideration the outcomes of the Laura Cha 5 5 Chairmans discussions with each Director on individual performance, Feike Sijbesma Chair until May 2018 5 5 the evaluation of the Boards and its Committees and the continued good performance of individual Directors.
Non-Executive Directors This table shows the membership of the Committee together with normally serve for a period of up to nine years.
The average tenure their attendance at meetings during 2018.
If Directors are unable to of the Non-Executive Directors who have retired from the Boards over attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any the past ten years has been seven years.
The schedule the Committee agenda items with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the uses for orderly succession planning of Non-Executive Directors can number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
be found on our website at unilever.
Ann Fudge did not put herself forward for re-election at the AGMs in May 2018.
She had served nine years on the Boards.
The Committee proposed the HIGHLIGHTS OF 2018 reappointment of all other Directors and the Directors were appointed by shareholders by a simple majority vote at the AGMs.
Continued focus on development of a strong pipeline of The Committee also recommends to the Boards candidates for election potential Non-Executive and Executive Director candidates as Chairman and Senior Independent Director Vice-Chairman.
After and managing succession being reappointed as Non-Executive Directors at the 2018 AGMs, CEO succession Youngme Moon became the Senior Independent Director Vice-Chairman Follow up on actions agreed from the 2017 external and John Rishton and Strive Masiyiwa remained Chairs of the Audit Board evaluation Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee respectively.
Continued focus on Board Diversity Vittorio Colao became Chair of the Compensation Committee and Marijn Dekkers became Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
PRIORITIES FOR 2019 Succession Planning and Appointment: In consultation with the Committee, the Boards review the adequacy of succession planning Continued focus on development of a strong pipeline processes and the actual succession planning at Board level.
of potential Non-Executive and Executive Director candidates and managing succession, with focus on Board Diversity When recruiting, the Committee will take into account the profile Follow up on actions agreed from the 2018 external of Unilevers Boards of Directors set out in The Governance of Board evaluation Unilever which is in line with the recommendations of applicable Continued focus on Corporate Governance governance regulations and best practice.
Pursuant to the profile the Boards should comprise a majority of Non-Executive Directors who are independent of Unilever, free from any conflicts of interest ROLE AND MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE and able to allocate sufficient time to carry out their responsibilities The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible effectively.
With respect to composition and capabilities, the Boards for evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity should be in keeping with the size of Unilever, its strategy, portfolio, and knowledge on the Boards and for drawing up selection criteria, consumer base, culture, geographical spread and its status as a ongoing succession planning and appointment procedures for both listed company and have sufficient understanding of the markets internal and external appointments.
It also has oversight of all matters and business where Unilever is active in order to understand the key relating to corporate governance and brings any issues in this respect trends and developments relevant for Unilever.
The objective pursued to the attention of the Boards.
by the Boards is to have a variety of nationality, race, gender, ethnicity The Committees terms of reference are set out in The and relevant skills and expertise.
It is important that the Boards have Governance of Unilever which can be found on our website at sufficient global experience and outlook, and financial literacy.
During the year, the discussed later in this Report, Unilever currently has diverse Boards in Committee reviewed its own terms of reference to determine terms of gender and nationality and, as can be seen from the subset of whether its responsibilities are properly described.
The amended the mapping that this Committee has done of the current Nonterms became effective on 1 January 2019.
Executive Directors skills and capabilities on page 3, composition and capabilities in line with our Board profile described above.
The Committee is comprised of two Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
2018 appointments: The Committee recommended to the Boards to Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2018 or part thereof were nominate Andrea Jung as a new Non-Executive Director at the 2018 the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief HR Officer.
AGMs taking into account the views of Egon Zehnder.
In May 2018 the AGMs resolved to appoint Andrea Jung with immediate effect.
She In 2018 the Committee met five times.
At the start of the year the has further strengthened the Boards in the areas of consumer FMCG Committee considered the results of the Committees annual insights, sales & marketing and leadership of global entities.
self-evaluation for 2017 and its priorities for the year and used Upon Paul Polman's notice of retirement as CEO and Executive these to help create an annual plan for meetings for 2018.
Director effective 31 December 2018, the Committee recommended to appoint Alan Jope as his successor.
In forming its recommendation, the Committee had reviewed the selection criteria which had been developed as part of succession planning and the extensive slate of potential candidates and their respective capabilities by reference to those criteria.
Considering Alan Jope's skills set, depth of understanding and experience of Unilever and the sector and markets in which the Group operates, as well as his track record of delivering high quality performance, the Committee recommended that Alan Jope be nominated by the Boards as the new CEO effective 1 January 2019, which appointment was approved by the Board of Directors in November 2018.
Alan Jope will be proposed to be appointed as Executive Director at the AGMs in May 2019.
48 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Unilever Leadership Executive ULE Succession Planning and Appointment: In consultation with the Committee, the Boards review the adequacy of succession planning processes and the actual succession planning at ULE level.
In 2018 the Boards were consulted by the Chief Executive Officer upon the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior management changes.
DIVERSITY POLICY Unilever has long understood the importance of diversity within our workforce because of the wide range of consumers we connect with globally.
This goes right through our organisation, starting with the Boards.
Unilevers Board Diversity Policy, which is reviewed by the Committee each year, is reflected on our website at www.
The Boards feel that, while gender and ethnicity are an important part of diversity, Unilever Directors will continue to be selected on the basis of their wideranging experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge and insight.
In 2018 the Committee also reviewed and considered relevant recommendations on diversity and remains pleased that 45% of our Non-Executive Directors are women and that there are nine nationalities represented on the Boards.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS The Committee reviews relevant proposed legislation and changes to relevant corporate governance codes at least twice a year.
It carefully considers whether and how the proposed laws rules would impact upon Unilever and whether Unilever should participate in consultations on the proposed changes.
For example, during 2018, developments of the Dutch and the UK Corporate Governance Codes, the EU Shareholders Rights Directive and Boardroom diversity were discussed by the Committee.
EVALUATION As part of the Board evaluation carried out in 2018, the Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own composition and performance in 2018.
The Committee members concluded that the Committee is performing effectively.
Marijn Dekkers Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Laura Cha Feike Sijbesma Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Report 49
