GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A list of our current Directors, their roles on the Boards, their dates UNILEVERS STRUCTURE of appointment, tenure and their other major appointments is set Since its formation in 1930, the Unilever Group has operated as nearly out on page 3. as practicable as a single economic entity.
This is achieved by special The Boards have delegated the operational running of the Unilever provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC, together with Group to the CEO with the exception of the following matters which a series of agreements between NV and PLC which are together are reserved for the Boards: structural and constitutional matters, known as the Foundation Agreements described below.
These corporate governance, approval of dividends, approval and monitoring agreements enable Unilever to achieve unity of management, of overall strategy for the Unilever Group, approval of significant operations, shareholders rights, purpose and mission and can transactions or arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, be found on our website.
The CEO is responsible to the Boards The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the in relation to the operational running of the Group and other powers shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they delegated to him by the Boards.
The CEO can delegate any of his held shares in a single company and also regulates the mutual rights powers and discretions, and he does so delegate to members of the of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
Under this agreement, NV and Unilever Leadership Executive ULE with power to sub-delegate.
PLC must adopt the same financial periods and accounting policies.
The ULE is composed of the CEO, CFO and other senior executives who assist the CEO in the discharge of the powers delegated to The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their the CEO by the Boards.
Members of the ULE report to the CEO, respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for and the CEO supervises and determines the roles, activities and the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall responsibilities of the ULE.
While ULE members other than the CEO exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses and the CFO are not part of the Boards decision-making process, to the intention being to create and maintain a common operating provide the Boards with deeper insights, ULE members often attend platform for the Unilever Group throughout the world.
This Deed those parts of the Board meetings which relate to the operational also contains provisions for the allocation of assets within the running of the Group.
The ULE currently consists of the CEO, Unilever Group.
CFO, the Division Presidents, the Presidents for Europe and North Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing between America, and the Chief Research and Development Officer, Chief HR NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, guarantee Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary, Chief Marketing and the borrowings of the other and the others subsidiaries.
These Communications Officer and Chief Supply Chain Officer.
arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain The biographies of ULE members are on page 5. significant borrowings.
They enable lenders to rely on our combined financial strength.
BOARD COMMITTEES Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic The Boards have established four Board Committees: the Audit interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
However, Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Corporate Responsibility NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different shareholder Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
constituencies and separate stock exchange listings.
Shareholders The terms of reference of these Committees can be found on our cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for the shares of the website and the reports of each Committee, including attendance other.
More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found in at meetings in 2018, can be found on pages 43 to 65.
NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the Notices of Meetings www.
com investor-relations agm-and-corporatefor our NV and PLC AGMs, all of which can be found on our website.
governance  Thr oughout this report, when referring to NV shares or shareholders, the term shares or shareholder also encompasses a depositary receipt or THE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER a holder of depositary receipts.
Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Senior www.
com investor-relations  Director Vice-Chairman, CEO, CFO and other corporate governance  officers and how our Boards effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and delegate their authorities are set out in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever, which can be found on our website.
BOARDS The Boards of NV and PLC have ultimate responsibility for the The Governance of Unilever also describes the Foundation management, general affairs, direction, performance and long-term Agreements, Directors appointment, tenure, induction and training, success of our business as a whole.
The Boards are one-tier boards, Directors ability to seek independent advice at Unilevers expense the same people are on both Boards and the responsibility of the and details about Board and Management Committees including Directors is collective, taking into account their respective roles the Disclosure Committee.
as Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The majority of the Directors are Non-Executive Directors who essentially have www.
com investor-relations agm-and-corporatea supervisory role.
In the normal course Unilever has two Executive governance  Directors, the Chief Executive Officer CEO and the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
On 31 December 2018 the current CEO resigned and his successor, Alan Jope, was appointed on 1 January 2019.
Alan will be proposed to be appointed as an Executive Director at the 2019 AGMs.
Consequently, between 1 January 2019 and the 2019 AGMs in May we have one Executive Director.
36 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The report of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee BOARD EFFECTIVENESS NCGC on pages 48 and 49 describes the work of the NCGC in Board appointments and recommendations for re-election.
In addition, BOARD MEETINGS shareholders are able to nominate Directors.
The procedure for A minimum of five face-to-face meetings are planned throughout the shareholders to nominate Directors is contained within the document calendar year to consider important corporate events and actions, entitled Appointment procedure for NV and PLC Directors which is for example, the half-year and full-year results announcements of available on our website.
To do so they must put a resolution to both the Unilever Group: the development of and approval of the overall the NV and PLC AGMs in line with local requirements.
Directors are strategy of the Unilever Group: oversight of the performance of the appointed by shareholders by a simple majority vote at each AGM.
business: review of risks and internal risk management and control systems: authorisation of major transactions: declaration of dividends: www.
com investor-relations  of shareholders meetings: succession planning: review governance  of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees: culture: and review of corporate responsibility and sustainability, in particular the DIRECTOR INDUCTION AND TRAINING Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
Other ad hoc Board meetings are All new Directors participate in a comprehensive induction programme convened to discuss strategic, transactional and governance matters when they join the Boards.
The Chairman ensures that ongoing that arise.
In 2018 the Boards met physically in January, March, training is provided for Directors by way of site visits, presentations May, July, October and November.
Meetings of the Boards may be and circulated updates at and between Board and Board Committee held either in London or in Rotterdam or such other locations as meetings on, among other things, Unilevers business, environmental, the Boards think fit, with one or two off-site Board meetings a year.
social, corporate governance, regulatory developments and investor The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, ensures the Directors relations matters.
For example, in 2018 the Directors received receive accurate, timely and clear information, and promotes effective presentations on Information Security, Digital, the Supply Chain relationships and open communication between the Executive and and Simplification.
INDEPENDENCE AND CONFLICTS ATTENDANCE As the Non-Executive Directors make up the Committees of the The table showing the attendance of current Directors at Board Boards, it is important that they can be considered to be independent.
meetings in 2018 can be found on page 3.
If Directors are unable Each year the Boards conduct a thorough review of the Non-Executive to attend a Board meeting they have the opportunity beforehand to Directors, and their related or connected persons, relevant relationships discuss any agenda items with the Chairman.
Ann Fudge attended referencing the criteria set out in The Governance of Unilever four of the Board meetings she was eligible to attend before retiring which is derived from the relevant best practice guidelines in the from the Boards on 3 May 2018.
The Boards currently consider all our Non-Executive Directors to be independent of Unilever.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MEETINGS We attach special importance to avoiding conflicts of interest between The Non-Executive Directors usually meet as a group, without the NV and PLC and their respective Directors.
The Boards ensure that Executive Directors present, when there is a face-to-face Board meeting.
The Chairman, or in his there are effective procedures in place to avoid conflicts of interest by Board members.
A Director must without delay report any conflict absence the Senior Independent Director Vice-Chairman, chairs of interest or potential conflict of interest to the Chairman and to the such meetings.
other Directors, or, in case any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest of the Chairman, to the Senior Independent Director ViceBOARD EVALUATION Chairman and to the other Directors.
The Director in question must Each year the Boards formally assess their own performance with provide all relevant information to the Boards, so that the Boards can the aim of helping to improve the effectiveness of both the Boards decide whether a reported potential conflict of interest of a Director and the Committees.
At least once every three years an independent qualifies as a conflict of interest within the meaning of the relevant third party facilitates the evaluation.
The last external evaluation was laws.
A Director may not vote on, or be counted in a quorum in relation performed in 2017.
The evaluation consists of individual interviews to, any resolution of the Boards in respect of any situation in which he with the Directors by the Chairman and, when relevant, by the external or she has a conflict of interest.
The procedures that Unilever has put evaluator.
These interviews are complemented by the completion by in place to deal with conflicts of interest operate effectively.
all Directors of three confidential online evaluation questionnaires on the efficiency and effectiveness of our Boards, CEO and Chairman.
Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and the Unilever The Boards evaluation questionnaire this year focused on a number Group of senior executives acting as directors of other companies of key areas including Strategy, Risk Financial Controls, Board but, to ensure outside directorships of our Executive Directors do not Effectiveness and Information Knowledge.
The Chairman's statement involve an excessive commitment or conflict of interest, the number on page 2 describes the key actions agreed by the Boards following of outside directorships of listed companies is generally limited to one the evaluation.
per Executive Director and approval is required from the Chairman.
The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and CEO is led INDEMNIFICATION by the Senior Independent Director Vice-Chairman and Chairman The terms of NV Directors indemnification are provided for in NVs respectively, and the bespoke questionnaires will be used to support these evaluations.
Committees of the Boards evaluate themselves Articles of Association.
The power to indemnify PLC Directors is provided for in PLCs Articles of Association and deeds of indemnity annually under supervision of their respective Chairs taking into have been agreed with all PLC Directors.
Third-party directors and account the views of respective Committee members and the Boards.
officers liability insurance was in place for all Unilever Directors The key actions agreed by each Committee in the 2018 evaluations throughout 2018 and is currently in force.
can be found in each Committee Report.
In addition, PLC provides indemnities including, where applicable, APPOINTMENT a qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision to the Directors In seeking to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors, the of three subsidiaries each of which acts as trustee of a Unilever UK Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain provisions which are pension fund.
Appropriate trustee liability insurance is also in place.
designed to ensure that both NV and PLC shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election as Directors.
Anyone being elected as a Director of NV must also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice versa.
Therefore, if an individual fails to be elected to both companies he or she will be unable to take his or her place on either Board.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Report 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED In addition, NV conducted a share buyback programme during 2018 OUR SHARES with an aggregate market value of approximately 3 billion bought back in the form of 62,202,168 NV ordinary shares or depositary NV SHARES receipts in respect of such ordinary shares.
SHARE CAPITAL Following a public offer and a subsequent squeeze out procedure, NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2018 was made up of: Unilever Corporate Holdings Nederland B. V. UCHN, an indirect wholly 274,356,432 split into 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares of 0.16 owned subsidiary of PLC, acquired all 6% cumulative preference shares each: and and 7% cumulative preference shares.
Unilever N. V. purchased these 6% cumulative preference shares and 7% cumulative preference shares 1,028,568 split into 2,400 special ordinary shares numbered on 2 October 2018.
The resolutions of the General Meeting of NV and 1 2,400 known as special ordinary shares.
the Board of NV to cancel these shares were filed on 29 November 2018, When r eferred to the issued share capital on 31 December 2018 also as described within the Share Capital section above.
62,065,550 split into two classes 6% and 7% of cumulative preference shares was outstanding.
All 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares were Further information on these purchases can be found in note 4C to the held in treasury as a result of which these shares cannot be voted upon in the consolidated accounts on page 93.
The resolutions of the General Meeting of NV and the Board of NV to cancel these shares were filed on 29 November 2018 with the NV SPECIAL ORDINARY SHARES Dutch Trade Register and an announcement thereof in a daily and nationally distributed newspaper in the Netherlands was made on 5 December 2018.
To ensure unity of management, the provisions within the NV Articles These shares were cancelled on 6 February 2019. of Association containing the rules for appointing NV Directors cannot be changed without the permission of the holders of the special LISTINGS ordinary shares numbered 1 2,400 inclusive.
These NV special NV has ordinary shares UNIA and depositary receipts for such ordinary shares may only be transferred to one or more other holders ordinary shares UNA listed on Euronext Amsterdam and, as US of such shares.
The joint holders of these shares are N. V. Elma and New York Registry Shares UN on the New York Stock Exchange.
United Holdings Limited, which are subsidiaries of NV and PLC respectively.
The Boards of N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited One Ne w York Registry Share represents one NV ordinary share with comprise three Directors of the Unilever Boards.
VOTING RIGHTS TRUST OFFICE NV shareholders can cast one vote for each 0.16 nominal capital they The Foundation Unilever N. V. Trust Office Stichting hold and can vote in person or by proxy.
The voting rights attached to Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V. is a trust office with a board NVs outstanding shares are split as follows: independent of Unilever.
As part of its corporate objects, the Trust Office issues depositary receipts in exchange for the NV ordinary Total number % of issued shares.
These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, of votes capital as are the NV ordinary shares themselves a 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares 1,714,727,700 99.63 Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances exchange 2,400 special shares 6,428,550 0.37 their depositary receipts for the underlying shares and vice versa and are entitled to dividends and all economic benefits on the underlying As at 31 December 2018: shares held by the Trust Office.
There are no limitations on the a 254,012,896 shares were held in treasury and 9,336,215 shares were held to holders voting rights, they can attend all General Meetings of NV, satisfy obligations under share-based incentive schemes.
These shares and either personally or by proxy, and have the right to speak.
The Trust the special shares are not voted on.
All 6% and 7% cumulative preference Office only votes shares that are not represented at a General Meeting.
shares were held in treasury as a result of which these shares cannot be The Trust Office votes in such a way as it deems to be in the long-term voted upon, as described within the Share Capital section above.
interests of the holders of the depositary receipts.
This voting policy is laid down in the Conditions of Administration that apply to the SHARE ISSUES AND PURCHASE OF SHARES depositary receipts.
At the NV AGM held on 3 May 2018 the Board of NV was designated as the corporate body authorised to resolve on the issue of, or on The Trust Offices shareholding fluctuates daily.
Its holdings on the granting of rights to subscribe for, shares not yet issued and to 31 December 2018 were 1,268,051,254 NV ordinary shares 73.95%.
restrict or exclude the statutory pre-emption rights that accrue to At the 2018 NV AGM, the Trust Office represented 36.95% of all votes shareholders upon issue of shares, on the understanding that this present at the meeting.
authority is limited to 33% of NVs issued ordinary share capital and to disapply pre-emption rights to 5% of NVs issued share capital for The current members of the board at the Trust Office are Mr J H Schraven general corporate purposes and an additional 5% authority only in Chairman, Mr P M L Frentrop, Mr A Nhn and Ms C M S Smits-Nusteling.
connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
The Trust Office reports periodically on its activities.
Further information on the Trust Office, including its Articles of Association, Conditions In addition, at NVs 2018 AGM the NV Board was designated as of Administration and Voting Policy, can be found on its website.
the corporate body authorised to purchase i ordinary shares with a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital as well as ii any and www.
nl eng home all 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares.
These authorities expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2019 NV AGM or the close of business on 30 June 2019 the last date by which NV must hold an AGM in 2019.
Such authorities other than with respect to the 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares are renewed annually.
During 2018 companies within the Unilever Group purchased 4,000,000 NV ordinary shares, representing 0.23% of the issued ordinary share capital, for 183,380,649.
These purchases were made to facilitate grants made in connection with Unilevers employee compensation programmes.
Further information on these purchases can be found in note 4C to the consolidated accounts on page 93.
38 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PLC SHARES OUR SHAREHOLDERS SHARE CAPITAL SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS OF NV PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2018 was made up of: As far as Unilever is aware, the only holder of more than 3% of, or 1 36,934,840 split into 1,187,191,284 ordinary shares of 3 p each: 9 3% of voting rights attributable to, NVs share capital Disclosable and Interests on 31 December 2018 apart from the Foundation Unilever 100,000 of deferred stock of 1 each.
N. V. Trust Office, see page 38 is BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock as indicated in the table below.
LISTINGS Total number % of relevant PLC has ordinary shares ULVR listed on the London Stock Exchange Shareholder Class of shares of shares held class and, as American Depositary Receipts UL, on the New York Stock Exchange.
BlackRock ordinary shares 66,947,018 3.90 One Americ an Depository Receipt represents one PLC ordinary share with 1 BlackRock notified the AFM that its holding changed to 4.02% on a nominal value of 3 9p.
Between 1 January 2016 and 21 February 2019, VOTING RIGHTS BlackRock, NN Group N. V. NN, ASR Nederland N. V. ASR and UCHN, 1 see page 38, have held more than 3% in the share capital of NV.
PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each 3 9p nominal capital they hold and can vote in person or by proxy.
The voting rights attached to PLCs outstanding shares are split as follows: SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS OF PLC As far as Unilever is aware, the only holders of more than 3% of, Total number % of issued or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLCs ordinary share capital of votes capital on 31 December 2018 apart from shares held in treasury by PLC, 1,187,191,284 ordinary shares 1,187,191,284 99.73 see page 39, are BlackRock and the Leverhulme Trust as indicated in the table below.
100,000 deferred stock 3,214,285 0.27 Total number % of relevant As at 31 December 2018: Shareholder Class of shares of shares held class a 18,660,634 shares were held by PLC in treasury and 5,645,392 shares were held by NV group companies.
These shares and the deferred stock are not BlackRock ordinary shares 77,176,319 6.60 voted on.
The Leverhulme Trust ordinary shares 46,931,182 4.02 SHARE ISSUES AND PURCHASE OF SHARES At the 2018 PLC AGM held on 2 May 2018 the PLC Directors were As far as Unilever is aware, no new Disclosable Interests have been authorised to issue new shares, up to a maximum of 12,755,555 notified to PLC between 1 January 2019 and 21 February 2019 the nominal value which at the time represented approximately 33% latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Between 1 January of PLCs issued ordinary share capital and to disapply pre-emption 2016 and 21 February 2019, i BlackRock, and ii the aggregated rights up to approximately 5% of PLCs issued ordinary share capital holdings of the trustees of the Leverhulme Trust and the Leverhulme for general corporate purposes and an additional 5% authority only Trade Charities Trust, have held more than 3% of, or 3% of voting in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
rights attributable to, PLCs ordinary shares.
In addition, at PLCs 2018 AGM the PLC Board was authorised to make market purchases of its ordinary shares, up to a maximum of just STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT under 10% of PLCs issued ordinary share capital and within the limits We value open and effective communication with our stakeholders.
prescribed in the resolution until the earlier of the conclusion of PLCs The primary responsibility for stakeholder engagement, which is 2019 AGM and 30 June 2019.
These authorities are renewed annually generally related to the operations of the business, rests with our and authority will be sought at PLCs 2019 AGM.
Non-Executive Directors also actively engage with stakeholders as part of their oversight duties and responsibilities During 2018 companies within the Unilever Group purchased 2,222,000 that have not been delegated to the Executive Directors.
PLC ordinary shares, representing 0.19% of the issued share capital, for 87,978,671.
These purchases were made to facilitate grants SHAREHOLDERS made in connection with its employee compensation programmes.
Further information on these purchases can be found in note 4C The CFO has lead responsibility for shareholder engagement, with the active involvement of the CEO and supported by the Investor to the consolidated accounts on page 93.
In addition, PLC conducted a share buyback programme during 2018 The Executive Directors investor relations programme continued with an aggregate market value of approximately 3 billion bought back in the form of 63,236,433 PLC ordinary shares.
in 2018 with meetings held with institutional shareholders in major cities globally.
The Executive Directors and members of the Investor On 31 July 2018, PLC cancelled 110,493,623 PLC ordinary shares of Relations team also meet a large number of investors at the industry 1 3 9p each held in treasury, representing 8.43% of the issued share conferences they attend.
In 2018 industry conferences attended by capital.
On 19 September 2018, PLC cancelled a further 12,471,454 Unilever representatives included events in London, Paris, Stockholm, 1 PLC ordinary shares of 3 p each held in treasury, representing 1.04% 9 Boston and New York.
of the issued share capital.
Our annual investor seminar in December also allowed investors to meet the Chairman, CEO, CEO-designate, CFO and other members PLC DEFERRED STOCK of senior management.
The event was held at the offices of Hindustan To support unity of management, the holders of PLCs deferred Unilever in Mumbai and focused on Unilevers emerging markets stock have rights within PLCs Articles of Association relating to any expertise as well as the digital transformation of the business.
changes in the rules for appointing PLC Directors.
The joint holders of the PLC deferred stock are N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, In 2018, as part of the strategic review of options to accelerate which are subsidiaries of NV and PLC respectively.
The Boards of N. V. sustainable value creation and our proposal to simplify the Unilever Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise three Directors of the corporate structure, the Chairman met and spoke with global Unilever Boards.
The Chair of the Compensation Committee also extensively engaged with and sought feedback from investors in relation to our Remuneration Policy.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Report 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED On an ongoing basis, the Boards are briefed on investor reactions The 2018 AGMs were held in Rotterdam and London in May to the Unilever Groups quarterly results announcements and on any and the topics raised by shareholders included: e-commerce, issues raised by shareholders that are relevant to their responsibilities.
mergers & acquisitions, sustainability, Simplification, remuneration, total shareholder return, Brexit and data protection.
We maintain a frequent dialogue with our principal institutional shareholders and regularly collect feedback.
Private shareholders are Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually encouraged to give feedback via shareholder.
or together hold at least 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of Our shareholders are also welcome to raise any issues directly with shares or depositary receipts issued for NV shares.
Shareholders the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director Vice-Chairman, and who together represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV can, the Chairman, Executive Directors and Chairs of the Committees are under certain circumstances, also requisition the District Court to also generally available to answer questions from the shareholders allow them to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting to deal at the AGMs each year.
Shareholders of PLC may propose resolutions if they individually OTHERS or together hold shares representing at least 5% of the total voting Our Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors also engage with rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold on average 100 each a wide-ranging group of stakeholders during specific Unilever events.
in nominal value of PLC share capital can require PLC to propose For example, we annually organise one or more Board Relationship a resolution at a General Meeting.
PLC shareholders holding in meetings offering our Directors the opportunity to directly meet our aggregate 5% of the issued PLC ordinary shares are able to convene key customers, suppliers, agencies, NGOs, trade associations and a General Meeting of PLC.
In 2018, such meetings were held in the Netherlands and the UK.
Information on the 2019 AGMs can be found within the NV and PLC AGM Notices which will be published in March 2019.
EMPLOYEES In order to allow our Non-Executive Directors to gain first-hand REQUIRED MAJORITIES Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC General Meetings by experience of our operations and to engage in a broader context, we organise one or more site visits annually.
During these site visits, an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are other requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs Articles of Association.
For Non-Executive Directors are informed about local market conditions and operations as well as relevant local matters.
Typically, the example, there are special requirements for resolutions relating to the programme allows Non-Executive to meet management and young alteration of the Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the alteration of the Equalisation Agreement.
In 2018, such site visits were held in China, Germany, the Netherlands and the US.
In terms of engaging with A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only be made employees, our Non-Executive Directors actively participate in our by the NV Board.
A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of PLC management development programme sharing knowledge and can be made either by the PLC Board or by requisition of shareholders insight on a mutual basis.
in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in PLCs Articles of Association, PLCs Articles www.
com investor-relations of Association may be amended by a special resolution.
Proposals to alter the provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC GENERAL MEETINGS respectively relating to the unity of management require the prior Both NV and PLC hold an AGM each year.
At the AGMs the Chairman approval of meetings of the holders of the NV special ordinary shares gives his thoughts on governance aspects of the preceding year and and the PLC deferred stock.
The Articles of Association of both NV the CEO gives a detailed review of the performance of the Unilever and PLC can be found on our website.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the relevant meeting and to ask questions at or in advance of the meeting.
com investor-relations , the question and answer session forms an important part of governance  each meeting.
The external auditors are welcomed to the AGMs and are entitled to address the meetings.
RIGHT TO HOLD AND TRANSFER SHARES Provision 4.1.
8 of the Corporate Governance Code in the Netherlands Unilevers constitutional documents place no limitations on the right to Dutch Code and Code Provision E. 2.3 of the UK Corporate hold or transfer NV and PLC ordinary shares.
There are no limitations Governance Code UK Code require all Directors to attend both the on the right to hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of NV and PLC AGMs.
As questions asked at our AGMs tend to focus NV and PLC imposed by Dutch or English law.
on business related matters, governance and the remit of our Board Committees, the Chairman, CEO, CFO and the Chairs of our four Committees of the Board attend both our AGMs and the remaining members of the Board attend at least one AGM.
40 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 THE UNITED KINGDOM CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE In 2018, PLC complied with all UK Code provisions with the exception of UK Code Provision E. 2.3 as noted in the General Meetings section GENERAL above.
The UK Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils We conduct our operations in accordance with internationally accepted FRC website.
principles of good governance and best practice, while ensuring compliance with the corporate governance requirements applicable Risk Management and Control: Our approach to risk management in the countries in which we operate.
Unilever is subject to corporate and systems of internal control is in line with the recommendations governance requirements legislation, codes and or standards in the in the FRCs revised guidance Risk management, internal control Netherlands, the UK and the US and in this section we report on our and related financial and business reporting the Risk Guidance.
It is Unilevers practice to review acquired companies governance procedures and to align them to the Unilever Groups governance MATERIAL CONTRACTS procedures as soon as is practicable.
Under the European Takeover Directive as implemented in the Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions: Information on GHG emissions Netherlands and the UK, the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules of can be found on page 35. the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Unilever is required to provide information on contracts and other arrangements essential Employee Involvement and Communication: Unilevers UK companies or material to the business of the Unilever Group.
Other than the maintain formal processes to inform, consult and involve employees Foundation Agreements referred to on page 36, we believe we do and their representatives.
A National Consultative Forum comprising not have any such contracts or arrangements.
employees and management representatives from key locations meets regularly to provide a forum for discussing issues relating to Unilever THE NETHERLANDS sites in the United Kingdom.
We recognise collective bargaining on In 2018, NV complied with almost all the principles and best practice a number of sites and engage with employees via the Sourcing Unit provisions of the Dutch Code, with the exception of Dutch Code Forum, which includes national officer representation from the three Provision 4.1.
8 as noted in the General Meetings section above and recognised trade unions.
A European Works Council, embracing the best practice provision set out below.
The Dutch Code is available employee and management representatives from countries within on the Monitoring Committee Corporate Governance Codes website.
Europe, has been in existence for several years and provides a forum for discussing issues that extend across national boundaries.
3 The Dutch Code provides that in case of dismissal, the remuneration Equal Opportunities and Diversity: Consistent with our Code of of an Executive Director should not exceed one years salary.
Business Principles, Unilever aims to ensure that applications for employment from everyone are given full and fair consideration and It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Executive that everyone is given access to training, development and career Directors at no more than one years salary, unless the Boards, on the opportunities.
Every effort is made to retrain and support employees recommendation of the Compensation Committee, find this manifestly who become disabled while working within the Group.
unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated by applicable law.
uk Corporate Governance Statements: www.
com sustainable-living values-and-values In addition to an explanation of non-compliance to the Dutch Code, as set out above, the Dutch Code also requires the Board to confirm, and the Board hereby confirms that: this Annual Report and Accounts provides sufficient insights into any failings in the effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems: the systems mentioned above provide reasonable assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies: based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial reporting is prepared on a going concern basis: and this Annual Report and Accounts states those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of NVs continuity for the period of 12 months after the preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The statements in this paragraph are not statements in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Furthermore, NV is required to make a statement concerning corporate governance as referred to in article 2a of the decree on the content of the management report Besluit inhoud bestuursverslag the Decree.
The information required to be included in this corporate governance statement as described in articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree can be found on our website.
com corporategovernance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Report 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED All senior executives and senior financial officers have declared their THE UNITED STATES understanding of and compliance with Unilevers Code of Business Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
Principles and the related Code Policies.
No waiver from any provision As such, both companies must comply with the requirements of US legislation, regulations enacted under US securities laws and the of the Code of Business Principles or Code Policies was granted in 2018 to any of the persons falling within the scope of the SEC Listing Standards of the NYSE, that are applicable to foreign private requirements.
The Code of Business Principles and related Code issuers, copies of which are available on their websites.
Policies are published on our website.
We are substantially compliant with the Listing Standards of the NYSE applicable to foreign private issuers except as set out below.
Risk Management and Control: Following a review by the Disclosure Committee, Audit Committee and Boards, the CEO and the CFO We are required to disclose any significant ways in which our concluded that the design and operation of the Unilever Groups corporate governance practices differ from those typically followed disclosure controls and procedures, including those defined in the by US companies listed on the NYSE.
Our corporate governance United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a 15 e, practices are primarily based on the requirements of the UK Listing as at 31 December 2018 were effective.
Rules, the UK Code and the Dutch Code but substantially conform Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of to those required of US companies listed on the NYSE.
The only significant way in which our corporate governance practices differ 2002 to report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting.
This requirement is reported on within the section entitled from those followed by domestic companies under Section 303A Corporate Governance Standards of the NYSE is that the NYSE rules Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting on page 156. require that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions thereto, with In February 2017, the Group received a public potential offer by The certain limited exemptions.
The UK Listing Rules require shareholder Kraft Heinz Company for $50 per share in respect of all of NV and approval of equity-compensation plans only if new or treasury PLC shares.
shares are issued for the purpose of satisfying obligations under the plan or if the plan is a long-term incentive plan in which a director www.
Amendments to plans approved by shareholders governance  generally only require approval if they are to the advantage of the plan participants.
Furthermore, Dutch law and NVs Articles of Association require shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans only if the Executive Directors are able to participate in such plans.
Under Dutch law, shareholder approval is not required for material revisions to equity-compensation plans unless the Executive Directors participate in a plan and the plan does not contain its own procedure for revisions.
Attention is drawn to the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 43 to 45.
In addition, further details about our corporate governance are provided in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever which can be found on our website.
gov 42 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
