REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE in written terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the ATTENDANCE Committee, taking into account relevant legislation and recommended good practice.
The terms of reference are contained within The John Rishton Chair 8 8 Governance of Unilever which is available on our website at Nils Andersen 8 8 www.
The Committees Judith Hartmann 8 8 responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following matters, This table shows the membership of the Committee together with and relevant issues are brought to the attention of the Boards: their attendance at meetings during 2018.
If Directors are unable to oversight of the integrity of Unilevers financial statements: attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any review of Unilevers quarterly and annual financial statements agenda items with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the including clarity and completeness of disclosure and approval number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
of the quarterly trading statements for quarter 1 and quarter 3: oversight of risk management and internal control arrangements: oversight of compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: oversight of the external auditors performance, objectivity, HIGHLIGHTS OF 2018 qualifications and independence: the approval process of non-audit Annual Report and Accounts services: recommendation to the Boards of the nomination of the Tax regulations, provisions and disclosure external auditors for shareholder approval: and approval of their Information security, including Cyber, and IT resilience fees, refer to note 25 on page 126: Supply Chain flexibility and continuity of supply the performance of the internal audit function: and Accounting for significant Mergers and Acquisitions approval of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE expense policy Acquisition Review and the review of Executive Director expenses.
Spreads Disposal In order to help the Committee meet its oversight responsibilities, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers each year management organise knowledge sessions for the and IFRS 16 Leases Committee on subject areas within its remit.
In 2018, a session was held with Unilever Management on the acquisition of the Dollar Shave Club, which included a briefing on the acquisition case, recent performance, and key learnings that might be relevant for PRIORITIES FOR 2019 future acquisitions.
In addition, John Rishton visited the Indian MCO Tax regulations, provisions and disclosure in Mumbai, where the developments of routes to market, controls Information Security, including Cyber, and IT resilience automation and centralisation were reviewed and discussed in IFRS 16 Leases detail.
Mr Rishton also visited the Indian finance and IT hub Accounting for significant Mergers and Acquisitions in Bangalore where progress being made on monitoring systems of potential cyber threat and access controls were reviewed.
MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE HOW THE COMMITTEE HAS DISCHARGED The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent Non-Executive ITS RESPONSIBILITIES Directors with a minimum requirement of three such members.
It is During the year, the Committees principal activities were as follows: chaired by John Rishton and the other members are Nils Andersen and Judith Hartmann.
For the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 John Rishton is the Audit Committees financial expert.
The FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Boards have satisfied themselves that the current members of the The Committee reviewed prior to publication the quarterly financial Audit Committee are competent in financial matters and have recent press releases together with the associated internal quarterly reports and relevant experience.
Other attendees at Committee meetings from the Chief Financial Officer and the Disclosure Committee and, or part thereof were the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor, EVP with respect to the half-year and full-year results, the external Financial Control, Risk Management, Pensions & Sustainability, auditors reports.
It also reviewed this Annual Report and Accounts Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary and the external auditors.
and the Annual Report on Form 20-F 2018.
These reviews incorporated Throughout the year the Committee members periodically met without the accounting policies and significant judgements and estimates others present and also held separate private sessions with the Chief underpinning the financial statements as disclosed within note 1 Financial Officer, Chief Auditor and the external auditors, allowing on pages 79 to 82.
Particular attention was paid to the following the Committee to discuss any issues in more detail.
significant issues in relation to the financial statements: revenue recognition estimation of discounts, incentives on sales made during the year, refer to note 2 on pages 82 to 84: direct tax provisions, refer to note 6 on pages 94 to 96: and indirect tax provisions and contingent liabilities, refer to note 19 on page 120.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Report 43 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The external auditors have agreed the list of significant issues INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION discussed by the Audit Committee.
In addition to these risks KPMG, as The Committee reviewed Corporate Audits audit plan for the year required by auditing standards, also consider the risk of management and agreed its budget and resource requirements.
It reviewed interim override of controls.
Nothing has come to either our attention or the and year-end summary reports and managements response.
The attention of KPMG to suggest any material suspected or actual fraud Committee engaged an independent third party to perform an relating to management override of controls.
effectiveness review of the function.
The review concluded that the function is compliant with the IIA Chartered Institute of Internal For each of the above areas the Committee considered the key facts Auditors Standards in all material aspects.
The Committee also and judgements outlined by management.
Members of management carried out an evaluation of the performance of the internal audit attended the section of the meeting of the Committee where their function and was satisfied with the effectiveness of the function.
The item was discussed to answer any questions or challenges posed Committee met independently with the Chief Auditor during the year by the Committee.
The issues were also discussed with the external and discussed the results of the audits performed during the year.
auditors and further information can be found on pages 67 to 74.
The Committee was satisfied that there are relevant accounting policies AUDIT OF THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS in place in relation to these significant issues and management have KPMG, Unilevers external auditors and independent registered public correctly applied these policies.
accounting firm, reported in depth to the Committee on the scope and At the request of the Boards the Committee undertook to: outcome of the annual audit, including their audit of internal controls review the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the US SarbanesOxley Act of 2002.
Their reports included audit and accounting matters, of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements: and governance and control, and accounting developments.
assess whether the business was viable in accordance with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The The Committee held independent meetings with the external auditors assessment included a review of the principal risks facing Unilever, during the year and reviewed, agreed, discussed and challenged their potential impact, how they were being managed, together with their audit plan, including their assessment of the financial reporting a discussion as to the appropriate period for the assessment.
The risk profile of the Group.
The Committee discussed the views Committee recommended to the Boards that there is a reasonable and conclusions of KPMG regarding managements treatment of expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation significant transactions and areas of judgement during the year.
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period The Committee considered these views and comments and is satisfied consistent with the period of the strategic plan of the assessment.
with the treatment in the financial statements.
At the request of the Boards the Committee also considered whether EXTERNAL AUDITORS the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 was fair, balanced and KPMG have been the Groups auditors since 2014 and shareholders understandable and whether it provided the necessary information approved their re-appointment as the Groups external auditors at the for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, 2018 AGMs.
On the recommendation of the Committee, the Directors business model and strategy.
The Committee was satisfied that, taken will be proposing the re-appointment of KPMG at the AGMs in May 2019. as a whole, the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 is fair, balanced and understandable.
Both Unilever and KPMG have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the external auditors objectivity and independence RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL could be compromised, such as audit partner rotation and the ARRANGEMENTS restriction on non-audit services that the external auditors can The Committee reviewed Unilevers overall approach to risk management perform as described below.
Both the KPMG partners with overall and control, and its processes, outcomes and disclosure.
It reviewed: responsibility for the audit of NV and PLC will rotate off the assignment the Controllers Quarterly Risk and Control Status Report, including after completion of the 2018 year-end financial statements.
One of the Code of Business Principles cases relating to frauds and financial new partners already has experience of the Unilever global audit, and the other partner underwent an induction programme through much crimes and significant issues received through the Unilever Code of this year-end to ensure a smooth transition.
KPMG has issued a Support Line: formal letter to the Committee outlining the general procedures to the 2018 corporate risks for which the Audit Committee had oversight safeguard independence and objectivity, disclosing the relationship and the proposed 2019 corporate risks identified by the ULE: with the Company and confirming their audit independence.
managements improvements to reporting and internal financial control arrangements, through further automation and centralisation: Each year, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external processes related to information security, including cyber security: audit process which includes discussing feedback from the members tax planning, and related risk management: of the Committee and stakeholders at all levels across Unilever.
treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging: and Interviews are also held with key senior management within both litigation and regulatory investigations.
The Committee reviewed the application of the requirements under Section The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, audit related and 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to internal controls non-audit related services provided by KPMG and compliance with over financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the annual Unilevers documented approach, which prescribes in detail the financial plan and Unilevers dividend policy and dividend proposals.
types of engagements, listed below, for which the external auditors can be used: During 2018 the Committee continued its oversight of the independent statutory audit services, including audit of subsidiaries: assurance work that is performed on a number of our USLP metrics audit related engagements services that involve attestation, selected on the basis of their materiality to the USLP.
assurance or certification of factual information that may be In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk required by external parties: management, internal control and the financial statements, the non-audit related services work that our external auditors Committee met regularly with senior members of management are best placed to undertake, which may include: and is satisfied with the key judgements taken.
audit and assurance certificates statements bond issue comfort letters internal control reviews.
44 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Unilever has for many years maintained a policy which prescribes in detail the types of engagements for which the external auditors can be used and prohibits several types of engagements, including: bookkeeping or similar services: design and or implementation of systems or processes related to financial information or risk management: valuation, actuarial and legal services: internal audit: broker, dealer, investment adviser or investment bank services: transfer pricing advisory services staff secondments of any kind: Payroll tax: Customs duties: and Tax services except in exceptional and rare circumstances such as where they are the only firm able to provide the service.
All audit related engagements over 250,000 and non-audit related engagements over 100,000 required specific advance approval by the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee further approved all engagements below these levels which have been authorised by the EVP Financial Control, Risk Management, Pension & Sustainability.
These authorities are reviewed regularly and, where necessary, updated in the light of internal developments, external developments and best practice.
Since the appointment of KPMG in 2014 to 2016 the level of non-audit fees has been below 7% of the annual audit fee.
In 2017 and 2018 the level of non-audit fees has been higher at 41% and 31% respectively due to assurance work relating to the disposal of our Spreads business and the Simplification project.
The Committee confirms that the Group is in compliance with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The last tender for the audit of the annual accounts was performed in 2013.
EVALUATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE As part of the internal Board evaluation carried out in 2018, the Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own performance in 2018.
While overall the Committee members concluded that the Committee is performing effectively, the Committee agreed that to further enhance its effectiveness it needed to ensure the Committee members continued to develop their knowledge of the Groups operations which would involve further knowledge sessions and site visits.
John Rishton Chair of the Audit Committee Nils Andersen Judith Hartmann Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Report 45
