Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 57 Audit Committee Report CHAIRS About the Committee Throughout the year, Attendance Committee membership during 2018 INTRODUCTION the Committee John Hirst Chair 4 4 Dear Shareholder, continued to focus Martin Broadhurst 4 4 Throughout the year, the Committee continued to focus on the integrity of onthe integrity of Geeta Gopalan 4 4 financial reporting, internal controls Victoria Hull 4 4 and risk management processes.
financial reporting, Sir Robert Walmsley 4 4 internal controls and The Boards report on the systems of internal control and their effectiveness can be found in The Chair of the Committee has the recent and relevant risk management the Corporate Governance Report on page 53. financial and accounting experience required by the Code.
He is supported in his role by the other members of the Committee who have a wide range of business experience processes.
An assessment of the Groups principal and expertise.
risks and uncertainties can be found on JOHN HIRST pages 3442and the going concern Chair of the Audit Committee and long-term viability statements can be found on pages 42 and 43.
The Groups risk management framework has been a particular area of focus during 2018.
CONSTITUTION With the position of Chief Risk Officer being vacant throughout 2018, the Audit Committee Written terms of reference of the has monitored the compensating activities of Committee include all matters the Executive Team and the work of the Risk recommended by the Code.
Owners at Business Unit level to ensure that The terms of reference were reviewed appropriate levels of focus and proactivity during 2018. have been maintained.
Evolving areas of risk These terms of reference are available In addition to the members of the Committee, have been reviewed with specific assessments onthe Groups website regular attendees included the Chair, Chief being undertaken on Brexit and innovation www.
com investorExecutive Officer and the Group Finance risk.
Regular reports from PwC who provide centre.
The General Counsel and Company the Groups internal audit function on the The Board is kept fully informed of the Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
testing of the Groups control activities Committees work and the minutes of have indicated that the business control each Committee meeting are circulated to Deloitte is the Groups external auditor and is environments continue to show improvements.
represented at all scheduled Committee meetings, and the partner from PwC attends We continue to work to ensure that our those meetings at which key findings from financial reporting is accurate and complies Internal Audit reports were reviewed by the with emerging regulatory requirements.
During 2018, the Chair of the We monitored the impacts of IFRS 9, Committee met with Deloitte and PwC in the IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 on our financial absence of Executive and Non-Executive reporting as well as scrutinising the Directors.
In addition, the Committee met with approach taken by management to the key areas of judgement in preparing the Deloitte without Executive Directors present, financial statements see the section on where Deloitte reported on its views of the Significant Judgements on page 59.
Groups financial management process and any matters that they thought should be brought to the attention of the Committee.
JOHN HIRST Chair of the Audit Committee Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 58 Financial statements Audit Committee Report continued Activity during 2018 Financial statements and accounting policies Review managements significant issues and judgements.
The Committee considered and recommended to the Board for Review the Groups financial statements and the formal approval of the annual and interim financial statements and related announcement on the Groups financial performance.
Review the Groups going concern and long-term viability The Committee discussed the key accounting policies and practices statementassumptions.
It also reviewed the key accounting judgements and matters that required the exercise of significant management judgement see section on Significant Judgements on page 59.
The Committee reviewed the underlying assumptions and the rigour of the testing underpinning the going concern statement and long-term viability statement which are set out on pages 42 and 43 prior to approving them.
Internal controls and financial control frameworks Assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control The Committee considered reports on the internal control and risk management.
environment and risk management and their effectiveness.
The Committee discussed the Internal Controls Status Report which summarised the results from the six-monthly divisional internal control review meetings.
The Committee reviewed the principal risks, the Groups risk appetite and risk metrics and considered their alignment to the achievement of Ultras strategic objectives.
An assessment was undertaken of the key controls in place and future planned management actions to address the risks.
The Committee considered reports on known or suspected fraud.
Further details of the approach to risk management can be found on pages 34 and 35.
Internal audit Review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
Following its review of the adequacy of the internal control Discuss control issues identified by Internal Audit.
framework for the Group, the Committee agreed the Internal Audit plan for the year.
The Committee considered summary reports from the risk-based and rotational reviews and progress reports on the implementation of remedial actions, noting the progress made in the control environment within the Groups businesses.
It also considered the controls around the ERP Programme rollout, and the results of a review across a number of the businesses assessing compliance against the contract management policies.
External audit, engagement and policy Review the scope and effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee considered Deloittes external audit planning report Negotiating the terms of the external auditors appointment, the prior to the commencement of the 2018 audit.
The Committee received reports from the external auditor on Supervising any audit tender process.
theoutcomes of their audit process and the external audit plan forthe year.
The Committee discussed Deloittes letter to management and management responses to that letter.
The Committee reviewed the external auditors engagement policy, independence and effectiveness, and audit and non-audit fees.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 59 Significant judgements The Audit Committee considered the areas of most significant accounting judgement and disclosure both prior to and during the course of the 2018 year-end external audit.
Judgement area Committee assessment Valuation and impairment testing of goodwill The Committee reviewed the methodology and assumptions used to determine the balance and intangible assets sheet carrying values, including the discount rates and value in use determinations.
The Committee considered the recoverability of the goodwill relating to the C2ISR CGU grouping, and sensitivity disclosures made, in light of the development contract cost overruns at Herley in the year.
The Committee also considered the implications of the disposal of the Airport Systems business in relation to the Infrastructure CGU goodwill.
Accounting updates IFRS 9 Financial Updates on the implementation of the new IFRS requirements and their impact on the Instruments : IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts financial statements and disclosure were presented and considered by the Committee.
with Customers : IFRS 16 Leases Long-term contract accounting The Committee considered the judgements taken in the forecast cost to complete estimates for significant contracts.
Pension scheme obligations The Committee considered the current funding level of the pension scheme and the liabilities of the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme, and the impact of the High Court ruling in October 2018 against Lloyds Banking Group that impacts many UK businesses with regards to Guaranteed Minimum Pensions GMP Equalisation.
Financial control Operational controls The Group has in place internal control and risk management The Group Operating Manual sets out the mandatory Group policies and arrangements in relation to the Groups financial reporting processes and procedures to be followed and is communicated widely across the Group.
the preparation of its consolidated accounts.
The arrangements include procedures to ensure the maintenance of records which accurately and The Managing Directors and Presidents, the Finance Directors and the Vice fairly reflect transactions to enable the preparation of financial statements Presidents Finance of each business are required to give a formal written in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
They also representation to the Board each year.
This representation confirms that require reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate they accept responsibility for maintaining effective internal controls in line monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
with the Group Operating Manual and that they have disclosed full details of any fraud or suspected fraud within their business.
When preparing and reviewing financial information, the businesses do not work to a materiality threshold.
All variances judged to be significant The Committees focus for 2019 are investigated and explained.
In addition to the annual routine matters for consideration, the main areas of focus for the Committee for 2019 will be: In addition, there is a Group-wide process specifically for monitoring Focusing on the risks highlighted in the 2018 internal audit.
Management has delegated control ownership Overseeing the transfer of GDPR processes from a change programme to each of the businesses and established a framework for reporting to business as usual.
whether the controls are designed and operating effectively.
Every six months, Divisional Internal Control Meeting DICM meetings are attended Internal audit by the Group Finance Director, the Divisional Finance Director and by PwC is appointed by Ultra as its internal auditor.
The use of an experienced Internal Audit.
external firm provides independent assurance on the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
A risk and rotational based approach is taken by At the DICM meetings, the internal controls processes and issues for each the Company in determining its Internal Audit plan, thereby ensuring that business are discussed.
These include: the plan is clearly linked to the Companys strategy and is flexible enough Self-assessment against the Group Operating Manual.
to highlight and address emerging risks.
The Internal Audit plan and Outstanding Internal and External Audit recommendations.
resources are considered and monitored by the Committee, together with Review of segregation of duties.
all internal control findings and remedial actions.
All newly acquired, individually operating businesses are audited Summary results from these reviews are included in the Internal Controls withinayear of their acquisition date.
Where required, additional Improvement Status Report, which is presented to the Audit Committee auditsare identified during the year in response to changing priorities bi-annually.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 60 Financial statements Audit Committee Report continued The lead Partner from PwC reports directly to the Chair of the Committee Deloitte was appointed in 2002.
A new partner was appointed in 2016. and presents the findings to the Committee biannually.
Progress reports on The Committee considers that for an organisation of the size and follow-up remedial actions are reported regularly to the Committee.
PwC complexity of Ultra, the tendering of external audit must be well planned confirms whether appropriate action has been taken to address the risks to ensure that the Group complies with best practice corporate governance when they next visit the business concerned.
as well as ensuring the Group receives a high-quality, efficient and effective external audit service.
The effectiveness of Internal Audit is assessed by the review of Internal Audit reports, meetings with the Chair of the Committee without The Committee considers that it would be appropriate to conduct an management being present and views from senior management and the External Audit tender by no later than 2023 at which point Deloitte would Group Finance Director.
be precluded from being Ultras external auditor.
The Company is in compliance with the requirements of the Statutory Audit Services for Large External auditor Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender The performance, effectiveness and independence of the Companys Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 and the external auditor, Deloitte, is reviewed annually by the Committee.
There are no contractual obligations that Committee received a briefing by Deloitte on the firms policies on these restrict the Committees choice of external auditor.
matters and noted that such policies are subject to external monitoring by the Audit Quality Review Team, which is a part of the FRCs Conduct The auditors engagement letter and the scope of the years annual audit Division.
The FRCs Audit Quality Review Team selected to review the audit cycle is discussed in advance by the Committee, ensuring that any changes of Ultras 2017 Annual Report as part of the 2018 annual inspection of in circumstances arising since the previous year are taken into account.
The focus of the review and their reporting is on identifying With respect to non-audit services undertaken by Deloitte, Ultra has a areas where improvements are required rather than highlighting areas policy to ensure that the provision of such services do not impair Deloittes performing to or above the expected level.
The Chair of the Audit independence or objectivity.
Committee received a full copy of the findings and discussed these with Deloitte.
The Audit Committee confirms that there were no significant It is the policy of the Group that non-audit services provided by Ultras areas for improvement identified with the report, or any material issues in external auditor are restricted to regulatory reporting, consultancy services relation to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee is also satisfied associated with financial restructuring, responding to new reporting that there is nothing within the report that might have a bearing on the requirements, due diligence assessments of potential acquisitions and audit appointment.
In addition, the Committee considered the questions contained in a The Group Finance Director has authority to commission the external questionnaire issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland auditor to undertake non-audit work where there is a specific project with in October 2007 to assess performance, effectiveness and independence.
a cost that is not expected to exceed 50,000.
Any individual assignments with an estimated fee in excess of 50,000 must be referred in advance to The effectiveness of the External Audit process is assessed by the the Chair of the Committee for his approval.
The non-audit work has to be Committee, which meets regularly throughout the year with the senior reported to the Committee at its next meeting.
Before commissioning audit partner and senior audit managers.
Key to the overall effectiveness of non-audit services, the Group Finance Director or the Chair of the the process is that both the Company and the auditor make the other Committee, as appropriate, must ensure that the external auditor is aware of accounting and financial reporting issues as and when they arise, satisfied that there is no issue regarding independence and objectivity and and this exchange is not limited to the period in which formal audit and that other potential providers are adequately considered.
In providing a review engagements take place.
non-audit service, the external auditor should not: audit their own work: make management decisions for the Company: create a mutuality of The Committee believes that sufficient and appropriate information is interest: or find themselves in the role of advocate for Ultra.
The policy for obtained to form an overall judgement on the effectiveness of the external engagement of the external auditor to undertake non-audit work will be audit process.
The Committee concluded that Deloitte had been reviewed during 2019. sufficiently transparent and incisive and that the audits had been effective.
In addition, the Committee concluded that Deloitte was both independent Ultra has adopted a policy which restricts on non-audit fees arising from and objective and that the reappointment of Deloitte as external auditor EU audit legislation.
From 2020, the maximum non-audit fees that the should be recommended to the shareholders.
statutory auditor can bill in any one year is set at 70% of the average of theaudit fees billed over the preceding three years.
All non-audit services Accordingly, a resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be put to shareholders provided by Deloitte in the year will be tracked relative to this cap.
at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee considers that certain non-audit services should be The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte on the Groups audit is provided by the external auditor, because its existing knowledge of the subject to a strict policy of regular rotation such that there is a change in business makes it the most efficient and effective way for non-audit this role at least once every five years.
This is in accordance with services to be carried out.
In 2017 Deloitte provided non-audit services professional practice guidelines.
related to the Sparton acquisition.
Being a Class 1 transaction, a significant amount of non-audit work was required and the scope and fees for the work was agreed by the Audit Committee prior to commencement.
The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of audit and non-audit services are shown on page 99 of the Financial Statements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 61 Fraud The Internal Audit process, carried out by PwC, described on page 59, and the Groups internal control framework help to protect the Group against fraud.
Regular business reviews take place at all businesses, in which detailed balance sheet and cash flow reviews are carried out by therelevant Divisional Managing and Financial Directors.
In addition, theGroup Finance Director and Chief Executive Officer review the performance of the businesses with the Divisional team monthly.
Significant differences between forecast and reported financial results arehighlighted and require explanation by the business unit concerned.
The internal control framework that is in place is supplemented by the External Audit process which represents a second independent review of controls and procedures, with selective transaction testing of higher risk areas.
There is a fraud reporting process in place.
All cases of fraud would be immediately investigated and the situation reported to the Committee and the Board.
Whistleblowing An independently hosted Employee Hotline EthicsPoint is used to provide a process for reporting ethical concerns.
Such concerns can be filed anonymously.
Employees are informed of this process through posters which are translated into local languages and through the Group intranet.
Employee concerns are forwarded to the Senior Independent Director or, in the case of issues covered by US security legislation, to the Chair of the Security Committee of either Ultras Special Security Agreement Company or Ultras Proxy Board Company, as appropriate.
During 2018, two reports were filed via this system one for an HR matter and one an unsolicited invitation to a conference.
Each of these reports were reviewed as received, responses were provided promptly via the system, and the matters were subsequently closed.
Anti-bribery Ultra has anti-bribery policies and procedures in place, which it continues to review on a regular basis, and update as required.
All Directors and employees are required to sign Ultras code of conduct on anti-bribery and commit to act in accordance with it.
All new-starters at Ultra are also required to undertake anti-bribery training, and then subsequently on a regular basis.
Additional anti-bribery training is given as appropriate: it is intended that focused anti-bribery training will be delivered across the Ultra Group during the year ahead.
The Group intranet contains a statement regarding compliance with Ultras anti-bribery policies.
