Corporate governance BOARD STATEMENTS Under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the Board is required to make a number of statements.
These statements are set out below: Requirement Board statement More information Compliance with the Code The Board confirms that, in its view, the Details on how the Company complies with the The Unite Group plc is listed on the Company has applied the main principles Code can be found throughout this Corporate London Stock Exchange and subject and has complied with all of the provisions Governance section of the Annual Report.
to the requirements of the UK Corporate set out in the Code during 2018.
The Board is required to comply with the provisions of the Code The Board acknowledges the new UK Corporate and where it does not, explain the reasons Governance Code will apply from 1 January 2019 for non-compliance.
and during 2018 reviewed how this would apply to the Company and Board activity.
The Board expects to be able to comply with the new Code with effect from 1 January 2019 and will report on this in the next Annual Report.
Going Concern The Directors are satisfied that the Group has More details on the Going Concern statement can The Board is required to confirm that the adequate resources to continue to be operational be found on page 67.
Group has adequate resources to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future and in operation for the foreseeable future.
therefore have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Groups 2018 financial statements.
Viability Statement The Directors have a reasonable expectation that More details on the Viability statement can be The Board is required to assess the viability of the Group will be able to continue in operation found on page 27. the Company taking into account the current and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the position and the potential impact of the three-year period to December 2021. current position and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 28 to 31.
Principal risks facing the Group A robust assessment of the principal risks facing Information around key risks and risk management The Board is required to confirm that a robust the Company was undertaken during the year, processes can be found on pages 24 to 31, and assessment of the principal risks facing the including those that would threaten its business on page 70 of the Audit Committee report.
Company has been carried out and should model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
describe those risks and explain how they The significant risks facing the Company, and how are being managed or mitigated.
these are mitigated, are set out on pages 28 to 31.
Risk management and internal control The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness Details on the systems of risk management and The Board is required to monitor the Companys of the systems of risk management and internal internal control can be found on pages 24 to 27. risk management and internal control systems control during the year, and considers that there is and, at least annually, carry out a review of a sound system of internal control which accords their effectiveness.
with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Directors consider, to the best of each See the Audit Committee report on pages 68 to 71 The Board should confirm that it considers persons knowledge and belief, that the and the Statement of Directors responsibilities on the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, page 99. balanced and understandable and provides balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
performance, business model and strategy.
58 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018
