Corporate governance Refreshing our Non-Executive Directors and our EFFECTIVENESS: leadership pipeline development has been the NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Committees 2018 focus.
Nomination Committee Committee overview Composition Chairs overview The Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive The Committees focus this year was on the Directors.
The members of the Committee are set appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors, out on page 60 of the Corporate Governance which led to the successful appointment of Ilaria Statement.
At the invitation of the Committee, del Beato and Richard Akers.
The Committee any other Director or other person may be also focused on our diversity and inclusion invited to attend meetings of the Committee if initiatives, together with talent development considered desirable in assisting the Committee and succession planning.
The Committee in fulfilling its role.
continued with its approach of mapping the businesss strategic objectives and growth ambitions against our wider leadership and Role high-performing, high-potential individuals.
The role of the Committee is to: Phil White Where gaps have been identified, the Chairman Committee ensures a suitable programme Ensure that appropriate procedures are is in place to deliver our leaders of tomorrow adopted and followed in the nomination, with the right skills and experience.
selection, training, evaluation and re-election of Directors and for succession planning, with Succession planning for the Chairman, led by due regard in all cases to the benefits of Elizabeth McMeikan our Senior Independent diversity on the Board, including gender Director, will be a specific focus for 2019.
Regularly review the structure, size, composition, skills and experience of the Board and to make Phil White recommendations with regard to any Chair Nomination Committee adjustments considered necessary 27 February 2019 When it is agreed that an appointment to the Board should be made, lead a selection process that is formal, rigorous and transparent Be responsible for identifying, reviewing and recommending candidates for appointment to the Board.
Activities in 2018 Review of Board composition The Committee reviewed the Boards composition to ensure it has the correct balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
Recognising that the average tenure of the Non-Executive Directors was just over six years and to help ensure orderly succession planning the Committee believed it was timely to consider appointing two new Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee led a recruitment process resulting in the appointment of Richard Akers in September 2018 and Ilaria del Beato in December 2018.
Russell Reynolds led the search for these Non-Executive Directors.
Russell Reynolds has no other connection with the Company.
Succession planning As per prior years, the Committee reviewed the Boards succession planning, to ensure we have a deep talent pipeline for future Board appointments.
As an integral part of our executive succession planning, the Committee oversees the Senior Leadership Development Programme part of a broader Skills Development Programme to ensure we are growing and nurturing our talent and developing our high-performers, high-potential.
66 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 In 2019, we will focus on: Board diversity Accountability The Board recognises that diversity, equality Our Womens Network followed by further and inclusivity at Board level and throughout Internal control networks as appropriate the Group are critical components of our The Board has overall responsibility for the long-term sustainability.
We are proud of Groups system of internal control.
However, Growth of our Diversity in Action Group the diversity of the Group as a whole, an such a system is designed to achieve Continuing our Focus groups and Pulse organisation made up of people, who like business objectives and can only provide Surveys across the organisation to understand our customers, are from many different reasonable and not absolute assurance more about our employees needs backgrounds and countries and have against material misstatement.
diverse experiences, perspectives and skills.
Use of specialist job boards to support The provisions of the Code in respect of internal sourcing diverse candidates Beyond the boardroom and within Unite more controls require that Directors review and monitor Further recruitment training for all generally, we continued to review our approach all controls, including operational, compliance hiring managers to diversity, equality and inclusion during 2018. and risk management as well as financial controls.
We recognise this as a key building block of our Through reports from the Boards Committees, the Continue to work with Stonewall, Business People strategy and that the UK workforce and Groups Risk Committee and the Groups Business in the Community and the Business our students are increasingly diverse.
To remain Unit Boards the Operations Board and Property Disability Forum competitive, we need to develop a diverse, Board, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness Work Equality Index completed and equal and inclusive workplace which will in of the Groups system of internal controls for the recommended actions taken.
turn best represent and support our customers period covered by the Annual Report and in creating a Home for Success.
Accounts and has concluded that such controls We have set diversity targets for our People were effective throughout such period.
with 40% women in leadership roles by 2020.
During 2018, our diversity and inclusivity initiatives We are currently at 37%.
focused on: Further information on the Companys internal control framework is set out in the Audit Committee As regards to the Board itself, the Nomination Launching our Womens Network report on pages 68 to 71.
The Board delegates Committee considered during 2018 whether certain of its duties, responsibilities and powers to Developing our Diversity in Action Group it wanted to set specific targets for female the Audit Committee, so that these can receive launched in 2017 and led by, and for, representation on the Board.
The Committee suitably focused attention, but in so doing the employees.
Widening our recruitment believes the current focus of diversity and Audit Committee acts on behalf of the full Board, channels to bring in increased diversity inclusivity should be on the Group as a whole, and the matters reviewed and managed by with the development of a diverse and inclusive Continued with our annual Diversity, Equality the Audit Committee remain the responsibility talent pipeline incorporating the initiatives and Inclusion e-Learning for all employees of the Directors taken as a whole.
The Committee is not currently Ensuring all customer-facing teams are considering setting diversity targets for the Board Going Concern diverse and appropriately representative itself, believing this is not necessarily in the best After making enquiries, the Directors have of our local community and our students interests of the Group and its stakeholders.
a reasonable expectation that the Group However, gender diversity, along with all other Actively supporting our high-potential and the Company have adequate resources aspects of diversity and inclusivity, will be female employees to continue in operational existence for the considered, along with its more general remit foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue Ensuring all leadership roles have diverse to consider the balance of skills, experience, to adopt the going concern basis in preparing candidates on the shortlist independence and knowledge when reviewing the accounts.
Worked with Stonewall, Business in the Community and the Business Disability Risk management Read more about Forum to raise our awareness Diversity and inclusion on pages 45 and 46 The Board, when setting the strategy, also determines the nature and extent of the Reviewing our HR policies and procedures principal risks and its risk appetite in implementing to be more inclusive with related linethis strategy.
Each year, the Board reviews the manager training effectiveness of the Groups risk management Planning to support our non-UK EU employees systems and how the Board did this during 2018 as part of our Brexit readiness planning is set out on pages 24 to 31.
Training all recruiting managers and the resourcing team on unconscious bias, Business model to ensure that we are recruiting the best For a description of the Groups Business Model, person for the job.
see pages 12 and 13 of the Strategic Report.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 67
