Corporate governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Phil White Richard Smith Joe Lister Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer N R H Relevant skills, experience and contribution Relevant skills, experience and contribution Relevant skills, experience and contribution Phil has served as Chairman since May 2009.
He was Chief Richard was appointed Chief Executive in June 2016.
Prior Joe joined Unite in 2002 having qualified as a chartered Executive of National Express Group plc from 1997 to 2006 to this, he was Unites Managing Director of Operations accountant with .
He was and led the business through growth in the UK and from 2011, a role that involved Richard leading the service appointed as Chief Financial Officer in January 2008 overseas.
He gained extensive executive experience in the provided to our customers, and managing maintenance having previously held a variety of roles including public-transport sector during the period of deregulation and and facilities management across the Groups portfolio.
Investment Director and Corporate Finance Director.
He is the Non-Executive Chair of Lookers plc Joe is a non-executive director for Helical PLC.
as well as a Non-Executive Director of VP plc.
Richard joined Unite as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in 2010.
Prior to this, he spent 18 years in the transport industry, Joe continues to lead the design and delivery of the Phil brings his wealth of experience as a Chair of FTSE and working in the UK, Europe, Australia and North America.
Groups sustainable growth and financial performance.
other companies to Unite, ensuring best practice in board Richard spent 13 years at National Express Group where Together with Richard, Joe ensures the development and effectiveness and corporate governance.
Within the he held a range of senior finance, strategy and operations communication of the Groups strategy with our investors.
Board, he helps ensure clarity, critical thinking, constructive roles, including Group Development Director and Chief In addition, from 2018, Joe has an expanded remit over debate and challenge and the running of an effective Financial Officer, North America.
Property and a critical role in developing and Board.
Externally, he ensures there is effective engagement strengthening the Groups University relationships.
with our investors over our strategy, long term sustainability Richard continues to lead the successful development, and corporate governance.
communication and implementation of the Groups strategy, providing clear and valued leadership and delivery of the Group KPIs.
His engagement with our investors helps ensure our strategy is well understood and valued.
This has translated into strong financial and share price performance during 2018 and helps ensure the Group is well-placed to carry this success into future years.
Ilaria del Beato Andrew Jones Ross Paterson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A N A H R N R N Relevant skills, experience and contribution Relevant skills, experience and contribution Relevant skills, experience and contribution Ilaria was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Andrew Jones was appointed as a Non-Executive Ross was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 2018.
She is CEO of Frasers Property UK, part Director in February 2013.
He is Chief Executive Officer September 2017.
He is Finance Director of Stagecoach of Frasers Property, a global real estate group.
Ilaria was of LondonMetric Property, following the 2013 merger of Group plc, and as a member of Stagecoachs Board is formerly CEO of GE Capital UK, a regulated Bank and London & Stamford and Metric.
Andrew was a co-founder responsible for finance, technology and compliance.
In corporate lender and led GE Capital Real Estate UK, of Metric and Chief Executive Officer since its inception in addition, he is a Non-Executive Director and the Audit a commercial real estate investor, developer and March 2010.
Andrews previous roles include Executive Committee Chair of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, lender.
Ilaria brings 30 years of experience in real estate, Director and Head of Retail at British Land.
He joined British and a member of the Business Policy Committee of the including asset management, investment and lending.
Land in 2005 following the acquisition of Pillar Property Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
where he was on the main Board, with responsibilities for Ilaria brings her extensive experience in real estate, their retail portfolio and the Hercules Unit Trust.
Ross contributes to Unites Board using his many years including asset management, investment and lending, to experience of managing finance in a complex the Group.
This experience will be vital to the Group as we Andrew is stepping down as a Director at the upcoming operational business like our own.
He also brings valued navigate the upcoming market uncertainties and Annual General Meeting after 6 years as a Non-Executive insight to innovation as we continue to enhance our increasing professionalization of the sector.
During his time with Unite, Andrew has brought his service offer to our student customers.
Ross uses his property acumen and experience to the Board and our financial and broader business experience as Chair broader business, helping the Group develop a constantly of the Audit Committee, helping oversee the Groups improving portfolio as well as helping the Groups financial rigour and delivery.
56 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Board committee key N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee H Health & Safety Committee R Remuneration Committee Chairman of committee Professor Sir Tim Wilson Elizabeth McMeikan Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director H A R N R N H Relevant skills, experience and contribution Relevant skills, experience and contribution Tim was appointed to the Board in December 2010.
Liz was appointed a Non-Executive Director in February He was appointed Knight Bachelor for services to Higher 2014.
She has significant experience in customer-focused Education and to business in the 2011 New Year Honours businesses Tesco and Colgate Palmolive, where she was list.
He is a strong advocate of the role of Universities in successful in driving growth through an understanding of economic development and is acknowledged as one customer needs and an innovative marketing approach.
of the leading thinkers in University-business collaboration.
He is the author of the  Wilson Liz is Senior Independent Director at FTSE 250 pub group Review of BusinessUniversity Collaboration, published JD Wetherspoon and Senior Independent Director and in March 2012.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at FlyBe plc.
She is also a Non-Executive Director at an import export Formerly Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hertfordshire, fruit and vegetable company, Fresca Group Ltd, and CH Tim served on the Board of the Higher Education Funding & Co Ltd, a privately-owned catering company.
Council for England HEFCE, was Deputy Chair of the CBI Innovation, Science and Technology Committee and a Liz brings her extensive consumer-focused experience, trustee of the Council for Industry and Higher Education both as an executive and also on the boards of other FTSE CIHE.
He has extensive experience in both UK and companies, to help oversee the design and development international Higher Education.
of our customer proposition and enhanced customer service.
As Senior Independent Director of Unite, Liz The Higher Education sector has undergone enormous supports the Chair in the effective running of the Board change in recent years and Tim brings his wealth of and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, she helps experience, insight and knowledge of the HE sector to the ensure the executive directors and broader senior Board and the broader business.
He also uses this hands-on leaderships remuneration is aligned to the long-term sector knowledge and experience to help oversee the sustainable success of the Group.
safety of our student customers and employees as Chair of the Health & Safety Committee.
Richard Akers Chris Szpojnarowicz Non-Executive Director Company Secretary N A R Relevant skills, experience and contribution Relevant skills, experience and contribution Richard was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Chris was appointed Company Secretary and Head September 2018.
From 1995 to 2014 Richard worked at Land of Legal in 2013, following General Counsel roles at GE, Securities plc, where he had various positions including as MTV Networks and other multinationals.
He was previously an Executive Director on the main board and Managing an M&A corporate and commercial lawyer at Clifford Director of Retail.
Richard has over 30 years experience in Chance and Baker McKenzie.
Chris uses his general the real estate industry, with a focus on retail.
He is currently counsel and corporate commercial legal experience to Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Health & fuse our corporate and risk governance with our business Safety and Remuneration Committees at Barratt activity.
In this way, Chris links his Company Secretary Developments Plc, a Non-Executive Director at Shaftesbury and governance leadership role with his legal and Plc and an Advisory Board Member at Battersea Power commercial experience.
Previously Richard was a Non-Executive Director at Emaar Malls PJSC.
Richard brings a wealth of real estate experience as both an executive and Non-Executive Director on the boards of FTSE companies.
This experience will be critical to help the Group manage change and uncertainty in the wider real estate sector as well as the broader economy.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 57
