Corporate governance LEADERSHIP To discharge this broader responsibility Partnerships Director, Group People Director Corporate culture and effectively, the Group needs to operate in an and Group Legal Director & Company Secretary governance leadership open, harmonious and transparent manner, among others presented to the Board.
The Group is home to c. 50,000 students during ensuring open communication between the a crucial stage of their personal development Board and senior leaders.
This is why various This direct access to management opens dialogue and with Universities right across the UK.
The members of the senior leadership team regularly beyond the boardroom.
Additionally, with Board Board has ultimate responsibility to Unites present to the Board.
During 2018, the Chief meetings taking place in cities across the UK, shareholders for all the Groups activities as Customer Officer, Group Property Director, the Board visits both new developments and well as a broader responsibility extending Strategy & Portfolio Performance Director, existing properties and meets with our Operations to environmental and social issues.
Corporate Affairs Director, Head of Digital, teams.
This gives it a grounded insight into the Area Managers, Funds Director representing implementation of our overall business strategy.
our various co-investment vehicles, University Board structure Nomination Audit Health & Safety Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Chair: Phil White Chair: Ross Paterson Chair: Sir Tim Wilson Chair: Elizabeth McMeikan Andrew Jones Sir Tim Wilson Richard Smith Andrew Jones Elizabeth McMeikan Richard Akers Elizabeth McMeikan Phil White Sir Tim Wilson Ilaria del Beato Ilaria del Beato Sir Tim Wilson Ross Paterson Ross Paterson Richard Akers Richard Akers Ilaria del Beato Board Unite Executive Unite Operations Board Unite Property Board Risk Committee Committee 60 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Meetings take place throughout the UK, leaders throughout the Group and helps build a How the Board operates often at Universities, so the Board can meet culture of openness and directness.
In addition, The Board has an annual operating rhythm with Vice-Chancellors and learn about their external experts are also invited to present to the an agenda of items for the forthcoming year experiences with Unite, their accommodation Board such as University Vice-Chancellors and built around our strategic objectives.
The Boards requirements more generally and broader property valuers to give the Directors a broader meetings are split between strategy considered developments in the Higher Education sector.
in light of emerging risks and the approval of specific investments above certain thresholds Senior leaders are regularly invited to attend Details of the number of Board and Committees and routine operational, property and financial meetings and present to the Board.
This provides meetings held during the year, and Director updates providing context for the strategic the Board, and in particular the Non-Executive attendance, is available in the table on page 64. discussions as well as governance oversight Directors, with direct and open access to of in-year activity.
Board operating rhythm Regular updates from Operational, property Market and the Board Committees and financial updates Higher Education on their activities and Provide the Board with sector updates 1 2 3 recommendations the necessary information Ensure the Board has Ensure that the detailed to track the Groups the latest market and work performed in the Board performance and sector knowledge.
Committees is considered challenge any problems by the Board as a whole.
Risk Strategy and Review and discuss our five-year plan principal risks at a Group Discuss, review and approve 5 4 level and also review our strategy and five-year operational level risks the plan, and track how we Boards operational risk review are performing against is to verify that risks have been our current strategy and properly identified and that five-year plan.
appropriate risk-mitigation plans are being correctly managed with clear actions and ownership.
New development schemes Training Review of Group policies Review and challenge new Review of the Boards training Review of key Group policies, development schemes being needs and ensure that the such as the Anti-Bribery Policy, 6 7 8 recommended by management Board is up to date on key to ensure they are appropriate and, due to the significant legal and regulatory changes.
capital expenditure involved During 2018, this was focused and key strategic decisions on the GDPR and Corporate required, approve these new Governance developments.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 61 Corporate governance LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Board activity and annual programme February Preliminary results External Board evaluation University Partnership update Property approval of developments New Wakefield, Manchester and Market update Cowley Barracks, Oxford Equity Placing April Growth strategy Post-completion review review Nomination Committee Market downturn analysis of 2017 property completions leadership, development and succession planning IR review May Internal audit plan Assess auditors Higher Education review Development Review internal controls Strategy June BI MI approach Principal risks review Digital IT strategy Half-year valuation preview Brexit readiness plan Property approval of acquisition First Way, Wembley July Group Board and Health & Safety Interim results Nomination Committee Board Committee BSC and Fire Safety Audit appointment Richard Akers and Ilaria del Beato Property-approval of development of Tower North, Leeds September Remuneration Committee Debt financing Strategic plan and talent review Shareholder consultation Internal Board Evaluation November 2019 budget Strategy update Customer satisfaction themes December Principal risks review Approve 2019 budget Corporate Governance review Whistleblowing review Brexit disruption plan of new code Prospective year end out-turn CSR Unite Foundation Tax strategy Strategy Financial and risk management Operational Commercial Investor relations Governance Quality properties Quality service platform University partnerships People Earnings & NAV growth No board activity in January, August and October 62 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 are set out on pages 56 and 57.
Following the Composition and appointments Composition of the Board individual performance evaluations of each of The composition of the Board during 2018 the Non-Executive Directors seeking re-election, is set out in the table on page 64. it is confirmed that the performance of each of 1 these Non-Executive Directors continues to be The Board currently consists of the 2 effective.
They each demonstrate commitment Chairman, two Executive Directors to the role, and add value and relevant and six Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance with the requirements of the 3 Code, each of the current Directors other than Roles Andrew Jones offers themselves for re-election The Groups terms of reference for the at the Annual General Meeting to be convened Chairman and the Chief Executive clearly on 9 May 2019.
Andrew Jones is stepping down establish the division of responsibility between 1 Chairman 1 as a Director at the upcoming Annual General the two roles.
Summaries of those roles, and that 2 Executive Directors 2 Meeting after six years as a Non-Executive of the Senior Independent Director, are set out Director.
Brief biographies of all the Directors in the table below.
3 Non-Executive Directors 6 and their skills, experience and contribution, Role Description Chairman Phil Whites principal responsibilities are: to establish, in conjunction with the Chief Executive, the strategic objectives of the Group for approval by the Board to organise the business of the Board to enhance the standing of the Company by communicating with shareholders, the financial community and the Groups stakeholders generally.
Chief Executive Richard Smith has responsibility for: establishing, in conjunction with the Chairman, the strategic objectives of the Group, for approval by the Board implementing the Groups business plan and annual budget the overall operational and financial performance of the Group.
Senior Independent As Senior Independent Director, Elizabeth McMeikans principal responsibilities are to: Director act as Chairman of the Board if the Chairman is conflicted act as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder concerns if other channels of communication are inappropriate ensure that the Chairman is provided with effective feedback on his performance.
Responsibility and delegation A schedule of specific matters is reserved for the Board.
These include: Approving the strategic objectives of the Group and the business plan to achieve those objectives Approving major investments, acquisitions, mergers and divestments Approving major development schemes Approving appointments to and dismissals from the Board Reviewing systems of internal control and risk management Approving policies relating to Directors remuneration.
These topics are scheduled as part of the Boards annual operating rhythm and forward agenda or brought to the Board on an ad hoc basis.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 63 Corporate governance LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Directors attendance at meetings in 2018 Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Current Directors Status Date of appointment to the Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Phil White Chairman 21 January 2009 10 N A 4 3 N A Sir Tim Wilson Independent 01 December 2010 10 5 4 3 3 Andrew Jones Independent 01 February 2013 10 N A 4 3 N A Elizabeth McMeikan Independent 01 February 2014 10 5 4 3 3 Joe Lister Executive 02 January 2008 10 N A N A N A N A Richard Smith Executive 01 January 2012 10 N A N A N A 3 Ross Paterson Independent 21 September 2017 10 5 4 3 N A 1 Richard Akers Independent 01 September 2018 3 1 2 1 N A 2 Ilaria del Beato Independent 01 December 2018 1 1 N A 1 1 3 Richard Simpson Executive 01 January 2012 5 N A N A N A N A 1 Appointed 1 September 2018.
The chart below shows the current tenure of the Board Committees Professional advice and board support Non-Executive Directors rounded up to the The Board has delegated certain responsibilities Directors are given access to independent nearest year, including the Chairman.
to its Committees, as detailed on the following professional advice at the Companys expense pages.
The terms of reference for each when the Directors deem it necessary in order Committee are reviewed annually and the Chair succession planning for them to carry out their responsibilities.
The current versions are available on the Companys The Board notes the new Corporate Governance Directors also have regular dialogue with, and website at www.
The current Code requires that the chair of the board should direct access to, the advice and services of the membership of each Committee of the Board is not normally remain in post beyond nine years Company Secretary, who ensures that Board set out in the chart on page 60. from the date of their first appointment to the processes and corporate governance practices board and that Phil White was first appointed to are followed.
the board as chair in May 2009 and therefore will Board tenure have been in post for 10 years at the date of the Each of the Executive Directors has a rolling Insurance upcoming AGM.
The Nominations Committee, contract of employment with a 12-month notice The Company maintains Directors and Officers led by our Senior Independent Director, is reviewing period, while Non-Executive Directors are, subject liability insurance, which is renewed on an our succession planning for the role of chair.
to re-election by shareholders, appointed to the annual basis.
Board for a term of approximately three years.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, the Directors will all retire at the Annual General Meeting and will submit themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Non-Executive Director tenure in years 10 8 6 5 2 1 1 Phil Sir Tim Andrew Elizabeth Ross RIchard Ilaria White Wilson Jones McMeikan Paterson Ackers del Beato 64 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018
