Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 EFFECTIVENESS As part of the induction programme, each The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors Induction Director also visits key locations to see our constructively challenge and help develop On appointment to the Board, each Director business operations and properties first-hand proposals on strategy, and bring strong, takes part in a comprehensive and personalised and the Higher Education institutions with independent judgement, knowledge and induction programme.
This induction is also which we partner.
Also, they meet with key experience to the Boards deliberations.
supplemented with ongoing training throughout senior executives, so from the outset they have Non-Executive Directors are expected to the year to ensure the Board is kept up to date access to managers throughout the organisation commit approximately 20 days per annum with key legal, regulatory and industry updates.
to help them form their own independent views to the business of the Group.
Richard Akers and Ilaria del Beato, who joined on the Group, its performance and the sector the Board in 2018, underwent an induction we operate in.
In addition, they meet with The terms and conditions of appointment of programme following this framework: representatives of the Companys key advisers.
the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office The business and operations of the Group and and at the Annual General Meeting.
the Higher Education sector: the role of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Board and matters reserved for its decisions: The Board considers each of its seven the terms of reference and membership of Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
Training Board Committees: and powers delegated Accordingly, the Company meets the requirement The Board considered it important that the to those Committees of the Code in relation to members of the FTSE Committee Chairs continue to receive sector 350 that at least half of the Board excluding and relevant functional training such as on The Groups corporate governance practices the Chairman is made-up of independent accounting, corporate governance and and procedures and the latest financial Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, Phil White executive remuneration reporting developments information about the Group Chairman of the Board was considered and accordingly the Committee Chairs attend The legal and regulatory responsibilities as independent on his appointment to that role.
The Board as a whole a Director and, specifically, as a Director of receives ongoing training on corporate a listed company.
governance and other relevant developments.
2018 Performance evaluation Each year the Board, its Committees and Directors are evaluated, considering among other things the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board, its diversity including gender, how it works together as a unit and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
The Companys policy is to conduct an externally facilitated evaluation every third year.
During 2018, the evaluation was conducted internally.
The previous external evaluation was in 2017 and the next external evaluation is expected to be during 2020.
During 2018, this Board evaluation explored our corporate culture and governance leadership.
In addition, the evaluation considered the behaviours and processes of the Board, its Committees and each member of the Board, including the Chairman.
The 2018 evaluation took the form of a questionnaire asking searching questions of the Board and Committees.
This was conducted on an anonymous basis to encourage frank and direct feedback and the results then collated by the Company Secretary and shared with the Group Board and each Committee.
In addition, the recommended actions from the 2017 evaluation were reviewed to determine progress against them.
The output was positive, with a consensus that the Board and its Committees operate effectively as a team, balancing their collective responsibility appropriately.
The Board has clear agreement on its role in shaping, embedding and overseeing Home for Success and our values.
A key learning is the development of KPIs to improve the measurement of Home for Success delivery what does success really look like.
Also, continued focus on succession planning and strengthening the leadership team below Board level to ensure bench strength.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 65
