Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, an important part of which is compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Victrex continues to review its systems, processes and policies to support its philosophy of continuous improvement in sustainability and governance practices.
The code published by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016 the Code took effect for companies with accounting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016 and has applied to the Company for the financial year ended 30 September 2018.
The Code can be found on the FRC website, www.
The following report, together with the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 68, explains how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code and, following a detailed review, the extent of its compliance with the Codes provisions.
As a Company, we are always mindful to ensure that we comply with not only the letter but the spirit of the Code.
Statement of compliance Leadership Except as outlined below, the Company has complied with all relevant The role of the Board provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2018 The role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and and from that date up to the date of publication of this Annual Report.
the Directors are collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board also acts as custodian of the Companys A number of provisions were not met continuously throughout values and of its long-term vision and provides strategic direction theyear.
and guidance for the Company.
The names, biographical details and The requirement of B.
1.2 that at least half the Board, excluding the significant time commitments of the members of the Board are set Chairman, comprises independent non-executive Directors was not out on pages 42 and 43. met at the beginning of the financial year following the appointment In discharging its responsibilities, the Board also seeks to set, of Jakob Sigurdsson as Chief Executive Officer CEO both the promote and demonstrate adherence to our values and ethical outgoing CEO and incoming CEO were Directors for a transition period standards for the Company.
It remains mindful of the need to to ensure an orderly handover.
However, following the retirement of observe the duties owed by Directors in law, including promoting David Hummel on 31March 2018, the Board balance and composition the sustainable success of the Company, not only for our complied with the Code.
The number of non-executive Directors on shareholders, but also for our stakeholders, which include our the Board was increased in May 2018 with the appointment of David employees, suppliers, customers and the wider community.
At the end of the 2018 financial year and up to the date of this report, the Board comprised five non-executive directors, a The offices of the Chairman and the CEO are separate and clearly Chairman and four executive directors.
All of our new non-executives distinct.
The division of their responsibilities is set out in writing.
These give complementary skills and experience from other Boards, which roles and responsibilities have been reviewed by the Board following will support Victrexs strategy and future direction.
the appointment of our new CEO, Jakob Sigurdsson, to ensure that they reflect appropriately the functions and activities of their respective Provision B.
6.2 requires the board evaluation of FTSE 350 companies roles, changes occurring in the Group and management of the business.
tobe externally facilitated at least every three years.
The last such Therole and responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director SID evaluation was in 2015 and the intention was that an externally arealso set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The CEO is facilitated evaluation would take place in 2018.
However, given responsible for the day to day running of the Group, carrying out the thenumber of new non-executive Director appointments coupled agreed strategy and implementing specific Board decisions.
witha new CEO and a new Group Finance Director, after careful consideration and discussion, the Board chose to conduct an internally The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and facilitated process, postponing the external facilitation until the third ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Chairman quarter of 2019. is also responsible for creating the right Board dynamic and for Provision C. 3.1. requires that the Chairman of the Company is not promoting a culture of openness and debate, in addition to ensuring amember of the Audit Committee.
Given the unexpected departure constructive and productive relations between executive and ofthe former Committee Chair, Andrew Dougal, in February 2018, non-executive Directors.
The Chairman is an ambassador for the theChairman, Larry Pentz, was appointed as Chair of the Audit Company to shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Committee on an interim basis.
Larry was considered the most The executive Directors are responsible for the running of the business.
appropriate candidate as he was immediately available, could meet The non-executive Directors are responsible for exercising independent therequired time commitments and ensure the orderly transition to and objective judgement in respect of Board decisions, developing anappropriate external successor.
David Thomas was appointed Chair corporate strategy with senior management and scrutinising and ofthe Audit Committee on joining the Company in May 2018. constructively challenging the actions of senior management.
44 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance Corporate governance framework Victrex plc Board Disclosure Audit Nominations Chief Executives Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee ELT Committee Assurance Industrial Medical Internal audit External audit functions business unit business unit Our Senior Independent Director, Pamela Kirby, acts as a sounding Matters reserved for the Board and delegation board to the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors ofauthority when necessary.
She is also available to meet with shareholders There are certain matters that are deemed significant enough to should they have any concerns, where contact through the normal bereserved for Board decision only.
A documented schedule of channels may be inappropriate.
Pamela Kirby also leads the review of matters reserved for the Boards decision is reviewed annually the Chairmans performance, as part of the annual Board evaluation.
toensure it continues to be appropriate for the activities of the Group.
These matters include: The General Counsel and Company Secretary, Louise Waldek, reports to the Chairman on governance matters and is responsible setting the Groups strategy and approval of the Companys u for keeping the Board up to date on all legislative, regulatory and long-term objectives: governance matters.
She is also responsible for supporting the approval of preliminary announcements of the final results, the Chairman and other Board members as necessary, including the u Annual Report, announcement of results for the half year and management of Board and Committee meetings and their evaluation, other announcements concerned with the financial performance advising on Directors duties and facilitating appropriate, high quality of the Group: and timely information flows between management and the Board.
changes to the Companys capital structure: u Operation of the Board approval of the capital allocation policy: u The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, monitoring achievement of its business objectives and maintaining considering major contracts and capital expenditure: u asystem of effective corporate governance, which includes the approval of the risk management policy and framework: u responsibility for health, safety, environmental, social and ethical matters.
It also establishes the Companys risk management and considering major investments and acquisitions: and u internal control systems and carries out a review of their effectiveness, approving the treasury and cash management policy.
u and has reported on this in the report on pages 49 and 50.
The Board delegates day to day and business management control The agenda for each meeting of the Board combines scheduled items to the executive Directors, who in turn delegate as appropriate to derived from a planned programme of business and in addition, senior management.
A detailed review of the Groups authority where appropriate, ad-hoc matters reflecting the requirements matrix has been undertaken, taking account of the prevailing oftheGroup.
When preparing each agenda, attention is given to matters reserved for the Board.
This has reflected developments ensuring that sufficient time is provided for debate and challenge.
inthe breadth and scale of the Groups business to ensure that there Standing agenda items include, for example, reports on safety, is appropriate escalation of decisions through the Group hierarchy.
health and environment as well as financial performance.
The programme of business is subject to periodic review and assessment to ensure that the Board is discharging its duties effectively, taking into account the development of the Group as well as evolving governance requirements.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 45 Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at the Board and Committee meetings convened in the year to 30 September 2018: Attended Not attended Audit Remuneration Nominations Note Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings Chairman L C Pentz 1 n a Executive Directors J O Sigurdsson n a n a n a R J Armitage 2 n a n a n a T J Cooper n a n a n a M L Court n a n a n a D R Hummel n a n a n a L S Burdett n a n a n a Non-executive Directors P J M fide Smedt A J H Dougal P J Kirby J E Ashdown 3 B W D Connolly 3 D J Thomas 3 J E Toogood Notes 1 Following the resignation of Andrew Dougal, the Chairman, Larry Pentz, was appointed as Chair of the Audit Committee on an interim basis until anappropriate appointment could be made.
The Chairman chaired the May Audit Committee meeting.
2 Richard Armitage was appointed on 1 May 2018 and has attended all Board meetings scheduled after that date.
3 Following their appointments, Janet Ashdown, Brendan Connolly and David Thomas were unable to attend a Board Committee meeting due to unavoidable commitments which were scheduled prior to their appointment to the Board.
Although not members of all of the Committees, when appropriate to the business under consideration, Larry Pentz, Jakob Sigurdsson, Richard Armitage, Tim Cooper and Martin Court may be invited to attend meetings of the Committees.
In addition, other employees and advisors may be asked to attend and provide support to the conduct of the business of the Board and Committees, as reflected in their respective terms of reference.
Principal Board activities During the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report, the Board focused on a number of specific areas which are outlined inthe table below: Board activity 2018 Strategy Business Review Governance Financial and Risk Strategy Day Health and Safety Review andReporting u u u Group Financial Director Reports Investor Relations Strategic Review CEO and Executive u u u Updates ofMarkets Reports u Risk Review and Management Half and Full-Year Reports Strategy Benchmarking u u u Code of Conduct Review Board Committee Reports M&A JV Activity Review u u u Brexit Assessments Board Evaluation Portfolio Review u u u Annual Budget Board Appointments HR and Talent u u Management Strategy u Treasury and Cash Management 46 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance Matters reserved for the Board and delegation Disclosure Committee ofauthority continued Chair Larry Pentz, Jakob Sigurdsson Board Committees orRichardArmitage The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board The Disclosure Committee facilitates timely and accurate Committees, namely: disclosure of information by the Company in accordance u the Nominations Committee: with applicable law or regulation in circumstances where itisimpractical for the Board, or any other Board Committee, u the Audit Committee: to fulfil those obligations.
Accordingly, the Committee is u the Remuneration Committee: and authorised to make disclosures on behalf of the Board.
TheCommittee will take advice, from the Companys broker, u the Disclosure Committee.
external auditor and legal advisors, on the form and content The Board has ultimate responsibility for the annual approval of the ofany disclosure under consideration.
Treasury and Cash Management Policy and continues to be supported The Committee comprises all Directors of the Company and the in its work by the Currency Committee.
The Currency Committee is General Counsel and Company Secretary, with a quorum being chaired by the Group Finance Director, Richard Armitage, and meets any two Directors which must include one of the Chairman, on a monthly basis to manage the application of the policy.
During the CEO or the Group Finance Director.
The Chair of each 2018 the Currency Committee continued to monitor the Treasury Committee meeting will be appointed on an ad-hoc basis.
Policy and in addition reviewed the Companys cash deposit strategy.
Meetings of the Committee may be called by any member Further details on the policy and the activities oftheCurrency ofthe Committee on any period of notice, provided that notice Committee are included in note 14 to the financialstatements.
The reports of the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees are set out on pages 51 to 68 and that for the Disclosure Committee The Chief Executives Committee isshown to the right.
These Committees operate under terms of In discharging his responsibilities, the Chief Executive Officer reference and a standing agenda item provides for them to report at isassisted by the Executive Leadership Team ELT.
The ELT each Board meeting via the Committee Chairs.
The terms of reference comprises the four executive Directors, Jakob Sigurdsson, are reviewed annually, with any revisions proposed by the respective Richard Armitage, Tim Cooper and Martin Court.
Louise Waldek Committees and then approved by the Board.
The Board has provided General Counsel and Company Secretary and Jilly Atherton its Committees with sufficient resources to undertake their duties, Group HR Director joined the ELT during 2018.
This team including access to the services of the General Counsel and Company isresponsible for making recommendations to the Board on Secretary and external advisors, where appropriate.
matters that are reserved fortheir decision, such as strategy, The terms of reference of the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration corporate development andannual budgets.
During 2018, 15 Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com meetings of the ELT were held.
In addition, members of the ELT and in paper form on request from the registered office of the Company.
participate in other management committees which oversee and provide governance on the conduct of the Groups business, Board effectiveness including for example a committee that meets to discuss Composition, independence anddiversity of the Board investment in new products and technologies together with At the date of this report, the Board comprised a non-executive monitoring progress in execution of programme milestones.
Chairman, five non-executive Directors and four executive Directors.
The Corporate Governance Code requires that at least half the Board should comprise independent non-executive Directors.
As disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report, following the appointment of Jakob Sigurdsson to the Board in October 2017, the Board did not comprise Nominations Committee report a majority of independent non-executive Directors: thus, this provision Page 51 of the Code was not met until David Hummel, the former CEO of the Company, resigned from the Board on 31 March 2018.
From this point, the Board comprised a majority of independent non-executive Audit Committee report Directors, which was further strengthened by the appointment of Pages 52 to 54 an additional non-executive Director, David Thomas, in May 2018.
Remuneration Committeereport As part of the cycle of business for the Nominations Committee, Pages 55 to 68 consideration is given to the composition of the Board to ensure the Board operates effectively for our shareholders and stakeholders.
Experience, skill set, diversity and independence are amongst the criteria discussed.
The non-executive Directors including the Chairman, Larry Pentz, who was independent on his appointment are all considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise oftheir independent judgement.
Whilst the Board recognises that Larry Pentz has served more than the recommended nine years on the Victrex Board, the Board continues to view him as independent, offering significant experience and counsel since his appointment asChairman in 2014.
In the past year, he provided support and guidance to the new Chief Executive Officer, Jakob Sigurdsson, through animportant succession period, and will continue to do so, whilstnoting the Boards wider succession planning.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 47 Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued Conflicts of interest Board effectiveness continued Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation Composition, independence anddiversity of the Board continued where a direct or indirect conflict of interest may occur and The composition of the Board is intended to ensure that its procedures are in place to deal with any situation where a conflict membership represents a mix of backgrounds, skills and experience may be perceived.
The Board confirms that it has considered and that will enhance the quality of its deliberations and decisions.
authorised any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest in accordance Diversity in Board composition is considered to be an important part with these procedures.
The Board has specifically considered the of overall Board effectiveness.
As a result, in looking for prospective other appointments held by Directors, summary details of which Directors, there is regard to the skills and experience of the Board at are contained in their biographies on pages 42 and 43, and has that time, the need to address longer-term succession and business confirmed that each is able to devote sufficient time to fulfil the priorities and inherent qualities, as well as cultural background.
The duties required of them under the terms of their contracts or letters annual formal evaluation of the Board takes Board diversity into of appointment.
account and contributes to identifying any new skill requirements, as well as possible shortcomings, gaps or inefficiencies.
Board evaluation The Board recognises that a rigorous performance evaluation is The merits of gender diversity are recognised and current female important to optimise Board effectiveness.
A formal evaluation of representation on the Board is 30%.
The Board recognises the the Board, Board Committees and individual Directors performance importance of gender diversity at the level below the Board and is is carried out annually.
This provides an opportunity to consider committed to ensuring an appropriate level of gender diversity, in ways of identifying greater efficiencies in the operation of the particular at senior management level.
There is a commitment in the Board, maximising strengths and highlighting areas for further Company to support women in rising to the top of the management improvement, as well as checking that each Director continues to structure.
At present there are six executives on the ELT.
Both demonstrate commitment to his or her role and each has sufficient theGeneral Counsel and Company Secretary and the Group HR time to meet his or her commitments to the Company.
Director are female and thus one third of the Senior Management team is female.
Further information on the total female representation The most recent externally facilitated Board evaluation was on our workforce is provided in our Sustainability report on page 37. conducted in 2015 with Stone Court Consulting.
The Boards intention was to conduct an externally supported review in 2018: Boardroom diversity however, given the number of changes to the Board in the six The Boards statement on diversity, which has been published on months prior to conducting the Board evaluation, it was appropriate our website, is as follows: to postpone this until all Directors had the benefit of twelve months on the Board to maximise the output of the review.
The Board of Victrex plc welcomed the publication of the Davies Review on Women on Boards.
Our current female representation Therefore, in the year ended 30 September 2018, the performance onthe Board is 30% and is therefore in excess of the minimum evaluation was conducted internally through use of a questionnaire representation level as recommended by the Davies Review.
which was prepared by the General Counsel and Company Secretary Wealsorecognise the importance of diversity in general at following consultation with Chairs of the Board and Committees.
Boardlevel and our Board members comprise a number of Aswell as questions designed to support the assessment, the  with a wide range of experience from questionnaire also incorporated sections that invited respondents avarietyof business backgrounds.
toprovide comments and observations on aspects of the business of the Board and Committees.
The longer-standing Directors As already mentioned above, we also recognise the importance of completed the questionnaires and those Directors appointed diversity in general at Board level and our Board members comprise in2018had one to one meetings with the Chairman and Senior a number of different nationalities with a wide range of experience Independent Director to set out their initial thoughts on the from a variety of business backgrounds.
Further information on our operation of the Victrex Board.
Group HR policies, including those on equal opportunities and diversity, is set out on page 38.
The results of completed questionnaires and one to one discussions were shared with the Chairman of the Board and Chairs of the Election and re-election of Directors respective Committees and discussed at subsequent meetings held Consistent with best practice, all the Directors will retire at the Annual during the autumn.
The overall conclusion was that the Board and General Meeting AGM being held in February 2019.
Each of the its Committees were performing well and that satisfactory progress other Directors will offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
had been made in addressing areas which the Directors had The Board is recommending that shareholders vote in favour of previously identified as meriting additional attention.
The changes theelection of Mr Armitage and Mr Thomas, and the re-election atBoard level were acknowledged and the opportunities for fresh ofMr Pentz, Dr Kirby, Ms Ashdown, Mr Connolly, Ms Toogood, thinking noted.
Consistent themes throughout the responses MrSigurdsson, Mr Cooper and Dr Court, having given due inthequestionnaires were the need for broader diversity, the consideration to performance and terms of office.
importance of continued engagement with those below Board level, andagreater focus on tracking actual performance against The Notice of AGM on pages 114 and 115 gives biographical details the strategic plan.
Further information on both the appointment andreplacement of Directors is given in the Directors report onpages 70 and 71.
48 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance Executive Directors performance is reviewed by the Remuneration Directors can take independent professional advice, where necessary, Committee in conjunction with the Chief Executive Officer, except in at the Companys expense and have access to the services of the the case of his own performance review.
The Chairmans performance is General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The General Counsel and reviewed by the Board, without the Chairman present, which during Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures 2018 was led by the Senior Independent Director.
In October 2018, are followed and for providing advice to the Board on corporate pursuant to the Code, the Chairman met with the other non-executive governance matters.
Both the appointment and removal of the Directors without the executive Directors present, and the Senior General Counsel and Company Secretary are matters for the Board Independent Director met with the other non-executive Directors asa whole.
Appropriate levels of insurance cover are obtained for all Directors Induction and training and Officers of the Company.
Further information on Directors All new non-executive Directors receive an induction programme, indemnities is given in the Directors report on page 72. appropriate to their experience, background and particular areas offocus.
It includes a wide range of meetings with other Directors Accountability and senior management, attending results and broker briefings and Financial and business reporting opportunities to visit the Groups operations outside of the UK.
The The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced and programme has evolved over time to take into account feedback understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Board evaluation process also considers At a divisional level, the relevant members of management report specific training or development needs.
to the Board through a standardised process on recent business performance and expectations for the future.
The Group has a During the year, there were a number of new appointments.
comprehensive annual budgeting protocol and the annual budget Inthetime since their appointments, these Directors met all key is approved by the Board.
Reforecasts are presented to the Board management, completed a tour of the Hillhouse site and operations during the course of the year.
and visited operations both at Grantsburg, USA, and at TxV in RhodeIsland, USA.
All Directors also received detailed corporate The Directors statement explaining why they continue to adopt the governance training including the framework at Victrex, the new going concern basis for preparing the financial statements is given 2018 Corporate Governance Code and the actions planned to in the Directors report Strategic report on page 26.
In accordance ensure timely adoption.
with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors have assessed the prospect of the Company over a longer period than the twelve New executive Directors also receive an induction focused on their months required by the going concern provision.
This assessment new role and wider responsibilities which includes briefings on areas isoutlined in our Viability statement on pages 26 and 27. such as Directors duties and corporate governance guidelines and best practice.
Induction programmes cover matters such as Group The Board considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, structure and strategy, industry and competitive environment, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary Group risk profile and our approach to risk and safety, health and information for shareholders to assess the Companys position environmental matters.
Training including social, environmental andperformance, business model and strategy.
andethical matters is also provided.
Risk management and internal control procedures In conjunction with his appointment as Group Finance Director, The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of Richard Armitage attended a number of meetings with the Directors, the principal risks it is willing to take in seeking to meet its strategic as well as with the Companys corporate broker, JP Morgan, and objectives.
It is ultimately responsible for maintaining sound risk legal advisors, Slaughter and May and Addleshaw Goddard.
The management systems including financial reporting process, and latter included training concerning the UK Listing Rules and the appropriate financial and non-financial controls.
The Board is UKMarket Abuse Regime.
In addition, meetings were held with supported in assessing the risk framework and internal reporting shareholders, as well as a detailed programme of discussions with bythe Audit Committee and our risk management processes.
management and employees in various forums, which included A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather visiting offices across our various regions as part of developing than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives anunderstanding of theGroup.
andcan only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Information and support againstmaterial misstatement or loss.
The Board is responsible for There are robust processes in place to ensure the Board receives establishing formal and transparent arrangements for considering management information and reports on strategic and operational how it should apply the corporate reporting, risk management matters on a timely basis.
The CEO also updates the Board on andinternal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate progress against the Groups strategic plan.
Briefings by operational relationship with the Companys auditor.
management also take place regularly to enhance the Boards understanding of the business, during which consideration is given to financial and commercial performance within target markets against the relevant business plan for the year and future strategy.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 49 Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued The Group has a whistleblowing policy, which is subject to Accountability continued periodicreview to ensure compliance with relevant local regulations Risk management and internal control procedures continued within each of the territories in which we operate and with good Twice a year the Board reviews the principal risks, allowing it the governance.
The most recent detailed review of the policy opportunity to review the level of risk it is prepared to accept in wasundertaken during 2018.
The Audit Committee oversees pursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
This has included whistleblowing arrangements, by which staff may, in confidence, continued focus on evolving issues, for example connected with raise concerns about possible improprieties.
The Company continues Brexit, and understanding their potential impact on the Group in to operate a Global Code of Conduct.
This Code of Conduct theconduct of its business.
The Board considers that there remains includes areas such as anti-bribery, data protection and conflicts awide range of issues to be addressed before theGroup can make ofinterest.
At staff briefings attended by executive Directors, an informed assessment on the potential impact of Brexit, but is presentations have been held on certain aspects of the Code of nevertheless proactively making appropriate preparations for Conduct and how this affects employees.
These form an important potential outcomes.
Based on our assessment of the latest available element in our drive to promulgate practices and standards which information, the largest risk continues to be a sustained period we recognise contribute to our reputation as a business and our when the Group may not be able to import certain raw materials standing with all stakeholder groups.
orexport finished goods through Customs, which could curtail sales if regional inventory levels were depleted.
Contingency measures The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal include Victrex securing additional warehousing for finished goods control system, including financial, operational and compliance stock in mainland Europe and China, together with additional safety controls, and risk management in accordance with the Code.
Stocklevelsin FY 2019 will therefore increase.
result of this process, the Board is satisfied that there have been no significant failings or weaknesses.
We confirm that the Group has Victrex has assessed the potential financial impact of a no deal complied with the Code provisions on internal control by operating Brexit.
If our materials are unable to secure exemptions as the only throughout the year ended 30 September 2018 and up to the manufacturer of PEEK products in the EU based on standard WTO dateof approval of this Annual Report appropriate procedures in tariffs, we estimate that cross-border duties, both for import of accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal certain raw materials and export of finished goods, may add some Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
additional costs in the first financial year following the UKs exit from the EU.
However, any weakening in Sterling following a no Further details of the risk management framework operating at deal Brexit, in line with the average of market assessments of Victrex are given on pages 21 and 22. approximately 10% lower rates than today, could provide a high degree of mitigation once the effect of existing hedging in place Relations with shareholders rolls off.
Other potential opportunities also exist to mitigate such The Board as a whole has a responsibility for ensuring that satisfactory costs, although these would take some months to implement and engagement with shareholders takes place, based on the mutual may not be effective until the second year.
The Board achieves this through During 2018, the Board also considered in particular certain dialogue with shareholders and analysts, led by the Chief Executive mitigation steps for a number of the principal risks.
This included Officer, Group Finance Director and Director of Investor Relations.
discussing managements assessment of how the mitigation Inaddition, the Chairman is available to meet institutional shareholders.
measures reduce the potential occurrence or impact of a risk.
The Senior Independent Director and other non-executive Directors will attend meetings with major shareholders, ifrequested.
No such The Board confirms that it has carried out a robust assessment of meetings were requested during the year.
the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and The Board believes that appropriate steps have been taken during liquidity: that the principal risks remain within its risk appetite: the year so that all members of the Board, and in particular the andthat there is a framework of processes in place for identifying, non-executive Directors, have an understanding of the views of evaluating, monitoring and managing the principal risks faced by major shareholders.
Such steps include, for example, analyst and the Company, as outlined above.
These processes were reviewed broker briefings, a standing Board agenda item covering investor during the year by the ELT Risk Management Committee, and the relations matters, consideration by the Board of brokers reports findings reported to the Audit Committee, which has responsibility andfeedback from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis.
as delegated by the Board for reviewing the risk management As part of our introductions to investors for our new Chief Executive systems and the effectiveness of these systems and reporting Officer in the first part of 2018, a series of roadshow meetings were totheBoard.
Additionally, to reflect the increasing The Boards view of the key strategic and operational risks and shareholding from investors outside of the UK, our Chief Executive howwe seek to manage those risks is set out on pages 21 to 25.
Officer, Group Finance Director and Director of Investor Relations participated in two US roadshows during the year, which saw The independent Risk and Compliance function supports the Board engagement with both existing and prospective shareholders.
in its assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal Wealso continue to seek investor feedback via bi-annual surveys control.
There is a rolling programme of business assurance conducted by our brokers, JP Morgan.
including internal audit carried out across the Group, co-ordinated by the Director of Risk and Compliance, who reports to the Chairman All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the annual forthcoming AGM, which is being held on 6 February 2019.
The business assurance plan, its findings, effectiveness, allocation of Chairs of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees appropriate resources and risk management activities.
will be available to answer questions at that meeting.
Proxy votes lodged on each AGM resolution are announced at the meeting, The Audit Committee also provides assurance over the completeness published on the Companys website and announced via the and accuracy of our reporting process, on which the Chair of the Regulatory Information Service.
Committee reports to the Board as part of finalising approval of the Annual Report.
50 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance Responsibilities The Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size, diversity and composition of the Board.
It is also responsible for succession planning and identifying and recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the Board when vacancies arise.
TheCommittee has applied the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions in developing the Companys policies on succession planning and appointments.
Larry Pentz In considering an appointment, the Committee evaluates the Chair of the balance of skills, knowledge, independence and experience of Nominations theBoard and prepares a description of the role and capabilities Committee required for a particular appointment.
Internal candidates are considered where appropriate.
It has been a very busy year for the Nominations Committee.
Nominations Committee report Included in the Committees items of business during the year were recommendations to the Board on three non-executive Director The Committee is responsible for regularly appointments.
The Committee was supported in the search for reviewing the structure, size, diversity and suitable candidates by external recruitment agencies Korn Ferry composition of the Board.
This is to ensure andEgon Zehnder.
The search culminated in the appointments ofMrConnolly, Ms Ashdown and Mr Thomas as non-executive that the Company has the right leadership, Directors.
All of our new non-executives give complementary skills balance of skills and experience to deliver the and experience from other Boards, which will support Victrexs strategy and future direction.
Companys strategy and enable the Board to In conjunction with the Remuneration Committee and external effectively fulfil its obligations.
recruitment agencies, a search commenced for a Group Finance Director.
An assessment was also undertaken of the appropriate Membership structure for remuneration of the successful candidate.
Richard The Nominations Committee comprises all of the non-executive Armitage was subsequently appointed to the Board in May 2018.
Directors and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Larry Pentz.
Information on the remuneration of Mr Armitage can be found The Committee met on five occasions during the year, as well as inthe Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 65. incombination with other formal meetings of the Board where Biographies of all new Directors are on pages 42 and 43. thiswas appropriate to the matter under consideration, thereby enabling views of all Directors to be taken into account in reaching During 2018, meetings of the Committee also considered planning balanced and informed decisions.
for executive Directors and key management roles, executive training and development, and the effectiveness of the Committee.
The Committee used Korn Ferry to assist with the executive development and training scheme.
The Nominations Committee also reviewed the time required from each non-executive Director and any other significant commitments of the Chairman.
The 2018 review found the non-executives timecommitments to be sufficient to discharge their .
Based on recommendations from the Nominations Committee, Directors submit themselves for election at the AGM following their appointment and thereafter annually for re-election in accordance with good governance.
Larry Pentz Chair of the Nominations Committee 4 December 2018 Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 51 Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued The members of the Audit Committee provide a wide range of financial and commercial expertise which includes competence relevant to the sectors in which the Company operates and which enables the Committee to fulfil its function.
The effectiveness of theCommittee in fulfilling its remit was considered as part of the most recent evaluation of performance which was completed in theautumn and subsequently reported to the Board.
Committee meetings The Committee believes it is important to have regular engagement David Thomas with senior management as part of addressing items of business Chair of the effectively.
Accordingly, by invitation, the Chairman, executive AuditCommittee Directors, Group Financial Controller, Director of Risk and Compliance and External Audit Engagement Partner routinely attend each meeting.
Other members of the management team may also be asked to Audit Committee report attend meetings for discussion on specific issues.
The Committee also meets with the auditor twice each year without management The Committee has continued to play a key role being present.
within the Companys governance framework to The Committee has a programme of business reflecting the annual support the Board in matters relating to financial financial cycle of the Company within which are addressed matters reporting, internal control and risk management.
pertaining to governance, the system of financial and non-financial controls, and planning where relevant to the Committees terms It has worked closely with our new external ofreference.
auditors,  PwC, overthe last twelve months.
Responsibilities The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with a I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the programme of business based on its terms of reference which year ended 30 September 2018.
This year brought a number of arereviewed annually and approved by the Board.
The terms of changes for the Audit Committee.
PwC, following its appointment reference were most recently reviewed in November 2018.
The at the 2018 AGM, undertook its first year of auditing the Company.
terms of reference are available on our website, www.
In addition, following the resignation of the previous Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Chair in February 2018, the Company Chair, Larry Pentz, was appointed interim Committee Chair until my appointment in u review the quality and acceptability of accounting policies May 2018.
I am pleased to report that the Audit Committee, andpractices: which is integral to the scrutiny which is given by the Board to u review financial statements and announcements relating the performance of management and the standing of the Group tothefinancial performance of the Company: asawhole, operated effectively throughout the year.
u review the risk management systems and the effectiveness The Committee has three scheduled meetings each year, in addition ofthose systems: to which I meet with members of the executive and management teams outside of those formal meetings to discuss matters which u monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal fall within the Committees terms of reference.
These have included auditfunction: a meeting with the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal u review significant legal and regulatory matters: Audit and the Groups Director of Risk and Compliance in addition to meetings with the General Counsel and Company Secretary as u review the Companys internal financial controls that is, the part of reviewing pertinent matters and forward planning on the systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor business of the Committee.
financial risks and the Companys internal control systems: u review the Committees terms of reference and carry out Membership anannual review of the performance of the Committee: I am a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
I have previously served as chief financial officer of u review matters associated with the appointment, terms, Invensys plc.
Prior to this, I was a senior partner at Ernst & Young remuneration, independence, objectivity and effectiveness and am a former member of the Auditing Practices Board.
The oftheexternal audit process and review the scope and results Board is satisfied that I have recent and relevant financial experience ofthe audit: and as required by the Code.
The other members of the Audit u report to the Board on how the Committee has discharged the Committee during the year were Patrick fide Smedt resigned 9 aforementioned responsibilities.
February 2018, Andrew Dougal resigned 6 February 2018, Pamela Kirby, Jane Toogood, Janet Ashdown appointed 9 February 2018 Within its routine business, the Committee supports the Board and Brendan Connolly appointed 9 February 2018.
The qualifications inconsidering the systems of controls associated with financial of the Audit Committee members are outlined in the Directors reporting.
During 2018 the Audit Committee completed an IT biographies on pages 42 and43.
healthcheck, a review of material contracts and a review of thewhistleblowing policy.
In the following sections, we explain how the Committee fulfils its responsibilities and highlight matters which have been addressed during the course of the year.
52 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance Carrying value of inventory: the Committee reviews the nature Financial reporting of the costs absorbed into inventory, the level of production over The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting which these costs are absorbed, the variances between standard is to review with both management and the external auditor, and cost and actual cost and the reasons for movements in inventory report to the Board the appropriateness of, the annual and half-year value period to period.
The basis for and level of provisioning, financial statements, considering amongst other matters: including those areas which are judgemental or require a high u the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial degree of estimation, are presented to the Committee by reporting standards and relevant financial and governance management.
The Committee discussed and assessed the reporting requirements: information provided by management and concluded that the valuation of inventory and level of provisioning were reasonable.
u areas in which significant judgements have been applied, including discussions on such matters undertaken with the Defined benefit accounting: the valuation of the defined benefit external auditor: scheme obligation is dependent on a number of assumptions that are inherently judgemental, or require a high level of estimation.
u whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Following the closure of the scheme on 31 March 2016, judgement and understandable and provides the information necessary for on future salary growth rates ceased, but judgement over future shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business interest and inflation rates, together with the estimation of mortality model and strategy.
The statement incorporating the conclusion rates remain, with sensitivities of -1% having a material impact on of this assessment is included on page 73: and the value of scheme liabilities and therefore the balance recognised u any correspondence from regulators in relation to our on the Group Balance sheet.
The Audit Committee assesses financialreporting.
thesejudgements and estimates based on reports received from management and the Groups actuarial advisors.
The Committee In addition to the above, the Committee supports the Board in also considered the opinions made and benchmark provided by PwC.
completing its assessment of the adoption of the going concern The Committee concluded that the assumptions used and theresulting basis of preparing the financial statements.
In addition, as part of valuation were reasonable.
the Committees responsibility to provide advice to theBoard on the long-term viability statement, the Committee performed a robust On 26 October 2018, the High Court handed down its judgment in review of the process and underlying assessment of the Groups the Lloyds Banking Group case relating to equalisation of member longer-term prospects made by management, including: benefits for the gender effects of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions GMP equalisation.
This addressed a long-standing legal uncertainty u the review period and its alignment with the Groups five-year for Defined Benefit pension schemes, and will result in an increase in strategic plan: scheme liabilities.
GMP equalisation represents a scheme amendment, u the assessment of the prospects of the Group after consideration where an additional past service cost is chargeable, due to a change of the Groups principal risks, current financial position, available in the benefits payable and will be recognised in full in the Groups banking facility, and ability to generate cash: financial statements in the year ended 30 September 2019.
The impact is expected to be in the range of 1m2m.
This High Court u the modelling of the financial impact of additional key scenarios judgment represents a condition that arose after the balance sheet which encompass the potential impact of crystallisation of one date and has therefore been treated as a non-adjusting post balance or more of the principal risks: and sheet event in accordance with IAS 10 for the year ended u ensuring transparent and enhanced disclosures, as best practice 30September 2018. emerges, in the Annual Report as to why the viability period To aid the conduct of reviews, the Committee considers reports selected was appropriate, including what the key scenarios from the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller tested were and how the analysis was performed.
and also reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of its As a result of that review, the Committee was satisfied that the half-year review and annual audit.
The Viability statement for the 2018 financial year was prepared on a consistent basis with that External audit reported in previous years and is on pages 26 and 27.
The Committee Appointment, independence and effectiveness also supported the Board in its consideration of the impact of Brexit PwC was appointed as auditor at the 2018 AGM, following a tender along with the associated disclosures in this Annual Report.
Whilst PwCs appointment was subject In the preparation and final approval of the financial statements, toapproval at the AGM, the nominated partner, Ian Morrison, was theCommittee has discussed with management the key sources of invited to attend the Audit Committee meeting which considered estimation and critical accounting judgements outlined in note 21. the Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017, in order The significant areas of focus considered and assessed by the to commence the knowledge transfer from KPMG.
Following the Committee in relation to the 2018 financial statements and how approval of the appointment of PwC at the 2018 AGM, a detailed these have been addressed are set out below.
In concluding that handover took place, including a review of KPMG working papers, these represented the primary areas of judgement, or a high degree spending time with management and visiting key locations.
of estimation, the Audit Committee considered reports by management As part of the tender process which resulted in the selection of which referenced both quantitative and qualitative judgement factors PwC, candidates which included both Big 4 and other firms across each significant account balance, assessing the impact on the wereassessed against eight criteria approved by the Committee user of the financial statements.
These are also areas of higher audit atthe start of the process.
The criteria, which were weighted by risk and, accordingly, PwC reported to the Committee on, and the importance, included audit quality, relevant experience, audit Audit Committee discussed and assessed, these judgements and approach, cultural fit and the ability to add value.
During the meeting of the Committee which considered assessed throughout the process, including the site visit, meetings the draft of the report and financial statements, the matters raised with management, the tender submission document, first by PwC in its report were discussed with management, including presentation, tender exercise and second presentation, with how such analysis related to managements own assessment and theCommittee taking input from all those involved at each the appropriateness of the form of disclosure provided by the Company stagewhen making its final recommendation.
in the Annual Report and financial statements.
In particular, the Committee considered the following recurring matters: Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 53 Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued Risk management, internal control and internalaudit External audit continued The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing the risk Appointment, independence and effectiveness continued management systems and effectiveness of these systems.
The A final decision following presentations from the shortlisted firms responsibilities and processes in respect of risk management are was taken in September 2017, with a recommendation by the Audit described separately on pages 21 to 25 and pages 49 and 50.
Committee to appoint PwC as auditor for the Company and its subsidiaries, which was approved by the Board.
Whilst a close The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Groups decision, the areas where PwC differentiated were the extensive internal control systems.
experience of the team, particularly in the chemical manufacturing The Director of Risk and Compliance, as appointed by the sector and listed company market, audit quality, both in terms of Committee, has responsibility for internal audit and independently AQRT scores and team commitment to quality, and its experience reports to the Chair of the Audit Committee in relation to internal inauditing systems similar to those used by Victrex.
In addition to attendance by invitation at meetings ofPwC as auditor for the 2018 financial year was approved at the of the Committee, the Director of Risk and Compliance has met 2018 AGM.
with the Audit Committee Chair on a number of occasions to The Audit Committee actively considers the effectiveness of the consider findings from internal audit and progress being made external audit process on an ongoing basis.
This process commences aswe evolve our practices associated with the identification and in advance of the audit with the identification by the Committee of reporting of risk.
the key risks to audit quality and effectiveness.
The Committee then The programme of business for the internal audit function is assesses the auditor against these key risks throughout the annual considered and approved each year by the Committee.
This focused approach is supplemented by a detailed the proposed programme, the Committee gives consideration to the questionnaire provided to Committee members and management Groups strategic priorities and specific initiatives which are being following the completion of the audit.
The questionnaire covers undertaken, which could impact the business and also the findings assessment of the audit partner, the approach, communication, and actions arising from the assessment of the Groups risk register.
independence, objectivity, audit quality, interaction with internal Thereafter, together with findings from audits which are presented audit and reporting and the role of relevant functions within the at each meeting, the Committee considers progress against agreed Company in the context of audit findings and, in addition, their objectives as part of ensuring the robustness and proper resourcing facilitation and engagement with the audit process as a whole.
of the function to enable it to perform effectively.
Where appropriate The Committee considers PwC to be independent and effective to the nature of the work being undertaken, reviews aresupported inits role as auditor for the financial year ended 30 September 2018. by other independent assurance providers.
Non-audit services The Committee has reflected upon the FRC Guidance on Audit To further safeguard the independence and objectivity of the Committees and was satisfied that the principles concerning internal external auditor, non-audit services provided by the external auditor audit are reflected in the prevailing responsibilities and function of are considered and where appropriate authorised by the Committee the Companys internal audit department.
in accordance with a non-audit services policy.
The policy is outlined in an appendix to the Committees terms of reference, which are published on our website.
This policy places constraints on the David Thomas quantum and type of services undertaken by our auditor with Chair of the AuditCommittee theaim of safeguarding the independence and objectivity of our 4 December 2018 auditor.
Non-audit fees for the year ended 30 September 2018 were26,000 2017: KPMG 28,699.
The non-audit fees primarily related to the interim review and iXBRL tagging of the UKsubsidiaries statutory accounts.
Alternative providers were considered but not deemed practical in the specific circumstances.
Approval was not given to any non-audit services not in accordance with the APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
When awarding non-audit work to PwC, the Committee iscognisant of the EU Audit Regulation, including the cap on non-audit fees of 70% of the audit fee.
Careful consideration was given to the awarding of non-audit services during the period prior to the audit tender so as not to limit the Companys choice of audit firm.
Accordingly, PwC was restricted to 10,000 of non-audit services during the 2017 financial year.
Non-audit services in the 2018 financial year represented 16% 2017: KPMG 19% of the audit fee.
