OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD EFFECTIVENESS BOARD COMPOSITION A presentation at an Audit and Risk The Chairman, with the support of the Committee meeting from the Head of Company Secretary, will ensure that the Led by the Chairman, the Board of Directors Ethics and Compliance to introduce the development and ongoing training needs comprises fourIndependent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Directors of individual Directors and the Board are Directors, two Executive Directors tothe Ethics and Compliance function.
reviewed and agreed at least annually.
 from our major The Company Secretary will ensure that A presentation given by the Group Head shareholders, Vitol and Helios.
Together, the Board is briefed on forthcoming legal ofHSSE.
theyensure highstandards of governance and regulatory developments, as well as andbring a broad range ofskills and experience A series of business inductions, including developments in corporate governance to our business.
a visit to the Morocco business see Case best practice.
Study below for further information.
The Board considered the composition of the Board and its Committees at the time of Further sessions will be held with members BOARD EVALUATION Admission.
All Directors are required to devote of senior management and heads of functions sufficient time and demonstrate commitment during the course of 2019.
Going forward, Given the Company listed within the financial to their role and confirmed to the Chairman at key site visits will also be scheduled to enable year, and that the Independent Non-Executive the time of their appointment that they would the Board to meet business management and Directors joined the Board shortly prior be able to devote sufficient time totheir role.
develop a greater commercial awareness of to Admission, the Board did not consider In addition, the Independent Non-Executive the Group.
it appropriate to carry out a performance Directors are required to consult with the evaluation process prior to publication of the All new Directors joining the Board will receive Chairman before accepting any roles outside Annual Report.
The Company has therefore a full, formal and tailored induction programme, the Group.
6.3 based on the induction received by the of the Code in the period under review.
Independent Non-Executive Directors who BOARD INDUCTION The Board believes that a meaningful evaluation were appointed at the time of Admission.
In preparation for Admission, all Directors can only take place after it has been working received an induction briefing from Freshfields together for a reasonable time.
The Board will BOARD TRAINING Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and JP Morgan look to initiate its first evaluation during 2019 ANDDEVELOPMENT Cazenove, on their duties and responsibilities and will therefore report on this process in As the Company has been listed for less asDirectors of a listed company, with the2019 Annual Report.
than a year, the Chairman did not consider an inwardlisting on the Johannesburg itappropriate to review and agree with each As required by the Code, the NonStockExchange.
The induction process also Director their training and development needs.
Executive Directors, including the Chairman, comprised a programme which included: The Company has therefore not complied met without the Executive Directors or Training for the Independent Non-Executive with provision B.
4.2 of the Code in the period management present during the year.
Directors on oil markets with a focus on under review.
In addition, the SeniorIndependent Director downstream Africa from an economist met with the Non-Executive Directors in specialising in this field.
absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
CASE STUDY: CASE STUDY: GAWAD ABAZAS THE BOARD VISITS INDUCTION THE OPERATING UNIT PROGRAMME IN MOROCCO On 1 December 2018 Gawad Abaza joined Since Admission, the Board undertook a visit the Board.
His induction programme was to the Companys operating unit in Morocco.
designed to ensure he had the information The October Board meeting was held in andknowledge required to enable him to Casablanca and the following sessions took makean effective contribution to the Board.
placeduring the visit: The VP Retail and the VP Commercial Fuels The programme focused on enhancing his and Lubricants delivered presentations to understanding of VivoEnergy and its business, the Independent Non-Executive Directors including its markets, customers, competition, on their respective businesses.
Led by members of the Morocco team, Gawads induction programme to date has various site visits were arranged for the included the following: Independent Non-Executive Directors, An induction presentation on duties and including to: responsibilities as a Director of a UK listed The Roches Noires lubricants company given by Freshfields Bruckhaus blending plant: Deringer LLP and JP Morgan Cazenove.
The Mohammedia depot: and Meetings with the Head of HSSE to Two retail service stations.
Visiting the business in Morocco enabled the Directors to gain a greater understanding and insight into particular issues faced by this operating unit and the business in general.
The Board were positive about the opportunity to improve the breadth and depth of their knowledge of operating units and to engage on an individual level with senior management in Morocco.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 69
