GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE THE ROLE OF THE BOARD THE BOARDS COMMITTEES The Market Disclosure Committee meets at ANDTHEIR ROLE such times as shall be necessary or appropriate.
The Board is collectively responsible for the The members of the Committee are the long-term success of the Vivo Energy Group The Board established three principal Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, the Chief the Group by setting strategic priorities Committees at the time of Admission the Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, for the business.
It is also responsible for Audit and Risk Committee, the Nomination the General Counsel & Company Secretary corporate governance and the overall financial Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
and the Head of Investor Relations.
Each Committee has its own terms of reference approved by the Board which are In addition to the oversight provided by the The Board discharges some of its available on our website.
Membership of Board and its Committees, the Executive responsibilities directly whilst others are each Committee is determined by the Board Directors are supported by the Executive discharged through its principal Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee that help them discharge their Committees and through management.
The Board structure is set duties.
The Executive Committee comprises In order to retain control of key decisions and out below.
the senior leadership team, who have ensure there is a clear division of responsibilities management responsibility for the business between the Board and the running of the The membership, roles and duties discharged operations and support functions.
business, the Board has a formal schedule from Admission to the 31 December 2018 for of matters reserved for its decision which is each Committee is detailed in their respective The Executive Committee is not a decisionavailable on our website.
Committee reports on pages 71 to 95. making body, but an advisory forum to support the Executive Directors to discharge These reserved matters include: The Board has also established the Market their role.
The membership of the Executive Group strategy: Disclosure Committee in order to ensure Committee can be found on pages 64 and timely and accurate disclosure of all information Governance and regulatory compliance: 65.
The Executive Committee plans to meet that is required to be disclosed to the market Financial reporting: regularly in each financial year and relevant to meet the legal and regulatory obligations matters are reported to Board meetings by Major capital commitments: and requirements arising from the listing theChiefExecutive Officer and, as appropriate, Major contracts and agreements: ofthe Companys securities on the London the Chief Financial Officer.
Stock Exchange, including the Listing Rules, Internal controls: the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Significant remuneration changes: Rules, the Market Abuse Regulation and the Stakeholder engagement: and listingonthe Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AUDIT AND RISK NOMINATION REMUNERATION THE BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The role of the Committee is The Committee ensures The role of the Committee to assist the Board in fulfilling there is a formal and is to set, review and its corporate governance appropriate procedure recommend the policy obligations in relation to the for the appointment of onremuneration of the Groups financial reporting, new Directors to the Chairman, Executives and internal control and risk Board.
The Committee senior management team.
is responsible for leading In addition, it monitors In addition, it provides this process and making the implementation of oversight of the internal recommendations theRemuneration Policy.
audit function and the tothe Board.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings since Admission: Board Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee John Daly 4 4 4 4 0 0 4 4 Christian Chammas 4 4 Johan Depraetere 4 4 Thembalihle Hixonia Nyasulu 4 4 4 4 0 0 4 4 1 Javed Ahmed 3 4 0 0 2 Temitope Lawani 3 4 0 0 Carol Arrowsmith 4 4 4 4 0 0 4 4 Christopher Rogers 4 4 4 4 0 0 4 4 3 Gawad Abaza 1 1 Notes: The maximum number of scheduled meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown next to the number attended.
Additional meetings were held as required.
Minutes of Board and Committee meetings are made available to all Directors.
1 Javed Ahmed was unable to attend the May Board meeting due to business commitments agreed prior to Admission.
2 Temitope Lawani was unable to attend the October Board meeting due to business commitments agreed prior to Admission.
3 Gawad Abaza was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2018.
66 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD ACTIVITIES Since Admission, the Board has held four scheduled meetings.
The matters considered and decisions taken by the Board have included the following key matters: Received regular reports from the Chief Executive Officer STRATEGY Received M&A and material project updates FINANCIAL REPORTING Approved the half-year announcement AND PERFORMANCE Approved the interim dividend payment Approved the trading update Review and approval of the 2019 plan RISK MANAGEMENT Received regular updates on HSSE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Approved the insurance renewal Approved the updated manual of authorities Approved the Companys governance framework GOVERNANCE Approved the terms of reference for the principal BoardCommittees Received meeting reports from the Committee Chairs Received updates on developments in corporate governance andregulatory updates Received regular investor relations reports Approved the Companys modern slavery statement Received presentations as part of the Non-Executive Director induction programme Approved the appointment of Gawad Abaza as an Independent LEADERSHIP Non-Executive Director and his appointment asa member of theAudit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 67 GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE CONTINUED DIRECTORS Senior Independent Director INDEPENDENCE With the exception of Javed Ahmed and At Admission, the Board comprised eight The Senior Independent Director is an Temitope Lawani, the Non-Executive Directors Directors.
The Board composition is outlined Independent Non-Executive Director of were deemed on appointment and continue to on page 69.
As announced on 12 November the Board.
This role provides advice and be, independent in accordance with the criteria 2018, Gawad Abaza was appointed as an additional support and experience to the outlined within the Code and are considered Independent Non-Executive Director on Chairman and where necessary, performs to be free from any business interest which 1 December 2018.
From this date, the an intermediary role for other Directors.
could materially interfere with the exercise Boardscomposition meets provision B.
1.2 The Senior Independent Director leads the oftheir judgement.
ofthe Code that at least half the Board, annual appraisaland review of the Chairmans excluding the Chair, comprise independent performance and is available to respond Following Gawad Abazas appointment Non-Executive Directors.
to shareholder concerns when contact on 1 December 2018, the Board had four throughthe normal channels is inappropriate.
Further information on the skills and With effect from this date, the Board experience, Committee membership and other Non-Executive Directors compliedwith provision B.
appointments of each Director can be found in their individual biographies on pages 62 and63.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible In addition, the Board is satisfied that for contributing sound judgement and each Non-Executive Director dedicates In line with best practice, the roles of our objectivity to the Boards deliberations and the necessary amount of time to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are overall decision-making process: providing Companysaffairs and totheir role.
separate, clearly defined and set out in writing.
constructive challenge, and monitoring the The role profiles have been approved by The Board has agreed that each Director delivery of the strategy within the Boards the Board and are available on our website.
shall stand for reappointment at each Annual riskand governance framework.
The keyroles ofour Board are set out below: General Meeting AGM.
All Independent Directors are appointed and re-appointed Company Secretary Chairman by a dual vote, including the approval of It is the responsibility of the Company shareholders excluding our major shareholders.
The Chairmans primary role is to lead the Secretary to ensure that there are good Board and ensure that it operates effectively.
Copies of the Executive Directors service information flows to the Board and its In particular, he sets the agenda and contracts and letters of appointment for Committees.
The Company Secretary advises promotes a culture of open debate between the Non-Executive Directors are available the Board on all legal and corporate governance Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
for inspection by shareholders at each matters and assists the Chairman in ensuring He also has a pivotal role in ensuring effective AGMandduring normal business hours that the Directors have suitably tailored and communication with shareholders and other attheCompanys registered office.
detailed induction and ongoing professional stakeholders and ensures that the members development programmes.
The removal of of the Board are made aware of the views CONFLICTS OF INTEREST theGroup General Counsel & Company ofthemajor investors.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
situations in which they may have interests Chief Executive Officer All Directors have access to the advice and which conflict with those of the Company.
services of the Group General Counsel & The Board has adopted procedures as provided The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for Company Secretary.
Directors may take for in the Companys Articles of Association running the business of the Company in close independent legal and or financial advice at the for authorising existing conflicts of interest collaboration with, and with the support of, Companys expense when it is judged necessary andfor the consideration of, and if appropriate, theExecutive Committee.
in order to discharge their responsibilities authorisation of new situations which may arise.
No such independent advice was Chief Financial Officer The register setting out each Directors sought in the period from Admission to the interests was created at the time of Admission.
The Chief Financial Officer is responsible 31 December 2018.
Since then no additional conflicts of interest forproviding strategic financial leadership have been identified.
The register records oftheCompany and day-to-day management both Javed Ahmeds and Temitope Lawanis of the finance function.
appointment on behalf of the Companys major shareholders.
In addition, where the Directors hold directorships or other similar appointments in companies or organisations not connected with the Company where no conflict of interest has been identified are only registered as potential conflicts authorised and recorded on the register.
As good practice, the Chairman requests each of the Directors to declare any conflict ofinterest at each Board meeting.
68 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
