Governance 56 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Board effectiveness Board induction and development We are committed to ensuring that our Directors have a full understanding of all aspects of our business to ensure they are effective within their roles, through their induction and on-going training.
On joining the Board, Amparo Moraleda was provided with a detailed Board induction induction programme, which was designed to ensure she quickly gained We have a comprehensive induction programme in place for our a full understanding of the Group, including our business, culture and newly appointed Directors.
Each new Director is provided with a values, strategy, governance and financial position.
You can read more tailored programme which includes site visits and meetings with about Amparos induction programme below.
other members of the Board, Executive Committee members and senior management and also covers the Board Committees that On completion of the induction programme, all new Directors should they are joining.
have sufficient knowledge and understanding of the business to enable them to effectively contribute to strategic discussions and oversight of the Group.
Amparo Moraledas induction programme Its essential to be able to make a valuable contribution and to gain a thorough understanding of the Group.
My induction programme has ensured that I have the information and knowledge required to enable me to make an effective contribution to the Board.
Amparo Moraleda Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 June 2017 During the year, Amparo Moraleda joined the Board and her induction programme focused on enhancing her understanding of Vodafone and our business, including our markets, customers, competition, business opportunities and risks.
Amparos induction programme included the following: Our business: Our Group functions: Meetings were held with various Group senior managers to discuss: one-to-one meetings were held with the members of the Executive Committee to discuss our business, strategy Group strategy: and operations: people strategy and remuneration: presentations were also given by the management teams technology and marketing: of the Europe cluster, AMAP region and Enterprise business: and legal and external affairs: visits were undertaken to the headquarters of Vodafone UK, a Vodafone UK store and Vodafones call centre in finance: Stoke-on-Trent UK.
investor relations: and Our Board and governance structure: risk.
training was provided on her duties as a Director and on Vodafones Our Audit and Risk Committee: governance structure: As a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, specific meetings meetings were held with the Chairman and the Chairs of the Boards were also held, these included meetings with: principal Committees: and the Audit and Risk Committee Chair: and attendance at the Morgan Stanley European Technology, Media internal audit.
and Telecom Investor Conference held in November 2017 and our 2017 AGM.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 57 Several deep-dive sessions were held during Board meetings, these Board training and development sessions focused on the Indian, Vodacom, European and Spanish To assist the Board in undertaking its responsibilities, a programme markets and the commercial operations of the Group.
During the year, of training and development is available to all Directors and training our Directors also received regular updates which included consumer, needs are assessed as part of the Board evaluation procedure.
customer service, network and share dealing rules.
The Board also The Board programme includes regular presentations from received reports from the Group General Counsel and Company management and informal meetings to build their understanding Secretary on current legal and governance issues.
Specific and tailored updates were provided by external advisers This year the Board held its strategy day at our Dsseldorf offices, which and management to both the Audit and Risk and Remuneration enabled them to meet with senior managers of Vodafone Germany Committees.
Key themes included trends and changing disclosure and to receive product demonstrations.
In addition, individual Directors requirements regarding financial and narrative reporting, accounting are given the opportunity to visit other local markets.
During the and auditing standards and remuneration developments.
year, Non-Executive Directors visited Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa and Spain.
During these visits, All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group meetings were held with local management teams and included site General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Directors were able to gain greater understanding and insight into independent legal and or financial advice at the Companys expense particular issues faced by the business in those regions.
Directors who when it is judged necessary in order to discharge their responsibilities visited a local market were positive about the opportunity to improve effectively.
No such independent advice was sought in the 2018 the breadth and depth of their knowledge of Vodafone and to engage financial year.
on an individual level with senior management in the respective market.
Local market focus: Vodafone Germany and the Mission to the Moon project As part of this project, Vodafone Germany will be working with Nokia and PTScientists to create the first 4G network on the moon.
Vodafones 4G network will enable the first live-streaming of HD video from the moons surface to a global audience.
During the Boards meeting held in Dsseldorf, a demonstration was given of the new technology being developed as part of this project along with a project presentation from senior management from Vodafone Germany.
The demonstration of this project allowed the Board to see first-hand the innovative work being undertaken in a local market and is a good example of how Vodafone is developing new and exciting mobile network infrastructure.
It allowed the Board to gain a better insight into that local market.
As outlined on pages 60 and 61, an action from the 2017 Board evaluation was to ensure that the Board was provided with opportunities to enhance its engagement with local markets and this is one example of such activities.
See pages 60 and 61 for further details of 60 the Board evaluation process
