OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE BOARD APPOINTMENT PROCESS The Board has delegated oversight of the A formal and transparent procedure for the NOMINATION leadership needs and succession planning for appointment of Gawad Abaza to the Board the Board to the Nomination Committee, was followed.
This procedure, which was led to ensure the Group has the best talent to by the Chairman and was discussed at a full COMMITTEE perform effectively now and in the future.
meeting of the Board, included the evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience MEMBERSHIP and diversity of the Board to ensure that REPORT All members of the Committee are Gawads appointment complemented NonExecutive Directors as defined by the Board.
During the search for a new Independent Non Executive Director, external search consultancy, Committee members Spencer Stuart, was engaged to support with John Daly Chair the recruitment process: they have no other connection with the Company other than Javed Ahmed providing recruitment services.
Although the Temitope Lawani Chair of the Remuneration Committee is a Thembalihle Hixonia Nyasulu member of the Advisory Group for Spencer Carol Arrowsmith Stuart, Spencer Stuart were engaged to search for Board Directors during the IPO process Christopher Rogers andbefore she was appointed to the Board.
Gawad Abaza appointed on 12 December 2018 Spencer Stuart is anaccredited firm under the Enhanced Codeof Conduct for Executive Biographies of all members can be found COMMITTEE CHAIR Search Firms.
JOHN DALY BOARD DIVERSITY MEETINGS Diversity is one of the key talent principles Since Admission there have been no meetings in Vivo Energy.
The Company believes that of the Committee.
As the Company has been employing and developing the top talent from listed for less than a year, the Committee did all backgrounds and with varied experiences not consider it appropriate to meet to consider within the countries we operate in, gives us Board succession.
Board succession planning will a competitive advantage.
Our ambition is to however be reviewed before the end of the increase diversity on our Board in all forms.
2019 financial year and annually thereafter.
We are supportive of the recommendations of the HamptonAlexander Review and are COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD committed to developing the skills, experience On Admission, the Board membership comprised and knowledge of a diverse pipeline of talent.
a NonExecutive Chairman, two Executive As at 31 December 2018, 22% of the Board Directors, two NonExecutive Directors and were women and included Directors from the three Independent NonExecutive Directors.
UK, France, Ireland, Egypt, Belgium, Nigeria, and The Board considered this to be an appropriate South Africa with a wide range of backgrounds blend of commercial and governance and expertise.
experience, independence and challenge and that the diverse range of skills and backgrounds The Nomination Committee is committed to of the Directors would prevent any undue ensuring and promoting a diverse mix of skills, Diversity extends beyond individual or collective influence over the backgrounds and nationalities on the Board.
the Boardroom and the Diversity extends beyond the Boardroom and the Committee supports management in its As set out in its prospectus, prepared before Committee supports efforts to build a diverse organisation.
Over the Admission, the Board committed to comply last five years, we have seen an increase in the management in its efforts to with the Code requirement that at least number of women in professional and skilled half the Board, excluding the chair, should build a diverse organisation.
roles within the Company and currently 27% comprise Independent NonExecutive of staff at these levels are women.
During the Directors, within 12 months of Admission.
last 18 months, we have promoted two female As announced on12 November 2018, to meet employees to the role of Managing Director this requirement, the Boardappointed Gawad and have appointed our first woman to the Abaza with effectfrom 1 December 2018.
Over the coming Prior to the appointment of Gawad Abaza year, the Committee intends to monitor to the Committee on 12 December 2018, progress made at the Board, management and the composition of the Committee did not leadership levels.
technically meet the requirements of the Further information on diversity for the wider Code as disclosed in the IPO prospectus.
workforce can be found in our Strategic Report However, this issue of noncompliance has on page 18. nowbeen addressed.
JOHN DALY COMMITTEE CHAIR 5 MARCH 2019 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 71
