GOVERNANCE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE MEETINGS The role of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee met four times since AUDIT Committee is to monitor and review the Admission.
Details of attendance by members at Groups financial reporting, the effectiveness Committee meetings can be found on page 66. of risk management and internal controls, The ChiefExecutive Officer and Chief Financial AND RISK the Groups whistleblowing procedures and Officer, Company Secretary, Group Financial the integrity of the internal and external Controller and Head of Internal Audit attended audit processes.
committee meetings at the invitation of the COMMITTEE Committee chairman.
The external auditor COMMITTEE KEY RESPONSIBILITIES wasinvited and attended all meetings.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are: An observer from Vitol and Helios may attend REPORT To monitor the integrity of the the meetings of the Committee, as long as financial statements and any formal they have a rightto nominate a Director announcements relating to the Companys tothe Board.
financial performance and to ensure the Committee meetings generally take place financial statements are fair, balanced, shortly before Board meetings at which the and understandable: Committees Chair reports to the Board.
Review significant financial reporting The report sets out the activities of the estimates and judgements contained Committee including the recommendations inthefinancial statements: and matters of particular relevance.
The Board Review the design, implementation and reviews and discusses the Committee meeting effectiveness of the internal controls and minutes at Board meetings.
The Committee riskmanagement system: meets regularly with the external auditors Monitor the effectiveness of the internal and the Head of Internal Audit without audit function: management present in order to discuss anyissues which may have arisen.
Review of tax policies, strategies, disputes COMMITTEE CHAIR and exposures: CHRISTOPHER ROGERS Responsible for the recommendation of COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES appointment, reappointment and removal FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE of external auditors and for reviewing The Committee reviewed the half-year and theireffectiveness and independence: and annual financial statements as well as the Approval of non-audit services.
Specific consideration The Committee reports to the Board was given to the clarity of disclosures, integrity on its activities performed during the of the financial reporting process, compliance year.
All recommendations set forth by with legal and financial reporting standards the Committee to the Board in 2018 and the application of accounting policies were accepted.
The Committee reviewed the Annual Report MEMBERSHIP and assessed whether it is fair, balanced Members of the Committee are all and understandable to shareholders and Independent Non-Executive Directors.
clearly depicts the Groups strategy, business Members have gained knowledge and model and financial performance and experience over the years through various position.
In making these assessments the Risk management and corporate and professional appointments, Committee reviewed disclosures, discussed including recent and relevant financial internal controls, founded on the requirements with senior management experience.
The Board is satisfied with the and inspected representations made to the robust and reliable financial composition of the Committee and that it auditors.
Reports to support the going concern combines a balanced mix of commercial, assumption, the long-term viability of the reporting, are essential financial andaudit knowledge, with the Group, principal risks and the effectiveness Chairman of the Committee, Christopher toagrowing business.
of internal controls were reviewed.
Rogers, meeting the requirements of recent, The Committee endorsed the Annual Report.
Other activities of the Committee comprised: Committee members Consideration of the ERP system implementation process: All members, unless otherwise stated, wereappointed in May 2018: Accounting considerations in relation to share-based payments and their valuations: Christopher Rogers Chair Consideration of the preparation of the John Daly Engen acquisition: Thembalihle Hixonia Nyasulu Review of the ethics and compliance Carol Arrowsmith reports: and Gawad Abaza appointed December 2018 Endorsement of the Committees terms Biographies of Committee members can be of reference.
72 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Areas of significant judgement considered by the Committee in 2018 included: Key judgements and estimates Committee actions Conclusions Going concern assumption must be assessed Reviewed the financial performance, cash flow The Group continues to generate todetermine whether it is appropriate to adopt generation and forward-looking plan.
positive free cash flows and maintains the going concern basis of accounting, and to anadequateheadroom.
identify any material uncertainties to the Groups Reviewed loan covenant ratios, liquidity, ability to continue to remain a going concern capitalresources and headroom.
The Committee concluded that there are over a period of at least 12 months from the no material uncertainties related to events date of the approval of the financial statements.
Considered any significant events or conditions that may cast significant whichmayhave impacted the assumptions.
doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern and as such considers it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Long-term viability assessment reflects Assessed the appropriateness of the The Committee agreed a five-year period the Groups current position and principal reviewperiod.
is an appropriate timeframe based on the risks, andhow changes in these factors strategic business planning cycle and the  of the Group, Reviewed the results of a modelled assessment term of the Groups primary financing overapre-determined period.
that included the effect of a severe but plausible arrangements.
combined downside scenario on the available headroom over the review period.
High impact principal risks and uncertainties were adequately modelled in the assessment.
Following the review and analysis the Committee is in agreement with the Groups ability to continue operating andto meet its financial liabilities as theyfall due over the five-year period.
Further details relating to the viability statement can be found in the StrategicReport on page 55.
Reviewed the accounting policy for The Committee approved the accounting non-GAAPfinancial measures, ensured policy and agreed that non-GAAP financial cleardefinitions and consistent application measures are used for financial analysis, ofthemeasures.
planning, reporting and key management performancemeasures.
Ensured well balanced approach of GAAP andnon-GAAP financial measures throughout The Committee confirmed that reporting the Interim financial statements and the non-GAAP financial measures in addition AnnualReport.
to IFRS measures provides an enhanced understanding of the results andrelated trends as well as increasing the clarity of thecore operating results.
Non-GAAP financial measures have been appropriately disclosed and reconciled inthefinancial statements.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 73 GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Areas of significant judgement considered by the Committee in 2018 Key judgements and estimates Committee actions Conclusions Other government benefits receivables.
Considered the assessment ofthe recoverability The Committee concluded that the risk of other government benefits receivables.
receivables were properly stated and thelevel of provisioning appropriate.
Considered the appropriateness of the The Committee concluded that the keyjudgements of the corresponding relatedtax positions are appropriate.
Determining the Groups income tax taxpositions made.
positions requires interpretation of the tax laws in numerous jurisdictions.
Resolution of tax positions taken can take several years to complete and can be difficult to predict.
Therefore, judgement is required todeterminethe Groups income tax liability.
Challenged the methodology and The Committee is in agreement with the appropriateness of the assumptions including: appropriateness of the analysis performed The significant judgement involved in impairment bymanagement, the judgements applied Assumptions in relation to terminal testing relates to the assumptions underlying andthe estimates used.
growthinthe businesses at the end the determination of the value-in-use of the ofthefive-yearplan cycle.
Groupscash generating units that goodwill The Committee concluded that the Sensitivity analysis on the discount rate wasallocated to.
significant assumptions used for determining andprojected cash flows.
the recoverable amount were appropriate and sufficiently robust.
The Committee is satisfied that Goodwill is not impaired.
Further details can be found in note 12 oftheconsolidated financial statements.
74 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERNAL CONTROLS AND EXTERNAL AUDIT APPOINTMENT NON-AUDIT SERVICES RISKMANAGEMENT Subsequent to the IPO at 10 May 2018, External auditors are restricted from providing The Committee reviews and assesses risks and  LLP PwC was non-audit services which are prohibited by their impact and ensures appropriate controls appointed as the Group external auditor the Financial Reporting Council FRC Revised are designed and implemented to mitigate previously  Ethical Standard 2016.
Together with the internal audit Accountants N. V. who were appointed non-audit services are included in the andinternal control functions, continued focus following a competitive tender in 2011. auditor independence policy, along with a was placed on key areas of risk and the system The Committee concluded that PwC monetary threshold.
isthemost appropriate firm given: Any approved non-audit services with fees The good working relationship with A key priority for 2018 was the implementation exceeding the threshold or which are not theaudit teams at all levels: of a streamlined process for the identification stipulated within the policy must be reviewed PwCs extensive knowledge and of risk within the organisation.
As a result, a and approved by the Committee.
The external understanding of the business: risk register was implemented and reviewed auditor is only considered for non-audit bythe Committee on a regular basis.
The areas services in instances where they have the Their proactive and professional approach: of focus include financial, operational and most appropriate technical skills and expertise.
Appropriate audit fee in respect compliance risks factors.
Through this process On an annual basis the Committee reviews and oftheservices provided: and the Groups principal key risks were identified.
approves the policy for non-audit services.
Ability to cope and respond to The Committee further reviewed the afastchanging environment.
AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS internal controls of the business as a whole.
The Committee oversees the relationship In accordance with current professional Details relating to the principal risks and with the external auditors and monitors the standards, there will be a mandatory uncertainties of the Group as well as the progress of the external audit.
Collectively the partnerrotation every five years.
mitigating controls can be found in the Committee is satisfied with the execution StrategicReport on pages 51 to 54.
The tender process for audit-related of the audit process and believes it has been engagements and non-audit services are The Committee completed its review of the executed with the required level of skills and initiated and approved by the Committee.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal expertise.
A deep-dive review of the 2018 The Committee confirms compliance with controls including the risk management, since auditwill be conducted during the year.
theprovisions of the Competition and Admission and up to the date of this Annual MarketsAuthoritys Order for the financial Report.
No significant weaknesses or instances COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS year under review.
of significant control failure have been identified The Board assessed the performance of the during the year.
Given the robust processes Committee and concluded it was operating EXTERNAL AUDIT INDEPENDENCE which have been established the Committee effectively and within its terms of reference.
The Committee established an auditor isconfident in its conclusion of the effectiveness Further to that the Board considered the independence policy which is designed to of the internal controls and risk management Committees roles and responsibilities remained safeguard the continued independence of system.
The Committee has put forward this appropriate for the current needs of the theexternal audit firm.
The policy sets out: conclusion to the Board.
Given that the Board and Committee The audit fee: were only constituted in May 2018 with the INTERNAL AUDIT final Director being appointed to the Board Oversight of audit firms who perform The Committee reviewed and approved and Committee in December 2018, the Board auditservices: and the internal audit plan and the performance is satisfied with the activities and progress the Audit-related and non-audit services of audits in line with the three-year plan.
Committee hasmade during the year.
Internal audit findings including remedial actionplans were presented to the Committee.
CHRISTOPHER ROGERS AUDIT FEES COMMITTEE CHAIR The Committee reviews the audit fee The Committee is satisfied with the structure, resourcing and terms of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
In addition, on a quarterly Furthermore the experience of team members basis, the Committee reviews the non-audit and their expertise is considered appropriate to services that the auditor provides to the Group.
address all categories of risk within the business.
Overall the total amount paid to PwC does Thereview and assessment of the not represent a significant portion of their total  is performed on an revenues.
In 2018, theGroup incurred total ongoing basis, including the effectiveness of fees of $4.9 million 2017: $3.7 million to PwC.
Any improvement opportunities Of this total, $1.8 million 2017:$1.5 million identified are communicated and addressed related to audit work and $3.1 million with the head of the function.
The functions 2017:$2.2 million related to audit-related and performance is assessed against the approved non-audit services.
Non-audit services mainly internal audit plan.
An External Quality related to the IPO aswell as some tax advisory Assessment EQA of the function was carried services and review engagements.
Audit fees out in 2017 and found that the Internal Audit are disclosed in note 7 of the consolidated function was effective in providing assurance financial statements.
to the Group and conforms with the vast majority of CIIA Chartered Institute of InternalAuditors standards.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 75
