Governance 62 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Nominations and Governance Committee Dear Shareholder, The Nominations and Governance Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Nominations and the Committee continues its work of ensuring Governance Committees report for the year ended 31 March 2018. that theBoard composition is right and that our This year, the Committee welcomed two new members, Sir Crispin governance iseffective.
Davis and Renee James and our main focus has been the succession of Executive Directors and Board composition.
The process we followed Chairman for identifying our new Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer is set Gerard Kleisterlee Chairman of the Board out on page 63.
As I said in my Chairmans letter on page 3, on behalf of the Board, I would like to record our gratitude to Vittorio Colao for Members an outstanding tenure and to express our confidence in Nick Read and Sir Crispin Davis Margherita Della Valle in their new roles.
It is a testament to the strength Valerie Gooding and depth of the Vodafone senior management and leadership team Renee James that these appointments have been made from within the Company.
The Committee is also delighted to welcome two new Non-Executive Key objective: Directors to the Board, Amparo Moraleda and Michel Demar.
An insight To make sure the Board comprises individuals with the necessary into the Committees appointment process for Michel can be found skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective on page 63 and the induction programme for Amparo is shown in discharging its responsibilities and to have oversight of all on page 56. matters relating to corporate governance.
To find the most suitable candidates for the Board, the Committee considers the skills and experience required to align the Responsibilities: Boards composition with the Companys strategic goals whilst Assessing the composition, structure and size of the Board maintaining an appropriate level of diversity.
The Committee also and its Committees and making recommendations on ensures that initiatives are in place to develop the talent pipeline.
appointments to the Board: As Chairman of the Committee, I take an active role in overseeing the progress made towards improving diversity in appointments to the Responsibility for Board and senior executive Board, Executive Committee and senior management in a way that succession planning: is consistent with the long-term strategy of the Group.
The Committee Overseeing the performance evaluation of the Board, its will continue to monitor the balance of the Board to ensure that broad Committees and individual Directors: and enough expertise is available from the existing members, and will recommend further appointments if desirable.
Monitoring developments in all matters relating to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
Changes to the Board and Committees Following the 2017 AGM, Valerie Gooding became the Senior The Committee is composed solely of independent Independent Director and David Nish became Chairman of the Audit Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met six times and Risk Committee.
Amparo was appointed on 1 June 2017 and Michel during the year and attendance by members at Committee joined the Board on 1 February 2018.
Michel will join our Remuneration meetings can be seen on page 53.
Committee meetings were Committee with effect from 27 July 2018. attended by Committee members, with other individuals and As previously announced, at our AGM on 27 July 2018 Dr Mathias external advisers invited to attend all or part of the meetings Dpfner will not seek re-election after more than three years of service as appropriate.
and Margherita will be appointed as a Director and Chief Financial Officer.
On 30 September 2018 Vittorio will step down as the Chief The chart below illustrates how the Committee allocated its time Executive and as a Director and will be succeeded by Nick.
Assessment of the independence of the Nominations and Governance Committee  allocation of time % The Committee and the Board are satisfied that the external commitments of the Non-Executive Directors and of me, your 1 Corporate governance matters 15% 5 Chairman, do not conflict with our duties and commitments 1 2 Board and Committee as Directors of the Company.
Our Directors must: report any changes 4 composition 15% to their commitments to the Board: notify the Company of actual 2 3 Succession planning and talent 55% or potential conflicts or a change in circumstances relating to an existing 4 Board effectiveness 12.5% authorisation: and complete an annual conflicts questionnaire.
5 Other 2.5% Any conflicts identified are considered and, as appropriate, authorised 3 by the Board.
A register of authorised conflicts is reviewed periodically.
The Committee reviewed the independence of all the Non-Executive Directors.
All are considered independent and they continue to make effective contributions.
The Committee recognises that Samuel Jonah The terms of reference of the Committee, which were reviewed has served on the Board for more than nine years but remain confident in March 2018, are available on the Vodafone website at that Samuel continues to demonstrate independent character and judgement in carrying out his role.
All Non-Executive Directors have submitted themselves for re-election 3 at the 2018 AGM, with the exception of Mathias.
Michel and Margherita will be elected for the first time in accordance with our Articles of Association.
The Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors appointment letters are available for inspection at our registered office and at our AGM.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 63 Board evaluation Appointment process The Committee oversaw the internal evaluation of the Board and Committees, details of the review and actions to be taken over the next When considering the recruitment of new Directors, the 12 months can be found on page 60.
Committee adopts a formal and transparent procedure with due regard to the skills, knowledge and level of experience required Succession planning as well as diversity.
In addition to the succession planning for Board roles, the Committee received several presentations during the year from the Chief Executive Executive Directors and Group Human Resources Director on succession planning for senior In anticipation of Vittorio Colaos decision to step down from management.
Potential successors have been identified for the top his role as Chief Executive, the Nominations and Governance senior management positions and the Committee reviewed these plans Committee stepped up its regular succession planning process and during the year.
established a succession planning subcommittee comprising me, your Chairman, who led the subcommittee, David Nish, Sir Crispin The Committee is satisfied that adequate succession planning Davis, Valerie Gooding and, until his retirement from the Board, Phil is currently in place for the Executive Directors and senior management, Yea.
The subcommittee was supported by Egon Zehnder which and will continue to review succession planning and monitor the is independent of, and only provides talent services to, the Company.
progress and success of the development plans which have been The succession process involved Egon Zehnder undertaking established for relevant employees.
The Committee also monitors assessments of, and providing a development programme for, a schedule on the length of tenure, skills and experience of the Board.
potential internal candidates and identifying potential candidates Diversity in the external market.
The subcommittee met six times and The Committee through Vodafones Board Diversity Policy is committed extensively discussed the merits of the external and internal to supporting diversity and inclusion in the Boardroom.
It concluded that the Company had very strong diversity of skills and experience, age, gender, disability, sexual internal candidates and that making an internal appointment orientation, gender identity, cultural background and belief.
would best serve continuity in leadership which was important.
The subcommittee met repeatedly with the internal candidates The Committee annually reviews and agrees the Board Diversity Policy and had several in-depth interviews with the leading contender.
and monitors the progress made at the Board and management and leadership levels during the financial year.
The Board concurred with the subcommittees recommendations and as a result on 27 July 2018 Nick Read will be appointed as The Committee also monitors Vodafones compliance with the targets Chief Executive Designate until 1 October 2018 when he will become outlined in the Davies Report and Hampton-Alexander Review and the Chief Executive in succession to Vittorio Colao.
On 27 July 2018 I am pleased to report that following Amparos appointment on 1 June Margherita Della Valle, currently Deputy Chief Financial Officer, 2017, 33% of our Board roles are currently held by women.
This exceeds will be appointed Chief Financial Officer and a Director.
the 25% target set out in the Davies Report and meets the 2020 target set out in the Hampton-Alexander Review.
Our long-term ambition is to increase diversity on our Board in all forms, which is supported by our Board Diversity Policy.
Our Board diversity statistics can be foundon page 49.
Diversity extends beyond the Boardroom and the Committee supports management in its efforts to build a diverse organisation.
Currently 29% Nick Read Margherita Della Valle of our management and leadership roles are held by women and To be appointed Chief Executive To be appointed Chief Financial we would like this to increase to at least 30% by 2020.
Designate on 27 July 2018 Officer and a Director on 27 July 2018 Governance Non-Executive Directors The Committee receives updates on corporate governance During the search for a new Non-Executive Director, external developments during the year and has considered the impact search consultancy, Russell Reynolds Associates, was engaged of those developments on Vodafone.
The Committee also reviewed to support with the recruitment process: they have no other Vodafones compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code connection with the Company other than providing recruitment and was satisfied that Vodafone complied with the Code during the year.
Russell Reynolds Associates is an accredited firm under theEnhanced Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
Details of the different stages of the appointment process that the Committee followed in relation to the appointment process of Michel Demar canbe found below: Gerard Kleisterlee On behalf of the Nominations and Governance Committee Step Step Step Step Step 1 2 3 4 5 15 May 2018 Engage Shortlisting Interview Recommendation Appointment with search of candidates process with to the Board terms drafted consultancy by Committee onthe chosen and agreed and provide Committee.
with the them with and Chief selected a search Executive.
Michel Demar Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 February 2018
