Governance 64 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Audit and Risk Committee Dear Shareholder, The Committee continues to play a key role in the On the following pages I have set out the Audit and Risk governance over the Groups financial reporting, Committees report for the 2018 financial year which provides risk management, control and assurance processes an overview of the areas considered by the Committee during the year.
Through this report I am also aiming to give some insight into the Chairman and financial expert Committees activities and its role in protecting the interests of our David Nish from 28 July 2017 shareholders through ensuring the integrity of the Groups published Nick Land to 28 July 2017 financial information and the effectiveness of its risk management, controls and related processes.
Members Sir Crispin Davis This year has seen a number of changes to the Committee including: Dame Clara Furse Amparo Moraleda my appointment as Chairman and financial expert, having recent and from 28 July 2017 relevant financial experience for the purposes of the US SarbanesDavid Nish Oxley Act and the UK Corporate Governance Code: Phil Yea to 28 July 2017 the appointment of Amparo Moraleda, who brings her international Key objectives business experience, engineering background and IT and technology Providing oversight of the Groups system of internal control, expertise to the role: and business risk management processes and related compliance the departure of both Nick Land and Phil Yea, who did not seek reactivities, effective governance over the appropriateness of the election at the Companys 2017 annual general meeting after more Groups financial reporting including the adequacy of disclosures than ten years of service.
and monitoring the performance of both the internal audit function and the external auditors,  LLP PwC.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank both Nick and Phil Responsibilities for their years of service to Vodafone and to this Committee as well as for ensuring the smooth transfer of knowledge to myself and Monitoring the integrity of published financial information and Amparo as part of the succession plan.
We believe that the Committee reviewing significant financial reporting judgements, including as a whole continues to have competence relevant to the sector providing advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report is in which the Group operates.
fair, balanced and understandable and the appropriateness of the long-term viability statement: In addition to our standard annual work plan, this year the Committee has also focused on the following significant issues: Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit: preparations for the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers in the 2019 Reviewing the Groups internal financial controls, internal control financial year and IFRS 16 Leases in the 2020 financial year, all of systems, the work of the Internal Auditor and compliance with which will have a material effect on the Groups accounting: section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act: and preparations for the adoption of EU General Data Protection Monitoring the Groups risk management system and reviewing Regulation, which comes into force on 25 May 2018: the principal risks facing the Group, including the management and mitigation of those risks.
the accounting, reporting and disclosure implications of the agreement to combine Vodafone India with Idea Cellular into a new The terms of reference of the Committee, which were updated joint venture: and in March 2018, are available on vodafone.
ensuring the continued independence of the Groups How the Committee operated external auditors.
The Committee met five times during the year and attendance by members at Committee meetings can be seen on page 53.
Looking ahead, these key areas are also likely to remain significant areas We routinely conduct deep dive reviews, together with specific risk of focus for the Committee for the 2019 financial year.
management activities as set out below: The Committee also performed a number of detailed in-depth reviews in September and March, we assess issues affecting the Groups on the principal risks for the business, with risk owners discussing half-year and year end reporting and approve the principal risks: the mitigation and management of risks relating to cyber threat and information security, money laundering, sanctions, anti-bribery, in November and May, we conclude this work and advise the technology failure, continuity and crisis management, IT transformation Board on the Groups external financial reporting: and and telecommunications regulation compliance.
while each meeting has reviews of risk and compliance related Every three years the Board appoints an external organisation matters, the January meeting is particularly focused on these.
to perform an independent review of the Committee to evaluate its performance.
The last review was performed in March 2016 and Meetings of the Committee generally take place the day before concluded that the Board members considered the Committee Board meetings and I report to the Board, as a separate agenda to be thorough and fully effective in meeting its objectives.
The next item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular review is expected to take place in March 2019.
Additionally, an internal relevance, with the Board receiving copies of the Committee assessment facilitated by an independent third party, occurs annually.
The external auditors are invited to each meeting and This reported positively on the functioning of the Committee for the I also meet with the external lead audit partner outside the formal current year.
I am confident that the Committee has the necessary skills Committee process throughout the year.
The Committee also and experience to continue to meet the challenges ahead.
regularly meets separately with each of PwC, the Chief Financial David Nish Officer, the Group Risk and Compliance Director and the Group On behalf of the Audit and Audit Director without others being present.
Risk Committee 15 May 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 65 The Committee received regular reports from management on the Financial reporting programmes for the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the with customers and IFRS 16 Leases, both of which are likely to have Groups financial reporting is to review, with both management and a substantial effect on the Groups accounting when adopted for the the external auditors, the appropriateness of the half-year and annual years ending 31 March 2019 and 2020 respectively.
The implementation financial statements concentrating on, amongst other matters: programmes for these new accounting pronouncements continued the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: to progress satisfactorily during the year, with the Committee remaining focused on the key decision points relating to the choice of IT system, material areas in which significant judgements have been systems integration, the methodology in which the standard would applied or where significant issues have been discussed with the be adopted and programme resourcing.
external auditors: Following discussions with management and the external auditors, providing advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the the Committee approved the disclosures of these accounting policies long-term viability statement: and practices which are set out in note 1 Basis of preparation to the the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial consolidated financial statements, including further qualitative and reporting standards and relevant financial and governance quantitative detail on the impacts of IFRS 9, 15 and 16. reporting requirements: Significant judgements any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial The areas of focus considered and actions taken by the Committee reporting: and in relation to the 2018 Annual Report, which have been revised to remove the Groups change in presentation currency from sterling an assessment of whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, to the euro which was completed in the 2017 financial year, are outlined balanced and understandable.
We discussed these with the external auditors during the year and, where appropriate, these have been addressed as areas of audit Accounting policies and practices focus as outlined in the Audit Report on pages 93 to 101.
The Committee received reports from management in relation to: the identification of critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty: significant accounting policies: new accounting pronouncements, including the adoption of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16: and proposed disclosures of these in the 2018 Annual Report.
Area of focus Actions taken conclusion Revenue recognition The timing of revenue recognition, the recognition of revenue on The Committee challenged management over the basis of revenue a gross or net basis and the treatment of discounts, incentives and accounting, with management confirming that revenue reporting commissions are complex areas of accounting.
remained consistent with prior years.
In addition, there is heightened risk in relation to the accounting for The Committee also reviewed PwCs audit plan which identified the revenue as a result of the inherent complexity of newly introduced primary risks attaching to the audit of revenue to be: systems and changing pricing models.
the controls over the underlying accuracy of billing systems: and See note 1 Basis of preparation.
presumed fraud risk, and reported on the results of its audit work inthis area to the Committee at both the half-year and year end.
The Committee was satisfied with the appropriateness of revenue recognised in the financial statements.
Taxation The Group is subject to a range of tax claims and related legal actions The Group Tax Director presented on both provisioning and disclosure across a number of jurisdictions where it operates.
The most material of tax contingencies and deferred tax asset recognition at the claim continues to be from the Indian tax authorities in relation to our November 2017 and May 2018 Committee meetings.
He also provided acquisition of Vodafone India Limited in 2007. an update on upcoming changes in the wider tax landscape that were potentially relevant to the Group.
PwC also identified this as an area of See note 29 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings.
Further, the Group has extensive accumulated tax losses and a key The Committee challenged both management and PwC on the legal management judgement is whether a deferred tax asset should be judgements underpinning both the provisioning and disclosures recognised in respect of these losses.
adopted in relation to material elements of taxation contingent See note 6 Taxation.
liabilities and the IFRS basis of, and operating assumptions underlying, the deferred tax assets recognised at the year end.
The Committee was satisfied with the approach adopted by management to the recognition of income tax and deferred tax balances and related disclosure in the financial statements.
Governance 66 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Audit and Risk Committee continued Area of focus Actions taken conclusion Impairment testing The judgements in relation to impairment testing continue to relate The Committee received detailed reporting from management and primarily to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions made, including: in use of the Groups businesses, being the achievability of the longthe consistent application of managements methodology: term business plans and the macroeconomic and related modelling assumptions underlying the valuation process.
the achievability of the business plans: At 31 March 2017 and 2018 these judgements were extended to assumptions in relation to terminal growth in the businesses at the include the assessment of the fair value of Vodafone India following the end of the plan period: and announcement of the agreement to combine into a new joint venture discount rates.
with Idea Cellular and its treatment as a discontinued operation valued at fair value less costs to sell.
This remains an area of audit focus and PwC provided detailed reporting The fair value of Vodafone India was reduced at 31 March 2018 giving on these matters to the Committee, including sensitivity testing.
rise to a non-cash charge of 3.2 billion 2.2 billion net of tax.
The Committee was satisfied with both the appropriateness See note 4 Impairment losses.
of analysis performed by management including the judgements made and estimates used and the impairment related disclosures.
Liability provisioning The Group is subject to a range of claims and legal actions from a The Committee received a presentation from the Groups General number of sources, including competitors, regulators, customers, Counsel and Company Secretary and the Director of Litigation in both suppliers and, on occasion, fellow shareholders in Group subsidiaries.
November 2017 and May 2018 on managements assessment of the most significant claims.
The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities is an issue where legal and management judgements are important and As this is an area of audit focus, PwC also reviews these claims and accordingly an area of Committee focus.
relevant legal advice received by the Group, to form a view on the appropriateness of the level of provisioning that is shared with the See note 29 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings.
The Committee challenged both management and PwC on the level of provisioning for legal claims, requesting additional details where relevant.
The Committee was satisfied that the amounts recorded in the financial statements appropriately reflect the risk of loss.
Fair, balanced and understandable Regulators and our financial reporting As part of the Committees assessment of whether the Annual There has been no correspondence from regulators, including the Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and FRCs Corporate Reporting Review team, in relation to our financial provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the reporting during the 2018 financial year.
The Committee is committed Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, to improving the effectiveness and clarity of the Groups corporate the Committee reviews the processes and controls that underpin its reporting and has continued to encourage management to consider, preparation, ensuring that all contributors, the core reporting team and adopt where appropriate, initiatives by regulatory bodies which and senior management are fully aware of the requirements and would enhance our reporting, including FRC Labs projects on Digital their responsibilities.
This includes reviewing the use and disclosure Future, Risk and Viability reporting, Dividend policy and practice of alternative performance measures or non-GAAP measures and Reporting on Performance Metrics.
and the financial reporting responsibilities of the Directors under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole as well as meeting the needs of wider society.
In addition to reviewing an early draft of the Annual Report to enable timely review and comment, the Committee also takes an active role in reviewing financial results announcements as well as drawing on the work of the Groups Disclosure Committee, which reviews and assesses the Annual Report and investor communications.
These processes allowed us to provide positive assurance to the Board to assist them in making the statement required by the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 67 Long-term viability statement Effectiveness of the external audit process As part of the Committees responsibility to provide advice to the Board The Committee reviewed the quality of the external audit throughout on the form and basis underlying the long-term viability statement the year and considered the performance of PwC, taking into account as set out on pages 44 and 45, the Committee reviewed the process and the Committees own assessment and feedback, the results of a detailed assessment of the Groups prospects made by management, including: survey of senior finance personnel across the Group focusing on a range of factors we considered relevant to audit quality, feedback from the the review period and alignment with the Groups internal auditors on their performance against their own performance objectives long-term forecasts: and the firm-wide audit quality inspection report issued by the FRC the assessment of the capacity of the Group to remain viable in June 2017. after consideration of future cash flows, expected debt service Based on these reviews, the Committee concluded that there had requirements, undrawn facilities and access to capital markets: been appropriate focus and challenge by PwC on the primary areas the modelling of the financial impact of certain of the Groups of the audit and that they had applied robust challenge and scepticism principal risks materialising using severe but plausible scenarios: and throughout the audit.
Consequently, as noted above, the Committee has recommended to the Board that they be reappointed at the AGM ensuring clear and enhanced disclosures in the Annual Report in July 2018. as to why the assessment period selected was appropriate to the Group, what qualifications and assumptions were made and how Independence and objectivity the underlying analysis was performed, consistent with recent In its assessment of the independence of the auditors and in accordance FRC pronouncements.
with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards standard on independence, the Committee receives details of any relationships between the Company and PwC that may have a bearing on their External audit independence and receives confirmation that they are independent The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the of the Company within the meaning of the securities laws administered relationship with, and performance of, the external auditors.
by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
This includes making the recommendation on the appointment, During the 2017 financial year, we were notified by our lead audit reappointment and removal of the external auditors, assessing their partner that a company, for which a number of PwC partners were independence on an ongoing basis, involvement in fee negotiations, acting as administrators, was considering litigation against the Group.
approving the statutory audit fee, the scope of the statutory audit and The Committee, in consultation with the Groups legal advisers, approval of the appointment of the lead audit engagement partner.
reviewed the implications on audit independence from the roles played Tenure by PwCs partners as administrators and PwC as the Groups statutory PwC were appointed by shareholders as the Groups external auditors auditors in the context of relevant regulations and ethical standards.
in July 2014 following a formal tender process.
The audit will be put out Further, the Committee consulted with the UK Financial Reporting to tender at least every ten years.
The lead audit partner, Andrew Kemp, Council and a number of institutional investors.
has held the position for three years and will be required to step down To address any potential threat to their audit independence, following the completion of the 2019 audit.
PwC put in place a number of safeguards including ensuring both The Committee has recommended that PwC be reappointed under the administration and audit teams were physically separate and had the current external audit contract for the 2019 financial year and the no interactions, that working papers and other highly confidential Directors will be proposing their reappointment at the AGM in July 2018. material were separately stored with highly restricted access and that The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services Order the lead group engagement partner would be solely responsible for the 2014 for the financial year under review.
audit implications of the potential litigation.
In response, we requested that both PwCs Compliance Department and its independent nonAudit risk executives provide oversight of the effectiveness of the safeguards put The audit risk identification process is considered a key factor in the in place and report to the Committee on these safeguards on a regular overall effectiveness of the external audit process and during the 2018 basis.
PwC confirmed to the Committee that these safeguards were financial year we received a detailed audit plan from PwC identifying in place, were monitored internally and operated effectively throughout their audit scope, planning materiality and their assessment of key risks the year.
which are set outlined in the Audit Report on pages 93 to 101.
The Committee concluded that this position, which remained materially The key audit risks for the 2018 financial year, were unchanged from the unchanged during the year, was not prohibited and PwC remained 2017 financial year except for: independent for the purposes of the audit for the 2018 financial year.
a new risk relating to the accuracy of share of results from joint Audit fees ventures following the merger of Vodafones and Liberty Globals For the 2018 financial year, the Committee considered the ongoing operating businesses in the Netherlands: fee proposal, was actively engaged in agreeing audit scope changes the implications of the agreement to combine Vodafone India with and, following the receipt of formal assurance that their fees were Idea Cellular into a new joint venture: and appropriate for the scope of the work required, agreed a charge from PwC and related member firms of 21 million for statutory audit the removal of the risk relating to the change in the Groups services.
This included 5 million of fees in respect of advance audit presentation currency from sterling to the euro.
procedures in relation to the forthcoming implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
These risks are regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure the See note 3 Operating profit for further details.
external auditors areas of audit focus remain appropriate.
Governance 68 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Audit and Risk Committee continued Non-audit fees The Group Audit and Risk Committee reviews the progress against As one of the ways in which it seeks to protect the independence the approved audit plan and the results of audit activities, with focus and objectivity of the external auditors, the Committee has a policy on unsatisfactory audits results and cross entity audits, being audits governing the engagement of the external auditors to provide non-audit performed across multiple markets with the same scope.
Audit results services which precludes PwC from playing any part in management are analysed by risk, process and geography to highlight movements or decision making, providing certain services such as valuation work in the control environment and areas that require attention.
and the provision of accounting services.
It also sets a presumption During the year, Internal Audit coverage was focused on principal that PwC should only be engaged for non-audit services where there risks, including cyber threat and information security, data privacy is no legal or practical alternative supplier and, consistent with recent and GDPR readiness, technology resilience and the delivery of major UK regulation, includes a cap on the amount of non-audit fees that can IT transformation programmes.
Relevant audit results are reported be billed.
at the same time as the Committees in-depth review with the risk For certain specific permitted services, the Committee has preowner, which allows the Committee to have an integrated view on the approved that PwC can be engaged by management, subject to the way the risk is managed.
policies set out above, and subject to: Assurance was also provided in relation to key areas of the company a 60,000 fee limit for individual engagements: Code of Conduct such as Health and Safety, Anti-bribery and Legal and Regulatory, as well as for the core financial processes such as Billing, a 500,000 total fee limit for services where there is no legal Accounts Receivable and Sales Commissions.
alternative: and Dedicated focus has been put on the Enterprise operations, given a 500,000 total fee limit for services where there is no practical the complexity of processes, products and services.
performed by the Share Service Centre in India also received specific attention due to their significant bearing on the effectiveness of overall For all other services or those permitted services that exceed these global processes.
specified fee limits, I, as Chairman, pre-approve these permitted services.
Management are responsible for ensuring that issues raised by Internal Non-audit fees were 5 million of which 1.4 million was for services Audit are addressed within the agreed timetable, and their timely where there was no legal alternative and 3.6 million for services where completion is reviewed by the Committee.
there was no practical alternative supplier.
Non-audit fees represented 24% of audit fees for the 2018 financial year 2017: 22%, 2016: 11%.
Assessment of Groups system of internal control, including The amount for year ended 31 March 2018 includes non-recurring risk management framework fees that were incurred during the preparations for a potential IPO The Groups risk assessment process and the way in which significant of Vodafone New Zealand and the merger of Vodafone India and Idea business risks are managed is a key area of focus for the Committee.
The amount for the year ended 31 March 2017 primarily arose Our activity here was driven primarily by the Groups assessment of its from work on regulatory filings prepared in anticipation of a potential principal risks and uncertainties, as set out on pages 38 to 45 and our IPO of Vodafone India that was under consideration prior to the review included reports from the Group Risk and Compliance Director, agreement for the merger of Vodafone India and Idea Cellular.
See note with whom I met regularly during the year, on the Groups risk evaluation 3 Operating profit for further details.
process as well as a review of changes to significant risks identified at both operating entity and Group levels.
Internal control and risk management The Group has in place an internal control environment to protect The Committee has the primary responsibility for the oversight of the the business from the material risks which have been identified.
Groups system of internal control, including the risk management Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining framework and the work of the Internal Audit function.
adequate internal controls over financial reporting and we have responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of these controls.
Internal audit We reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its control The Internal Audit function provides independent and objective environment.
Our work here was driven primarily by the Group Audit assurance over the design and operating effectiveness of the system Directors reports on the effectiveness of internal controls and any of internal control, through a risk based approach.
The function reports identified fraud included any involving management or employees into the Group Audit and Risk Committee, and administratively to the with a significant role in internal controls as well as an external Group Chief Financial Officer.
The function is composed of teams across benchmark exercise of the Groups compliance framework involving Group domains and local markets, allowing access to specialist skills interviews, documentation reviews and comparisons to other FTSE through Group centres of excellence, as well as local knowledge and 100 companies of a similar size, complexity and geographical footprint.
The function has a high level of qualified personnel with Oversight of the Groups compliance activities in relation to section 404 a wide range of different professional qualifications and experience of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and policy compliance reviews also fall of working in professional practice.
The Committee has a permanent agenda item to cover Internal Audit The Committee also maintains a programme of in-depth reviews related topics.
Prior to the start of each financial year the Committee that typically focus on the principal risks of the business, as well reviews and approves the annual audit plan, assesses the adequacy as areas of complexity and change.
The deep dive schedule for the of the budget and resources, and reviews the operational initiatives 2018 financial year was prepared giving consideration to coverage for the continuous improvement of the functions effectiveness.
of the Groups principal risks and, where possible, to align with The increased utilisation of data analytics has been a particular area Internal Audit reporting and the output of related cross-entity audits.
of focus to provide deeper audit testing and drive increased confidence There is an integrated assurance response to the Groups principal risks in test results.
An external review takes place periodically to benchmark review across the Group Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance teams.
and assess the effectiveness of the function, with any improvement Principal risks not covered by these in-depth reviews were covered opportunities addressed.
in the Board agenda during the 2018 financial year.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 69 Subject of in-depth review Principle risk see pages 38 to 45 Anti-money laundering and M-Pesa, including the introduction of comprehensive antiLegal and regulatory compliance money laundering compliance programme in all markets operating M-Pesa and the implementation of a new watch list and transactional monitoring screening tool.
Sanctions and the Groups risk tolerance relating to its existing relationships in high Legal and regulatory compliance risklocations.
Technology resilience, including the Groups continuing mobile resilience programme, the Technology resilience newer fixed resilience programme and the challenges related to building IT resilience.
GDPR programme, including the implementation of a GDPR compliance programme as Effective data management well as understanding its complexity and importance for delivering the Groups digital Cyber threat and information security telco strategy and being a trusted and admired brand.
The Groups business continuity and crisis management approach, training and Covers a number of principal risks governance processes, particularly as they relate to the business continuity plans for principal risks.
Telecommunications regulation compliance programme designed to ensure that all local Legal and regulatory compliance markets have governance processes in place to address regulatory requirements.
Vodacom Group risk and compliance overview, including the organisational structures to Local market view of its principal risks ensure programme compliance in South Africa and the international markets.
IT transformation and the Groups methodology which is being applied to all new IT Effective digital and technological transformation transformation projects.
Anti-bribery, including the Groups risk tolerance and anti-bribery and corruption Legal and regulatory compliance processes.
Cyber security and information security and the Groups processes to manage its Cyber threat and information security risktolerance.
In addition to these in-depth reviews, the Committee also received Compliance with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act annual updates on: The Committee takes an active role in monitoring the Groups compliance activities in respect of section 404 of the the risk of fraud in the organisation and how it is being managed from US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, receiving reports from management in the year the Group Corporate Security Director: covering changes to the section 404 programme including scoping and local market audit and risk committee activities and alignment with the results of work performed.
the Group Committees activities: and The scope of the Groups section 404 compliance activities in 2018 results of the use of Speak Up channels in place to enable were broadly similar compared to the 2017 financial year.
The external employees to raise concerns about possible irregularities auditors reported the status of their work in each of their reports in financial reporting or other issues and the outputs of any to the Committee.
The Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including risk management, during the year and up to the date of this Annual Report, in accordance with the requirements of the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and related Financial and Business Reporting published by the FRC.
It confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review for the 2018 financial year and allowed us to provide positive assurance to the Board to assist it in making the statements required by the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Where areas for improvement were identified, processes are in place to ensure that the necessary action is taken and that progress is monitored.
