Governance 60 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Board evaluation Continually monitoring and improving our performance The Board recognises that it continually needs to monitor and improve its performance.
This is achieved through the annual performance evaluation, full induction of new Board members and ongoing Board development activities.
The conclusions of this years review have been positive and confirmed that the Board and its Committees operate effectively and that each Director contributes to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group.
Our three-year Board evaluation cycle Board expertise Progress against 2017 actions The Directors continued to build their 2017 knowledge of the Companys Enterprise business and Enterprise content assets.
To enable the Board to do this, additional time was dedicated to the Enterprise Internal evaluation: business during Board meetings.
with the assistance of Lintstock Limited Lintstock, a Londonbased firm, which has no other connectionwith Vodafone.
2018 Internal evaluation: This years findings with the assistance of Lintstock a questionnaire was completed by Following the work undertaken as a result the Board.
of last years evaluation, the Board positively rated its understanding of the The Chairman presented the conclusions Companys Enterprise business.
However, from the evaluation to the Board which as the business is evolving it was recognised were discussed and actions for the that there would be merit in hearing more forthcoming year were agreed.
about the Enterprise business on a regular The Senior Independent Director met basis.
In addition, with the rapid changes with the other Non-Executive Directors in digital and technological developments, and with the Executive Directors to review more time should be dedicated to this area.
the Chairmans performance and met the Chairman to provide feedback.
The Chairman provided feedback to each Director on their individual contributions to the Board and considered their Action for 2019 development priorities.
The annual Board calendar would 2019 be reviewed to consider additional opportunities for Directors to further enhance their knowledge of the Enterprise business and keep updated on digital and External evaluation: technological developments.
further details will be provided in next years report.
See page 57 for details of the Mission to the 57 Moon project Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 61 Board composition Board training and Strategy development Progress against 2017 actions Progress against 2017 actions Progress against 2017 actions It was identified that the Board would It was recognised that Board members The Board identified that the balance benefit from adding further financial would benefit from more opportunities between the Companys focus on organic expertise.
This led to the search for a new to take part in site visits and be offered growth and on portfolio management Non-Executive Director with the identified more one-to-one interactions with needed to be carefully managed.
This process resulted members of the executive team.
in the appointment of Michel Demar Regular local market visits were arranged in February 2018. with the executive team, which all Board members were invited to attend.
These visits enabled the Directors to gain further insight into the local markets and build relationships with senior management.
This years findings This years findings This years findings The Boards composition was positively The Board induction programme was Improvement has been made to the rated as part of this years evaluation.
highly regarded by Directors, in addition, balance between the Companys focus The Board remains intent on ensuring its the deep dives which are provided on organic growth and on portfolio composition has the diversity and skills at Board meetings, were rated as excellent.
management, but remains an area which required to be effective.
As part of this years evaluation outcomes, needs to be kept under constant review.
it was acknowledged that on-going training, particularly on developments in technology was needed.
Action for 2019 Action for 2019 Action for 2019 The Board will consider opportunities Efforts will be made to ensure all Directors When deciding the agenda for Board to use its natural life-cycle to address the are provided with relevant on-going meetings during the year, the Chairman identified skills gaps to ensure that the training and that they receive the support and Chief Executive will keep in mind the Boards composition is aligned with the they need to remain effective in their role.
need to balance focus on organic growth Companys strategic goals.
See page 63 for details of Michels See page 57 for details of the Boards See pages 54 and 55 for details of the 63 57 54 appointment process overseas meeting and local market visits Boards activities during the year
