STRATEGIC REPORT RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE At the end of 2018, Vivo Energy employed 2,373 people, based in 19 countries.
We do all we can to make sure they are fulfilled and appropriately rewarded.
HOW WERE CREATING HOW WE DEVELOP AND HOW WE REWARD THERIGHTCULTURE RETAINOURPEOPLE OUR TEAMS Our values of integrity, honesty and respect Training also plays a major role in making sure Our entrepreneurial culture means for people are essential to achieving our vision we have the right people in the right roles remuneration is closely tied to achievement.
of becoming Africas most respected energy at the right time.
It ensures were prepared Variable pay, in the form of annual discretionary company.
They sit at the heart of our operating not only for the immediate future but also bonuses linked to individual and business culture of Focus, Simplify and Perform.
for the years that lie ahead.
Capability and performance, is a key element of our culture.
Since 2011, weve transformed our culture from skills development is always a top priority There are also bespoke incentive schemes for a process-driven organisation to a decentralised and2018 saw us invest $2.8 million in front line sales staff in the Retail, Commercial one where individuals are encouraged to make learningand development.
We also provide a decisions and are rewarded appropriately.
wide range of benefits for many of our people In common with businesses across the globe, including healthcare, pensions and life insurance.
Our people are regularly kept informed about attracting and retaining people with the In addition, Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP our business through their managers, employee rightskills is one of our greatest challenges.
arrangements apply selectively to senior town hall meetings, regular online newsletters, Our can-do attitude is a major attraction managers and certain other key members and our Company intranet.
When they have forthe talented, ambitious people we require, ofstaff.
See page 89 for details of LTIP awards ideas, they know that they can put them as well as one of the main reasons that our to our Executive Directors.
directly to our senior team including the latest Employee Engagement Survey returned CEOand CFO and get a personal response such positive results.
Conducted towards the back, usually within 24 hours.
end of2018, 89% of employees completed the survey.
Its chief findings included 90% GENDER DIVERSITY Reputation is our most important asset and we of respondees reporting they are proud to ensure that this is continuously maintained and Vivo Energy strives to ensure balanced work for VivoEnergy and confident that built on.
We do this by acting with the highest  across all the organisation will succeed in the future.
standards of corporate behaviour towards our employees in the Company.
Our gender 73%ofemployees provided a favourable employees, our customers, those with whom splitat31 December 2018 was as follows: scorewhen asked about leadership and culture, we do business and our shareholders.
Female Male Total and 87% provided a favourable response Our Code of Conduct and General Business to questions regarding purpose and values.
Board of Directors 2 7 9 Principles both available on our website Most encouraging was thatalmost all scores Executive Committee 1 7 8 include information on our approach to hadimproved when compared to the last respecting human rights and fighting corrupt survey, conducted in 2016.
All other employees 588 1,775 2,363 practices, as also reflected in our Modern Slavery Statement.
These policies underpin allthe work that we do and are the foundation ofour business.
$2.8M One example of this is the series of Ethics & INVESTED IN LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT IN 2018 25% Compliance training we run for all employees.
And we are proud to be one of the first ten FEMALE companies in the world and the first operating EMPLOYEES exclusively in Africa to achieve the ISO 37001 standard for anti-bribery management systems.
18 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LOOKING AFTER OUR PEOPLE Safety is an absolute priority.
We aim to achieve Goal Zero, which means no harm to our people, contractorsor the environment.
WHAT WERE DOING TO MOVING TO A PROACTIVE TOTAL RECORDABLE per million KEEP OUR PEOPLE SAFE SAFETY CULTURE CASE FREQUENCY exposure hours Our HSSE performance is benchmarked Weve transformed our approach to against the downstream activities of our HSSEsince we were established in 2011 0.19 industry peers, and we consistently score moving from a reactive culture to one thats aheadof companies operating both within and comprehensive and proactive.
A key challenge is to integrate weve focused on the role of potential incident HSSE into every area of our culture and reporting to anticipate events before they 2017 0.10 operations, with our main focus areas being: happen.
This has not only led to an upsurge inthe number of potential incidents reported, Road safety, including providing driver but also a step change in the way we follow 2016 0.31 training and rewarding safe driving, as well them up in order to prevent incidents as incorporating extra safety equipment occurringin the first place.
2015 0.26 Our Severe Motor Vehicle Incident Rate Contractor safety, which extends from SMVIR for 2018 was 0.026 incidents per requiring contractors to comply with million kilometres driven, while our Lost Time our HSSE policies through to driver and Injury Frequency LTIF was 0.192 incidents vehicle initiatives.
This was slightly Process safety, such as ensuring that safe under 2017 performance, but nevertheless working practices are followed at all depots, remains strong.
blending plants and other sites where we operate potentially hazardous equipment.
However, it is with great sadness that we haveto report that we failed to achieve Security, including traveller and country GoalZero no harm to people and minimising security monitoring and incorporating our impact on the environment in 2018. security initiatives into the design and One of our Moroccan colleagues, Mustapha operation of our assets.
Rahimi, died in October following a fire which caused an LPG tank to explode at a customer site.
Mustapha had worked for Shell and Vivo Energy for 25 years, and we would like to take this opportunity to again extend our sincere condolences to his family and friends.
This was our first fatal incident since an employee was killed in the terrorist attack in Mali in 2015 andisbeing thoroughly investigated so we learn the appropriate lessons and implement processes to preventit from happening again.
We are committed to providing equalopportunities for all our employees.
No employees became disabled during 2018, however, our policy is to make all efforts to retain, re-train and make adjustments for disabled colleagues.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 19 STRATEGIC REPORT RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED MANAGING HIGH QUALITY ASSETS Our well-maintained assets range from the bright, efficient service stations that provide high levels , to an extensive fuel storage network and lubricant blending plants that allowustoovercome the broader infrastructure challenges on the continent.
HOW WE MANAGE HOW WE MANAGE With the dealer-owned and operated OUR RETAILNETWORK OUR DEALER NETWORK model, the dealer owns and operates the service station, whilst having a fuel supply At the end of 2018, our retail network In order to manage our retail network agreement with Vivo Energy.
At the end comprised 1,900 service stations across efficiently, we utilise local dealers to operate of the year, these sites numbered 664, 15countries, all of which traded under 92% of our sites to our exacting standards.
accounting for 35% of our network.
This network was We use a mix of three operating models Under the company-owned and operated responsible for the sale of 5.4 billion litres of across our network depending on the site model, we own the service station and are fuel and lubricants during a year that saw us location and circumstance.
The majority of also responsible for its operation.
At the open a net total of 88 new service stations.
our service stations are company-owned end of the year, we had 154 such sites, In Africa, service stations are increasingly and dealer-operated.
However, we also have representing 8% of all sites.
sites that are dealer-owned and operated People dont just visit our locations to fill up and a small number that are company-owned We support our dealers to ensure they their vehiclesamongst other reasons they and operated.
have a platform to succeed and then will may want their oil ortyres checked, meet regularly check that they are maintaining Under the company-owned and dealerfriends over a coffee ora burger or use the standards that we require.
Our average, operated model, we own or lease the an ATM.
annual throughput per site was 2.9 million litres service station, with the dealer responsible during 2018.
Because our service stations are for its operation under an agreement.
clean, vibrant, efficient and enormously At the end of 2018, we had 1,082 such sites, convenient.
And because most people representing 57% of all sites.
refuel a little and often, theyre frequent and loyal visitors.
Repeat visits are also SERVICE STATIONS encouraged by our fuel payment and loyalty cards.
Approximately 78,000 corporate cards and nearly 33,000 consumer cards were active monthly in 2018.
1,900 And were currently developing a new app 1 SERVICE STATIONS IN 2018 that will bringevengreater convenience to customers, and promote greater loyalty.
COMPANY-OWNED DEALER-OPERATED 1,082 COMPANY-OWNED AND OPERATED 154 DEALER-OWNED AND OPERATED 664 1 17 service stations formerly classified as dealer-owned and operated transferred to our Commercial business at year end.
20 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HOW WE MANAGE OUR NETWORK HOW WE MANAGE OF STORAGE FACILITIES AND PLANTS OUR BRAND STORAGEFACILITIES We have developed an extensive network In most of the markets where we operate ofstorage facilities to ensure that we can wedo not compete on price because fuel supplyour retail and commercial customers.
prices are regulated margins on regular fuels We own 38 depots in around 37 locations, were regulated in 12 of the 15 markets where giving us reliable access to over 577,000 cubic we operated at the end of 2018.
This means metres of directly-owned and managed storage we compete on location, customer experience capacity.
In addition, through joint venture and brand.
We spend a material amount on arrangements, we have further access to marketing across our operating units to drive approximately 389,000 cubic metres of storage.
growth and protect and enhance our brand ACCESS TO This network is supplied by a combination of which when coupled with the high levels of ship, pipeline, truck and rail.
In recent years, customer service, quality fuels, a safe fuelling 966,000 averagedepot turns have increased from 7.9 in environment and a quality non-fuel offering CUBIC METRES OF FUEL STORAGE 2015, 8.2 in 2016 and 9.2 in 2017 to 9.4 in 2018. means that we are able to consistently outperform our competitors.
Through our 50% ownership of SVL, we have access to and operate two lubricant blending plants in Morocco and Kenya and have interests in blending operations in Tunisia, Cte dIvoire, Ghana and Guinea.
This gives ACCESS TO 6 us access to around 158,000 metric tonnes LUBRICANTS BLENDING PLANTS SERVICE STATIONS ofblending capacity.
Our mining business offers consignment stocks for fuels and or lubricants to 26 mining customers.
In the marine sector, we have bunkering operations in four countries, while the LPG business owns bottling plants in six countries and has interests in joint venture facilities in three countries.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 21 STRATEGIC REPORT RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED BUILDING CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS We depend on a wide range of key relationships with customers, suppliers, partners, communities and others to help us deliver our growth strategy.
HOW WE BUILD RELATIONSHIPS HOW WE BUILD RELATIONSHIPS We work closely with a number of other WITHCUSTOMERS WITHPARTNERS partners, including owners of storage facilities, and with contractors who provide trucks We work hard to build strong bonds with Our principal partnership is with Shell, with and rail cars for transportation.
And we customers across our Retail, Commercial whom we have secured a retail brand licence continue to maintain excellent relationships and Lubricants businesses, supporting our agreement until December 2031.
This gives with fuel suppliers including Vitol provider products and delivery capabilities with a range usexclusive rights to use certain specified ofnearly 30%of our fuel supply in 2018, of valueadded services, including nonfuel Shellbrands for our products and services, STIRin Tunisia 12%, SIR in Cte dIvoire 7%, offerings at our service stations.
We work CEPSAinMorocco 5% and Puma Energy closely with Shell on marketing and new We work with our commercial customers inBotswana and Namibia 5%.
product launches to maximise the benefit of byaddressing key customer issues such as the relationship for all stakeholders.
We also the total cost of ownership of vehicles and have a 50:50 joint venture with Shell, Shell machinery.
For example, we help mining andVivoLubricants SVL.
SVL is the exclusive companies maximise the efficient use of licensee for Shells lubricant brands in Africa their assets by providing tools such as fuel with the exception ofSouth Africa, Libya and management systems that provide full $103M Egypt with access to six blending plants across transparency around fuel consumption.
Africa, giving us access to the industrys most PAID $103 MILLION IN INCOME TAXES TOOUR HOST ECONOMIES IN 2018, widely respected lubricants.
PLUSOTHER TAXES INCLUDING PAYROLL, VAT AND DUTIES SHELL BRAND LICENCE Shell brand licence agreement until December 2031.
2031 22 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HOW WE BUILD RELATIONSHIPS In Tunisia, for example, we provided around HOW WE BUILD RELATIONSHIPS WITHCOMMUNITIES 350 books to each of 25 primary schools and WITHGOVERNMENTS also launched a story writing competition We aim to be a positive force in the We maintain good relationships with our opento all Tunisian children.
communities close to our operations.
host governments and primarily engage These arethe towns and villages where our Our commitment to the environment is with them through industry bodies in each people live and we want to create lasting social expressed in two ways.
Firstly, by working of our operating units.
Due to our central and economic benefits for these communities.
todevelop cleaner energy resources position within the economy, we are major such asrenewables at some of our new collectors of tax and duties on behalf of the During 2018 we invested a total of nearly or refurbished service stations as well as government through the sale of petroleum $1.2 million to support our three focus areas products, services, practices and policies that products, we create significant direct and of road safety, education and the environment.
At the indirect employment which generates major In road safety we launched or rolled out same time, we use our educational initiatives economic benefit for countries, and are a several schemes to encourage greater safety.
topromote good environmental practices, significant tax contributor in our own right.
Africa experiences a high number of road from energy efficiency to effective waste In 2018, we paid $103 million in income taxes traffic accidents and as a company that disposal, in local communities.
relies on trucks and tankers for supply and distribution, were committed to playing our In 2018 we worked with a television part to address this.
broadcaster and local authorities to highlight the environmental harm caused by plastic bags Initiatives for 2018 included providing training, in Uganda.
As part of this initiative, we banned advice and technology as well as funding all single use plastic bags at our service stations for changes to road layouts and signage.
In Ghana, we worked with our contractors SHELL BRAND LICENCE and the RedCross to implement a road safety programme at bus terminals in Accra, COMMUNITY INVESTMENT as well asproviding free health screening for almost 300 bus drivers.
Were also active in $1.2M developinga range of educational initiatives, INVESTED NEARLY US$1.2 MILLION primarily aimed at children and young INOVER100 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT people.
The main aim is to foster academic PROJECTS IN 2018 achievement, entrepreneurship and learning.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 23 STRATEGIC REPORT RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Our approach to natural resources centres around reducing the amount of energy we use, improving the efficiency of products that we sell, transitioning to renewable energy where it makes sense, and respecting ourlocal environment.
WHAT WERE DOING TO REDUCE WHAT WERE DOING TO REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION THEIMPACT OF OUR PRODUCTS ADDING SOLAR AT OUROPERATIONS We have a wide range of initiatives in place, In most of our markets, the importation including: of petroleum products is controlled and regulated by the government or national oil Smarter depots and supply company, supported by appropriate product chains, introducing automation specifications.
These balance environmental toimprove efficiencies improvements with affordability.
In order to Optimising product deliveries to reduce mitigate some of the impact of increased fuel distance travelled use on the environment, in 2018 we launched Improving the energy efficiency of new fuel products in several countries that ourservice stations through initiatives contain Shells DYNAFLEX Technology, We have added solar to a suchassolar power and LED lighting whichhelps clean and protect key components in vehicle engines, leading to better engine number of our service stations WHAT WERE DOING TO RESPECT efficiency, reduced fuel consumption and and facilities and are investigating OUR LOCAL ENVIRONMENT therefore reduced emissions.
We also providing hybrid solar solutions market Shell FuelSave, designed to improve toCommercial customers.
To make sure our operations cause the combustion, boosting efficiency and saving fuel.
minimum impact on the local environment, Shell Helix Ultra with PUREPLUS Technology we adhere to stringent standards and work in our lubricants range is made from base oil only with approved contractors.
We also carry created from natural gas with virtually none out detailed environmental assessments for ofthe impurities found in crude oil.
every new build or refurbishment project, mitigating impacts wherever we can through GREENHOUSE GASES initiatives such as double skin tanks and utilising sophisticated monitoring technologies In 2018 our greenhouse gas data was calculated Due to this being our first Strategic Report to identify and address environmental risks using the methodology described in the since Admission, we have not been able to onceasite is operational.
APICompendium of Greenhouse Gas Emission provide a ratio which expresses the Companys Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable We regularly monitor our environmental Industry August 2009.
During the 2018 factor associated with the Companys business.
In 2018 there were two financial year our Greenhouse Gas Emissions In addition, as this is our first year reporting, roadtanker fuel spills greater than 100 kg totalled 102.82 kilotonnes of CO equivalent, since the Company was incorporated no prior 2 from our operations, totalling 45.4 tonnes.
This figure year data is included.
We have developed emergency response plans includes emissions of CO equivalent for 2 to minimise any impact in the unlikely event With effect from 1 January 2019 we started which the Company is responsible including of a major spill.
We oversee the remediation using the UK Government Environmental both combustion of fuel and the operation of contaminated sites, as well as facilitating Reporting guidelines, issued by the Department of our facilities, including the purchase of approved used oil collection and disposal for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs.
electricity, heat and cooling, as far as it has practices.
Waste is also a major challenge The UK Government Greenhouse Gas been possible for us to obtain.
Some data has acrossAfrica, and we have stringent process Conversion Factors will be used for our not been available as it relates to sites which in place at all our sites, ensuring efficient 2019Annual Report.
are not wholly within the Companys control wastecollection, segregation and disposal.
or it relates to a location where we have not previously been required to report.
24 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MAINTAINING AN EFFECTIVE FINANCIAL STRUCTURE Through managing our financial structures in an effective yet prudent manner we have set the foundations forour track record of sound financial performance.
HOW WERE FUNDED OPERATING LEVERAGE INVESTED OVER Since inception in 2012, we have grown our Due to our operating model, we dont need to business through investing over $750 million add significant overhead when we increase the $750M of internally generated cash flow since 2012. size of our retail network which means we have This has primarily been funded from strong significant operating leverage.
Since 2015, weve TO GROW SINCE 2012 cash flows from operations, and utilising our grown volumes by a CAGR of 5%, gross cash structural negative working capital position profit by 13%, Adjusted EBITDA by 19% and resulting from the nature of our business.
At Group level we run a conservative balance 1 sheet with a leverage ratio of 0.79x in 2018 AN INITIAL CREDIT RATING OF BB 2018 LEVERAGE RATIO andhave access to $1.7 billion in liquidity.
Following the IPO, we sought an initial rating 0.79x and, following detailed conversations, we were CAPITAL ALLOCATION awarded a BB rating by Standard & Poors.
We pursue a disciplined approach to capital While we believe that we can and will improve allocation which has ensured that each on this, we also believe itreflects well on our investment for growth adds significant value.
1 Non-GAAP measures are explained on pages 47 to 48.
Our post investment reviews show that on average we comfortably exceed required returns for the vast majority of our projects.
AN INITIAL CREDIT RATING OF BB BB VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 25
