Governance 48 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Board of Directors Experienced, effective and diverse leadership Our business is led by our Board of Directors.
Biographical details of theDirectors and senior management as at 15 May 2018 are as follows with further information available at vodafone.
Committee Key: A Audit and Risk Committee N Nominations and Governance Committee R Remuneration Committee Solid background signifies Committee Chair N Gerard Kleisterlee Vittorio Colao Nick Read Chairman Independent on appointment Chief Executive Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Executive Director Tenure: 7 years Tenure: 11 years Tenure: 4 years Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Gerard has extensive experience of senior leadership of With over 20 years experience working in the telecoms As Group Chief Financial Officer, Nick combines strong global businesses both in the developed and emerging industry, Vittorio has extensive leadership skills commercial and operational leadership with a detailed markets.
He brings to the Group a deep understanding developed within both Vodafone and the industry understanding of the industry and its challenges of the consumer electronics, technology and and is widely recognised as an outstanding leader in and opportunities.
Nick has wide-ranging experience lifestyle industries gained from his career with Philips the telecoms sector.
Vittorio became a member of in senior finance roles both at Vodafone and other Electronics spanning over 30 years and continues the Board in October 2006 and was appointed Chief multinational companies including United Business to use this experience to oversee the development Executive in July 2008.
Vittorio will stand down as a Media plc and Federal Express Worldwide.
Nick will of Vodafones strategy and the effectiveness of its Director and as Chief Executive on 30 September 2018. become Chief Executive on 1 October 2018. operations as a total communications company.
Other current appointments: Other current appointments: Other current appointments: European Round Table of Industrialists, vice Booking Holdings Inc. non-executive director Royal Dutch Shell, deputy chair, senior independent chairman subject to approval at the annual meeting of director, chair of the remuneration committee stockholders in June 2018 Unilever PLC, non-executive director and chair of the and member of the nomination and succession compensation committee committee with effect from 23 May 2018 ASML, chairman of supervisory board Sir Crispin Davis A N Michel Demar Dr Mathias Dpfner R Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Tenure: 3 years Tenure: 1 year Tenure: 3 years Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Sir Crispin has broad-ranging experience as a business Michel brings extensive international finance, strategy Mathias brings wide-ranging experience within the leader within international content and technology and M&A experience to the Board, gained during his global digital media industry to the Board.
Having markets from his roles as chief executive of RELX Group 18-year career at Dow Chemical, as CFO of Baxter led his business, Axel Springer SE, through a highly formerly Reed Elsevier and the digital agency, Aegis International Europe, and as CFO and head of global successful transition into digital and international Group plc, and group managing director of Guinness markets of ABB Group.
He was the non-executive markets, he provides a digital perspective to the PLC now Diageo plc.
He was knighted in 2004 for chairman of Syngenta until the company was sold to Boards strategy.
Mathias will be stepping down from services to publishing and information.
He brings a ChemChina in 2017. the Board at our AGM on 27 July 2018. strong commercial perspective to Board discussions.
Other current appointments: Other current appointments: Other current appointments: UBS AG, independent vice chairman Axel Springer SE, chairman and chief executive Hasbro, non-executive director officer Louis Dreyfus Company Holdings BV, non-executive Oxford University, trustee and member of the director Time Warner and Warner Music Group, member of university board the board of directors IMD Business School in Lausanne, vice chairman of CVC Capital Partners, adviser the supervisory board Business Insider Inc. chairman of the board of directors Rentokil Initial plc, non-executive director Department of Banking and Finance at the University of Zurich, advisory board member American Academy, American Jewish Committee and the European Publishers Council, holds honorary offices St Johns College, University of Cambridge, member Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 49 Experience and skills Gender composition Non-Executive Directors Board of Directors Consumer goods Media Female Finance and capital markets Technology Male Financial services Telecoms Emerging markets Consumer services A N R N R Dame Clara Furse Valerie Gooding cbe Renee James Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Tenure: 3 years Tenure: 4 years Tenure: 7 years Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Dame Clara brings to the Board a deep understanding Valerie brings a wealth of international business Renee brings comprehensive knowledge of the of international capital markets, regulation, service experience obtained at companies with high levels high technology sector developed from her long industries and business transformation developed of customer service including British Airways and career at Intel Corporation where she was president.
from her previous roles as chief executive officer of the as chief executive of BUPA which, together with her She is currently the chairman and CEO of Ampere London Stock Exchange Group plc and Credit Lyonnais focus on leadership and talent, is greatly valuable to Computing.
Her extensive experience of international Rouse Ltd.
Her financial proficiency is highly valued as Board discussions.
management, technology and the development and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
In 2008 implementation of corporate strategy is an asset to the Other current appointments: she was appointed Dame Commander of the Order of Board and the Committees for which she is a member.
TUI AG, non-executive director the British Empire.
Other current appointments: Aviva UK Insurance Ltd, chairman Other current appointments: The National Security Telecommunications Advisory English National Ballet, trustee HSBC UK, non-executive chairman Committee, chairman Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, Queens trustee Amadeus IT Group SA, non-executive director Carlyle Group, operating executive Lawn Tennis Association Trust, chairman Oracle Corporation, non-executive director Citigroup Inc. non-executive director Samuel Jonah kbe R Amparo Moraleda A David Nish A Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Tenure: 9 years Tenure: 1 year Tenure: 2 years Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Samuel brings experience and understanding of Amparo brings strong international technology David has wide-ranging operational and strategic business operations in emerging markets, particularly experience to the Board from her previous role as experience as a senior leader and has a strong Africa.
Previously executive president of AngloGold chief executive officer of the international division of understanding of financial and capital markets Ashanti Ltd, he provides an international, commercial Iberdola and a career spanning 20 years at IBM, where through his previous directorships which include chief perspective to Board discussions.
she held a number of positions across a range of executive officer and chief financial officer of Standard global locations.
Life plc and chief financial officer of Scottish Power plc.
Other current appointments: Global Advisory Council of Bank of America, member Other current appointments: Other current appointments: Airbus Group, non-executive director, chair of HSBC Holdings Plc, non-executive director President of Togo, adviser the nominations, governance and remuneration London Stock Exchange Group Plc, Iron Mineral Beneficiation Services, non-executive committees non-executive director and chair of the audit chairman CaixaBank, non-executive director and chair of the committee Jonah Capital Pty Limited, executive chairman remuneration committee Zurich Insurance Group, board member Hollard formerly Metropolitan Insurance Company Solvay, non-executive director Limited, chairman Royal Academy of Economic and Financial Services, The Investment Climate Facility, member of trustee member board
