Governance 52 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Leadership structure How we are governed The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors andnineNon-Executive Directors.
Our Non-Executive Directors bring wideand varied commercial experience to the Board and Committees.
Our Board Our Committees The Board is responsible for: The Board has delegated to its Committees responsibility for maintaining effective governance in relation to: Ensuring leadership through effective oversight and review.
The Board sets the strategic direction and aims to deliver sustainable Audit and risk: stakeholder value over the longer term: Remuneration: Overseeing the implementation of appropriate risk assessment Board composition and succession planning: and systems and processes to identify, manage and mitigate the principal risks of the Companys business: Corporate governance.
Effective succession planning at Board level and for assessing the Full details of the Committees responsibilities are detailed within the processes in place to ensure that there is appropriate succession respectiveCommittee reports on pages 62 to 87. planning among senior management.
Much of this work is delegated to the Nominations and Governance Committee: and The Executive Committee and other management committees are responsible for implementing strategic objectives and realising Matters relating to finance, audit and internal control, legal, reputation competitive business performance in line with established risk and listed company management.
management frameworks, compliance policies, internal control systems and reporting requirements.
The Board Responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business including our long-term success: setting our purpose: values: standards and strategic objectives: reviewing our performance: and ensuring a positive dialogue with our stakeholders is maintained.
Comprised of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
Chief Financial Chief Executive Officer Audit and Risk Nominations Remuneration Committee and Governance Committee Committee Reviews the integrity, Sets, reviews and adequacy and recommends the policy Evaluates Board Executive Disclosure effectivenessof the on remuneration of the composition and ensures Committee Committee Groups system of internal Chairman, Executives and Board diversity and control, including the risk senior management team.
Focuses on strategy Oversees the accuracy management framework implementation, financial andtimeliness Monitors the Reviews Executive and related and competitive of Groupdisclosures implementation of the succession plans compliance activities.
performance, commercial and approves controls Remuneration Policy.
to maintain continuity and technological andprocedures in relation of skilled resource.
developments, succession to the public disclosure Oversees matters relating planning and organisational of financial information.
64 Read more 62 Read more 70 Read more Risk and Compliance Committee Assists the Executive Committee in fulfilling its accountabilities with regard to risk management and Key policy compliance.
Delegation Reporting Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 53 The following table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Division of responsibilities Board and Committee meetings during the year: We have a clear division of responsibilities between our Chairman and Chief Executive, each role is clearly defined and is quite distinct from Attendance table one another.
Nominations Audit and Risk and Governance Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman Gerard Kleisterlee 7 7 5 5 Leads the Board, sets the agenda and promotes a culture of open Vittorio Colao 7 7 debate between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: Nick Read 7 7 1 Regularly meets with the Chief Executive and other senior Sir Crispin Davis 6 7 4 5 2 3 management to stay informed: and 2 Michel Demar 1 1 3 Dr Mathias Dpfner 6 7 5 5 Ensures effective communication with our stakeholders.
Dame Clara Furse 7 7 5 5 Senior Independent Director Valerie Gooding cbe 7 7 5 5 5 5 Renee James 7 7 3 3 5 5 Provides a sounding board to the Chairman and appraises Samuel Jonah kbe 7 7 5 5 his performance: 4 Amparo Moraleda 6 6 4 4 Acts as intermediary for other Directors, if needed: and David Nish 7 7 4 4 5 Is available to respond to shareholder concerns when contact Nick Land 2 2 1 1 5 through the normal channels is inappropriate.
Phil Yea 2 2 1 1 2 2 Non-Executive Directors Notes: The maximum number of scheduled meetings held during the year that each Director could Contribute to developing our strategy: and attend is shown next to the number attended.
Additional meetings were held as required.
1 Sir Crispin Davis was unable to attend one Board, Audit and Risk Committee and Nominations and Governance Committee meeting due to medical reasons.
Scrutinise and constructively challenge the performance of 2 Michel Demar was appointed on 1 February 2018. management in the execution of our strategy.
3 Dr Mathias Dpfner was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior business commitment.
4 Amparo Moraleda was appointed on 1 June 2017.
Chief Executive 5 Nick Land and Phil Yea stepped down from the Board on 28 July 2017.
Leads the business, implements strategy and chairs the The meetings are structured to allow open discussion.
Board meeting the Directors are made aware of the key discussions and decisions of the three principal Committees by the respective Chief Financial Officer Committee Chairmen.
Minutes of Board and Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors after each meeting.
Details of the Responsible for the preparation and integrity of our Boards activities during the year are set out on pages 54 and 55. financial reporting.
Company Secretary Our culture The Board recognises that a healthy corporate culture is fundamental Assists the Chairman by organising induction and training to our business purpose and strategy.
Vodafones culture is defined programmes and ensuring that all Directors have full and through the Digital Vodafone Way, our Business Principles and the Code timely access to all relevant information: of Conduct.
Together these set out what we expect from our employees Ensures that the correct Board procedures are followed: and and how we expect business to be carried out.
By embedding the Digital Vodafone Way into our processes, we strive for a culture of speed, Advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
Our Code of Conduct, which includes our Business The removal of the Group General Counsel and Company Principles and the Digital Vodafone Way, can be found on our website.
Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Our leaders have a critical role in setting the tone of our organisation and championing the behaviours we expect to see.
The Executive The Board is collectively responsible for the oversight and success Committee led campaigns and engagement throughout the year of our business.
The Board discharges some of its responsibilities to highlight our values and beliefs.
Various indicators are used to provide directly and others through its principal Board Committees and through insight into our culture, including employee engagement, health, safety management.
The Matters Reserved for the Board and Committee and wellbeing measures and diversity indicators.
We regularly assess the Terms of Reference were last reviewed in March 2018 and are state of our culture, through activities such as compliance reviews and available on our website.
we address behaviour that falls short of our expectations.
Development Approval Our new brand positioning strategy The Board was fully briefed as our new brand strategy The new brand positioning strategy was approved Given the strategic significance of the new brand was being developed which included: by the Board at its July 2017 meeting.
positioning, the Board was involved with its development and launch: Holding in-depth discussions over several months Launch as the new brand strategy was developed: On 5 October 2017, the new brand strategy was launched across all 36 countries in which the Several presentations were provided to the Board, Vodafone brand is present.
noting the progression being made by the brand Review team: and The Board was provided an update at its March Providing challenge and guidance to the brand team, 2018 meeting which highlighted the success which enabled them to refine the brand strategy.
of thenew brand strategy launch.
