s l o r t s n l o o r t c n o e c t n n e t h s i m l e n g i o t i t r i i v s v i n n t r e c e l o a a v r e u r o The Weir Group PLC 80 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Accountability Functional and front line controls Following the Board and Committee structure This includes a wide spectrum of controls set out on page 74, various internal and external The Audit Committee and as seen in most organisations, including, for sources of assurance report to the Board and auditors example: standard operating procedures and management.
These sources of assurance policies: a comprehensive financial planning and were reviewed by the Board during the year, Details on the roles and responsibilities of reporting system, including quarterly forecasting: and principally comprise of external audit, the Audit Committee and its members can regular performance appraisals and training for internal audit, SHE audits, legal and intellectual be found in the Audit Committee Report employees: restricted access to financial systems property audits, engineering audits, Value Chain on pages 87 to 94.
Information on the and data: delegated authority matrices for review Excellence and procurement audits, IT audits Companys external auditors is contained and approval of key transactions: protective and production system lean audits.
within the Audit Committee Report.
clothing and equipment to protect our people The various audit teams plan their activities on from harm: IT and data security controls: business Internal Control and Risk Management a risk basis, ensuring resources are directed continuity planning: and assessment procedures In accordance with the Code and at the areas of greatest need.
Issues and for potential new recruits.
the accompanying Guidance on Risk recommendations to enhance controls are Management and Internal Controls, Monitoring and oversight controls reported to management to ensure timely action the Group has an ongoing process for There is a clearly defined organisational structure can be taken, with oversight provided from the identifying, evaluating and managing the within which roles and responsibilities are relevant governance committees, including the significant risks through an internal control articulated.
There are monitoring controls at Audit Committee and the Excellence Committees.
This process has been in place operating company, regional, divisional and Group Ethical and cultural environment throughout 2018.
More information on how level, including standard key performance We are committed to doing business at all times the Group seeks to manage risk can be indicators, with action plans to address in an ethical and transparent manner.
This is found on pages 47 to 55. underperforming areas.
supported by the Weir values which are the core The Board in seeking to achieve the Groups A compliance scorecard self-assessment behaviours we expect our people to live by in business objectives, cannot offer an is completed and reported by all operating their working lives.
The Weir Code of Conduct absolute guarantee that the application of a companies twice per annum.
The scorecard also contributes to our culture, providing a high risk management process will overcome, assesses compliance with Group policies benchmark by which we expect our business eliminate or mitigate all significant risks.
Any examples of unethical However, by further developing and behaviour are dealt with robustly and promptly.
Financial monitoring includes comparing operating an annual and ongoing risk actual results with the forecast and prior year The Ethics section on page 60 within management process to identify, report and position on a monthly and year to date basis.
the Sustainability Review provides more manage significant risks, the Board seeks Significant variances are highlighted to Directors details on the Groups activities to promote to provide a reasonable assurance against on a timely basis, allowing appropriate action to ethical behaviour.
The Groups internal control procedures described The Audit Committee conducted a review Assurance activities on page 88 of the Audit Committee Report do of the effectiveness of the Groups systems We obtain a wide range of assurance to provide not cover joint venture interests.
We have Board of internal control and risk management comfort to management and the Board that representation on each of our joint venture during 2018, as detailed on page 88. our controls are providing adequate protection companies, where separate, albeit similar, internal from risk and are operating as we would expect.
control frameworks have been adopted.
Our internal control framework has four key layers: Risks t l c f u n c d a d d r n n u a a s l n a s g c a i A h t n i E l r o a t i n n o o i M t c n u F
