t n e m n o r i v n e l a r u Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 81 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK The strategic plan is a bottom up analysis The geographical and sector diversification of Corporate Governance Code 2016, the directors prepared annually and submitted to the Board the Groups operations helps minimise the risk have assessed the viability of the Group over for consideration.
The output of this plan is used of serious business interruption or catastrophic a three year period, taking into account the to perform central debt and headroom profile damage to our reputation.
While the Group Groups current position and the potential analysis, which includes a review of sensitivity remains exposed to the cyclicality of the impact of the principal risks documented on to business as usual risks, such as profit markets in which it operates, it continues to pages 51 to 55 of the Annual Report.
Based on growth, working capital variances and return on have a strong balance sheet that provides this assessment, the directors confirm that capital investment.
This analysis, in conjunction capacity in which to operate.
In addition, they have a reasonable expectation that the with the current year results and 2019 Budget, our ability to flex our cost base to reflect our Company will be able to continue in operation provides the basis for the viability model on existing markets, as demonstrated in recent and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the which we have overlaid a number of severe but years, protects our viability in the face of period to31 December 2021. plausible events to reflect our risk assessment.
adverse economic conditions and or additional risks highlighted.
The directors have determined that a three year In making this statement, the Board carried out period to 31 December 2021 is an appropriate a robust assessment of the principal risks facing While this review does not consider all of the period over which to provide its viability the Group, including those that could threaten its risks that the Group may face, the directors statement.
The Groups key markets are by business model, future performance, solvency consider that this stress testing based nature cyclical and therefore, while the Group or liquidity.
assessment of the Groups prospects is operates a five year strategic planning process, reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent While the review has considered all the principal market cyclicality and the related lack of visibility uncertainty involved.
risks identified by the Group, the following risks over commodity prices in particular indicate were focused on for enhanced stress testing: that a period of three years is appropriate.
market downturn, major site and customer We believe that this approach presents the shocks, significant loss of market share in key Board and readers of the Annual Report with markets and regulatory shock.
The resulting areasonable degree of confidence over this scenarios were modelled as a series of longer term outlook.
individual one-off shocks, in combination with commodity price based market downturn scenarios.
Refer to page 55 for the Groups principal risks, specifying those risks considered during this review.
