Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 73 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance Roles and responsibilities of Directors The Board of Directors has a collective duty to promote the long-term success of the Company for its shareholders.
The Board sets the strategic aims of the Group and provides leadership and guidance to senior management to ensure that the necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategy.
In determining the long-term strategy and objectives of the Group, the Board is mindful of its duties and responsibilities not just to shareholders but also to customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The Board reviews management and financial performance and monitors the delivery of strategy and the achievement of business objectives.
At all times, the Board operates within a robust framework of internal controls and risk management.
The Board also develops and promotes the collective vision of the Groups purpose, culture, values and behaviours.
Board composition During 2018, the Board was comprised of two Executive Directors, the Chairman and up to nine Non-Executive Directors.
Stephen Young and Cal Collins were appointed to the Board in 2018.
Engelbert Haan was appointed to the Board on 18 February 2019.
Graham Vanhegan was appointed as Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary in 2018.
Alan Ferguson stepped down from the Board and as Chair of the Audit Committee in April 2018.
John Mogford stepped down as a Non-Executive Director in April 2018.
Christopher Morgan stepped down as General Counsel and Company Secretary in May 2018.
Biographical information on the Board of Directors, including their relevant experience, expertise and significant appointments, can be found on pages 68 and 69.
The key responsibilities of the Board and the Company Secretary are set out below.
Directors Responsibilities Chairman of the Board Leading the Board in an ethical manner and promoting effective Board relationships.
Charles Berry Building a well-balanced Board, considering succession planning and the Boards composition.
Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board and individual Directors.
Overseeing the Board evaluation and acting on its results.
Ensuring appropriate induction and development programmes.
Setting the Board agenda and chairing the Board meetings.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Chief Executive Officer Planning the Group objectives and strategy for Board approval.
Jon Stanton Ensuring the effective delivery of Group strategy.
Providing leadership to the Group and communicating the Companys culture, values and behaviours.
Day-to-day management of the Company.
Chief Financial Officer Ensuring an effective financial control environment which is compliant with regulations.
John Heasley Ensuring effective management of Group capital structure and financing needs.
Provision of timely and accurate financial reporting.
Assisting in formulating the Group objectives and strategy.
Delivery of the Group value chain excellence and IT strategy.
Senior Independent Director Supporting the Chairman in his duties where necessary.
Rick Menell Leading the annual review of the performance of the Chairman.
Being available to Directors and Shareholders with concerns that cannot be addressed through the normal channels.
Non-Executive Directors Contributing independent challenge and rigour.
Clare Chapman Assisting in the development of the Companys strategy.
Cal Collins Ensuring the integrity of the financial information, controls and risk management processes.
Mary Jo Jacobi Monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors against agreed goals and objectives.
Barbara Jeremiah Advising senior management.
Professor Sir Jim McDonald Succession planning for the Board and senior management.
Stephen Young Chief Legal Officer and Advising the Board on governance, legislation and regulatory requirements.
Company Secretary Ensuring the presentation of high-quality information to the Board and its Committees, in a timely manner.
Graham Vanhegan Ensuring best practice in Board procedures.
Facilitating induction and development programmes.
Supporting the Chairman and other Board members as necessary, including the management of the Board and Committees and their evaluation.
The Weir Group PLC 74 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance continued Board Committees The Board has a number of Committees to assist in discharging its responsibilities.
The principal committees are the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The work of the Committees is essential to the effective operation of the Board and the Committees consider matters in greater depth and detail on behalf of the Board.
The responsibilities of the Board committees are set out in the individual Terms of Reference of each committee, which are available on the Companys website.
The Committee Terms of Reference are reviewed annually to ensure their continuing appropriateness.
Only Committee members are entitled to attend meetings, however, other Board members may attend at any time if they choose to do so.
Professional advisers and members of the senior management team attend committee meetings when they are invited to do so.
The Board may also set up separate committees to consider specific issues when the need arises.
Board and Committee structure The composition of the various committees along with their accompanying Terms of Reference, the matters reserved to the Board for approval and delegated authority matrices combine to create a clear authority matrix across the Group for timely and effective decision-making.
This structure provides the Board with confidence that important decisions are being taken at the appropriate levels, and information flows both up and down the reporting lines.
Board of Directors Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee You can read more in the Audit You can read more in the Remuneration You can read more in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 87 to 94.
Committee Report on pages 95 to 113.
Committee Report on pages 84 to 86.
Disclosure Committee General Administration Committee The Disclosure Committee is a sub-committee of the Board which The General Administration Committee is a sub-committee of the comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer Board which comprises of any two directors of the Company, at and the Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary.
least one of whom must be an Executive Director.
The Committee is responsible to the Board and provides The principal duties of the Committee include attending to information to assist with the identification of inside information and administrative and procedural matters in relation to existing bank makes recommendations as to how and when the Company and finance facilities and matters of a routine manner relating to should disclose that information, in accordance with all applicable the Companys share capital.
Minutes of meetings of the General legal and regulatory requirements.
Administration Committee are made available to all Directors at the Board meetings.
The Terms of Reference of the Disclosure Committee are set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the General Administration Committee are set out in writing and approved by the Board.
Chief Executive Officer Group Executive The Group Executive is responsible for ensuring that each of the Groups businesses are managed effectively and that the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the Board, are achieved.
Biographical details of the members of the Group Executive can be found on page 70.
The Group Executive is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
The Group Executives role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information on all aspects of business performance, managing and minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career development planning.
It also approves major items of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
In the period ended 31 December 2018, the Group Executive met 13 times.
Management Committees In addition to the Board Committees, there are several management committees, known as Excellence Committees.
The Excellence Committees have clearly defined remits and work across the Group to promote best practice and information sharing.
The Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive can delegate their responsibilities to these committees and utilise the areas of expertise contained within them.
The Excellence Committees report to the Group Executive and to the Board as required.
Risk Committee Finance Excellence Committee Engineering Excellence Value Chain Excellence Committee Committee SHE Excellence Committee Group Information Services HR Excellence Committee CEOs Safety Committee Excellence Committee Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 75 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Board meeting attendance 2018 % of meetings Name Scheduled board meetings 2018 attended 23 Jan 26 Feb 26 Apr 19 Jun 27 Jul 04 Sep 22 Oct 17 Dec Total Charles Berry Chairman 100% Jon Stanton 100% John Heasley 100% Rick Menell 100% Clare Chapman 100% Cal Collins n a n a n a n a 100% Mary Jo Jacobi 100% Barbara Jeremiah 100% Sir Jim McDonald 100% Stephen Young 100% Alan Ferguson n a n a n a n a n a 100% John Mogford n a n a n a n a n a 100% % of meetings Name Unscheduled board meetings 2018 attended 22 Feb 27 Mar 08 Apr 15 Apr 30 Sep Total Charles Berry Chairman 100% Jon Stanton 100% John Heasley 80% Rick Menell 100% Clare Chapman 80% Cal Collins n a n a n a n a 0% Mary Jo Jacobi 80% Barbara Jeremiah 100% Sir Jim McDonald 100% Stephen Young 100% Alan Ferguson n a 75% John Mogford n a 100% 1.
Cal Collins was appointed to the Board on 12 July 2018.
Alan Ferguson stepped down on 26 April 2018.
John Mogford stepped down on 26 April 2018.
Board Meetings the relevant Board papers and provide their The 2019 annual timetable was discussed at the The Board meets regularly in order to effectively feedback accordingly.
Board meeting in 2017 and circulated as soon as it discharge its duties.
Board meetings are held in was finalised.
The 2020 timetable was reviewed In October 2018, the Board meeting was held person or by telepresence video-conferencing.
This process ensures that the in Portland, USA and full details can be found on During 2018, there were 8 scheduled meetings Chairman can be comfortable that each Director page 78. and 5 additional unscheduled Board meetings.
is able to devote the time and resources required In addition to the formal Board meetings, the The table above details the attendance at to act as a Director during that period.
The system Board maintains an open dialogue throughout Board meetings of each of the Directors for establishing the agenda items means that the year and contact by telephone occurs during their term of office for the period to both the Chairman and the Board have the whenever necessary.
As encouraged by the 31 December 2018. confidence that all required items are included at Code, the Non-Executive Directors, including the the most appropriate time of the year and there Due to business requirements, on occasion Chairman, met during the year without Executive is sufficient time allocated for discussion by the unscheduled Board meetings are required Directors present.
Board, allowing the Directors to discharge their to be called at short notice.
This can result in duties effectively.
The Boards annual timetable is discussed at some Directors being unable to attend due to least 12 months prior to its commencement to prior commitments.
Directors who are unable allow the Directors to plan their time accordingly.
to attend still have the opportunity to review The Weir Group PLC 76 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance continued Board Activities During 2018 During the year, the Chairman, supported by Board Activity the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary, maintained a rolling 12-month agenda Strategy Setting strategy targets.
for Board and Committee meetings.
Reviewing potential mergers and acquisitions.
At each meeting, the Board received reports from Product development and innovation.
the Chief Executive Officer and other members of the Group Executive.
This included updates and Risk Risk Appetite Statement.
information on safety, strategy, legal and financial Groups risk and internal control framework.
The Board also receives updates from Crisis management.
each Committee Chair on items from the most Governance Legal updates and new disclosure requirements.
recent committee meeting as well as periodic The UK Corporate Governance Code.
Standing items also included Board review.
reviewing the Groups risk dashboard and internal controls, safety, strategy and succession planning.
Finance Oversight of the preparation and management of the financial statements.
In order to effectively discharge their duties, Dividend policy.
the Non-Executive Directors met regularly with Tax and treasury.
senior management and received presentations by members of the Groups senior management Stakeholder AGM and other shareholder feedback.
team and other external advisers as required.
engagement Investor calls, meetings and roadshows.
The Board also received an annual review on the Oversight of remuneration consultation process.
following matters: asbestos, insurance and risk Employee engagement management, the Ethics Hotline, Value Chain Safety SHE Standards and Management System.
Excellence, HR, tax, treasury and agents.
The Boards time during 2018 can be grouped into six key areas as outlined above.
A portion of their time is also spent on administrative matters.
Re-election future conflict or a material change to an Directors are informed of important changes In accordance with the Companys Articles of existing authorisation.
Upon receipt of any such to laws and regulations affecting the Groups Association and good practice, Cal Collins and notification, the Board, in accordance with the business and their duties as Directors.
In addition, Engelbert Haan will offer themselves for election Companys Articles of Association, will consider the Board meets once a year or more at one of at the Companys AGM on 30 April 2019.
All other the situation before deciding whether to approve the Groups operational sites, which includes Directors on the Board at 31 December 2018 the perceived conflict.
At the outset of every presentations from key senior employees and will seek re-election at the Companys AGM in Board meeting, the Chairman also checks that no the opportunity to meet employees across the compliance with the Code.
Only those Directors global operations.
who have no interest in the matter being The Executive Directors have contracts of service considered are able to take part in the relevant The Board is supplied in a timely manner with with one years notice, whilst Non-Executive decision and Directors are able to impose limits the appropriate information to enable it to Directors appointments can be terminated with or conditions when giving authorisation if they discharge its duties.
The Chairman ensures that six months notice.
The letters of appointment of think this is appropriate.
The Director in question Non-Executive Directors are properly briefed the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors will then be notified of the outcome.
Overall, on any issues arising at Board meetings and are available for inspection at the Companys the Board is satisfied that there are appropriate Non-Executive Directors have the ability to registered office and set out the required procedures in place to deal with conflicts of communicate with the Chairman at any time.
Further details interest and that they have operated effectively.
can also be found in the Directors Remuneration Company Secretary Report on pages 95 to 113.
Details of the None of the Non-Executive Directors have any The Company Secretary plays a leading role Directors service contracts, emoluments, the material business or other relationship with the in the good governance of the Company by interests of the Directors in the share capital of Company or its management.
Sir Jim McDonald supporting the Chairman and helping the Board the Company and options to subscribe for shares is the Principal and Vice Chancellor of the and its Committees to function efficiently.
in the Company are disclosed in the Directors University of Strathclyde, but he has no direct The Company Secretary advises the Board Remuneration Report on pages 95 to 113. involvement on a day-to-day basis in relation to on governance matters and is available to all the Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC Directors for advice as required.
Together with the Directors and their Other Interests which is operated by the Company in conjunction Chairman, the Company Secretary keeps under Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director of a with the University of Strathclyde.
Nevertheless, review the governance processes adopted by company must avoid a situation in which he or he will offer to recuse himself from any the Company to ensure that they remain fit for she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest discussions in relation to the relationship between purpose and considers any improvements that that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the Group and the University of Strathclyde, could strengthen the governance framework of the interests of the Company.
The Company whether in relation to WARC or otherwise.
The Company Secretary is the has a formal procedure in place to manage the Secretary to the Board Committees and ensures disclosure, consideration and, if appropriate, that the Committees adhere to the highest the authorisation of any such possible conflict.
standards of Corporate Governance and apply Each Director is aware of the requirement to the provisions and principles of the UK Corporate notify the Board, via the Company Secretary, Governance Code.
as soon as they become aware of any possible Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 77 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Board effectiveness evaluation cycle The Board Effectiveness Review operates on a three-year cycle.
This year, the Board Effectiveness Review was undertaken by The Effective Board LLP, who have no other connection with the Company.
The process is detailed in the table below.
The findings of this years Review have been positive and confirmed that the Board and its Committees operate effectively and that each Director contributes to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group.
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Internal Evaluation Internal Evaluation External Evaluation Circulate findings report from previous year Circulate findings report from previous year Interviews Online confidential questionnaire Online confidential questionnaire Observation Analysis and discussion at Board meeting Analysis and discussion at Board meeting Analysis and discussion at Board meeting Individual meetings with Chairman and Directors post evaluation The process was divided into four stages: Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 The questionnaire was split into The on-line questionnaire was The Board Effectiveness report The Chairman presented the findings was sent to the Chairman and various categories: Success, completed by the Board and the from the Review to the Board at the Committee Effectiveness Strategy, Board Composition, Company Secretary.
the December 2018 Board meeting reports were sent to each of the Executive Team, Financial and actions for the forthcoming Committee Chairs.
and Operational Resources, year agreed.
Communication with Employees, The effectiveness reports of the Chairman and Company Secretary Shareholders and other Stakeholders, were sent to the SID and Chairman Performance Measurement respectively.
Systems, Risk Management Systems and Boards processes, Follow up meetings were held with the Chairman.
Outcomes from 2017 Progress against outcomes from 2017 Further enhancement of Non-Executive Directors engagement with various Increased number of Non-Executive Directors site visits and a procedure levels of the business and a more structured schedule of informal site visits.
approved by the Board on NED site visit protocol taking into account employee engagement.
Continued increased focus of the Board on people and culture, as the new Chief People Officer works with the Executive team on succession planning, Deep dives and increased updates provided at Board meetings from the Chief talent management and employee engagement as well as enhanced People Officer in relation to employee engagement, succession planning and reporting to the Board in these areas.
A review and possible refinement of the annual calendar and schedule The annual Board calendar and cycle of Board and Committee meetings was of meetings.
The schedule now allows for Committee meetings to be held the day before the Board meetings, allowing the Board members more time for discussion and consideration.
Findings from 2018 Outcomes from 2018 The Board were positive in their views of the Boards effectiveness.
Continue to focus on Succession Planning below Executive level.
Succession Planning works well at Board level however further Support the further development of Diversity.
improvements should be planned for Executive level and below.
It was agreed that the Board has improved the level of Diversity, but further development is required.
Each Director brings different skills, governance matters from the Company Secretary The Board considers that it has the right experience and knowledge to the Company, with and visits to the Companys operations.
combination of skills, experience, independence the Non-Executive Directors bringing additional The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with and knowledge to be effective in meeting the independent thought and judgement.
The roles each Director their training and development needs of the Group.
More than half of the Board of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer needs.
Additional induction and training is are Non-Executive Directors who are considered are separate, with each having clearly defined also available to new committee members as by the Board to be independent in character duties and responsibilities which are set out in required.
Training is also built into the Board and judgement.
writing and approved by the Board.
The roles and meetings, with relevant topics being covered.
responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director This combination of individuals and skills ensures are also set out in writing and are available on the that the Board is sufficiently balanced and that Companys website.
no individual or group of individuals can dominate the decision-making process.
It also allows for Board Induction an effective division of responsibilities within When a new Director is appointed to the Board, the Board and its Committees.
The positions they are provided with information on the of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are Groups structure, operations, policies and other held separately and are clearly defined in relevant documentation.
Each Director devotes sufficient time also includes meetings with senior Executives and attention in order to perform their duties in the Company, a formal briefing on legal and The Weir Group PLC 78 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance continued Governance in action: Board visit to Portland, USA Software Engineer, Vikram Sitaram, was given In October 2018 the Board spent three The overall takeaway from the discussion is the chance to present a brief overview of days at ESCO divisional headquarters that I was encouraged to take chancesand digital applications.
Following the visit Vikram in Portland, Oregon, meeting people be part of finding solutions to problems.
said, It was exciting to be able to see the and learning more about the Groups The Board were also given a tour of ESCOs keen interest displayed by the board and the newest division.
manufacturing Plant 3 during their visit.
questions that they had around the product.
During the first day of their visit Non-Executive Plant 3 has made remarkable progress in board members, Mary Jo Jacobi, Clare upgrading their facility to Weir Safety, Health Chapman and Barbara Jeremiah along with & Environment standards during the last Group Executive members Geetha Dabir few months.
Every employee had a role Chief Technology Officer and Rosemary in helping to make facility improvements McGinness Chief People Officer, joined said Kat Robinson, SHE manager for Plant a panel discussion, hosted by the ESCO 3.
While there is still progress to be made, Womens Network.
ESCO engineer, Yesenia this strategic alignment will help make our Torres, lead discussions on diversity and workplace safer for all employees.
inclusion in the workplace, professional and The Board rounded off their visit at the Hank personal development and collaboration.
This research Speaking after the panel discussion, Sun Ah and development facility is a key hub in the Cho, from the Weir Oil & Gas Fort Worth growth of advanced technology and allowed team, but currently working in Portland, the board to see products including Core commented, My initial feeling was a sense mining GET Ground Engaging Tools, a of inclusiveness as one of many women Warman pump, and the suite of Weir and working in the industry.
ESCO digital products up close and in-action.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 79 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Mary Jo Jacobi to lead the Boards employee engagement work Strengthening the links between employees and the Board.
Building employee engagement to promote an open and transparent culture.
Working to ensure that all Weir employees can have a voice in our future success.
Mary Jo Jacobi Employee Engagement Non-Executive Director Why do you think it is important that the How will you ensure that the views of In addition to these structured events, we voice of employees is a part of Board room employees are integrated into the work of are developing mechanisms for less formal discussion?
the Board and the strategy of the business?
engagement between the Board and Weir As a Board member my job is to offer Weirs global engagement strategy involves teams around the world, such as encouraging constructive challenge informed by my ensuring regular and constructive dialogue travelling Non-Executive Directors to visit sites.
I have spent much of my career between employees and leadership.
Why has the Board decided that this is the helping organisations to communicate As Non-Executive Directors specifically, we most effective way to bring employee voice effectively and a key lesson is to listen first.
have regular and varied engagements with to the Board table?
The success of every enterprise depends on its employees, including site visits such as those This is the start of a long journey that will people, and for the Board to operate effectively we undertook in Portland and Madison in include a variety of mechanisms to build the views and feedback of our employees 2018, and the engagement undertaken during on Weirs broader employee engagement are vital.
the onboarding of our newest Non-Executive approach.
We will monitor our progress and Directors which presented excellent At Weir, I have always admired the candour refine our approach to ensure we get good opportunities.
From 2019 onwards were going of people across the organisation and am results.
We will know whats working because to go further by setting up new Employee delighted to be able to help build on the broader people across the Group will tell us, and well Voice Forums to share feedback with the engagement strategy already in place to be listening.
Weirs culture is a great advantage Board and Group Executive.
ensure those perspectives are represented in for us in these endeavours.
It is an honour for me to These forums will be organised geographically, represent the views of the workforce around in line with our Board and Group Executive the Board table.
They will comprise a diverse range of employees who will meet What does your role involve?
with us to discuss a range of business topics I see the job first as listening and then where employee feedback will help drive the articulating and advocating the views of the Company forward and improve how we do employees to help the Board make better things.
The employee voice representatives informed decisions based on the broad participating in these forums will be encouraged perspectives of the workforce, as well as other to gather a broad range of their colleagues stakeholders.
Weir Board members have voices before meeting with the Board, and always had great conversations when we visit they will be prepared to provide feedback after facilities but we are formalising that process to the meetings.
ensure there is greater consistency to gathering employee feedback and promoting twoThis approach to employee voice forums will way conversations.
also align with our plans to introduce regional employee AGMs in line with our all employee share plan launch in 2019.
