The Weir Group PLC 72 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Board of Directors Leadership: A view from the Boardroom Board Q&A Charles Berry, Chairman Barbara Jeremiah, Non-Executive Director Sir Jim McDonald, Non-Executive Director How has the Board overseen the cultural Does Weir have diversity initiatives and are they What considerations and steps has Weir taken integration of ESCO?
linked to the organisational strategy?
towards effective engagement with wider ESCO Corporation was a proud business that had a stakeholders?
We see a clear alignment between our diversity 105-year record of independence and a strong family We take pride in developing and sustaining mutuallyinitiatives and our organisational strategy.
We believe culture underpinned by substantial shareholdings successful relationships with all of our stakeholders, that only with a truly inclusive culture will we be held by descendants of the ESCO founder C. F. ensuring that we hear the voices of our customers, in a position to achieve our vision of becoming the Swigert.
When we first approached their board suppliers and the wider communities in which we most admired engineering business in our markets.
about joining Weir, they made clear the importance operate based on open and honest communication, By harnessing the diversity of our employees, we of handing over the company to a business that trust and mutual respect.
are able to fully understand and deliver distinctive shared their culture and values.
They recognised that solutions to our equally diverse customer base.
Our We are Weir strategy recognises the value Weir would be a good steward for their company and Recognising and celebrating difference will act as a in working in partnership with our customers to from initial meetings through due diligence and post catalyst and enabler for innovation and the new ideas provide distinctive solutions that deliver compelling completion, we prioritised clear communications that can allow us to outperform in every aspect of value for money.
For example, within our mining with all employees, introducing Weir to ESCO and our business.
In 2018 we established the first ever operations, our strategy over the past couple of ESCO to Weir.
This took the form of employee Global Inclusion & Diversity Steering Committee and years has allowed us to expand geographically in meetings, webcasts and site visits.
Our approach named Chief Financial Officer John Heasley as our key markets and moved our focus very much to throughout was to be open, honest and welcoming.
Group Executive Sponsor for Inclusion & Diversity.
At a community engagement The result was an increase in employee engagement The committee is comprised of 14 employees from level, across the world we have strong relationships from the announcement of the acquisition through various roles and locations across the globe and has with the communities in which we are based.
completion, achieved while also delivering strong been tasked with working together to identify Weirs Supporting communities is one of the key pillars of growth in positive markets.
approach to Inclusion & Diversity going forward.
our philanthropic approach alongside our other pillars Key initiatives will focus on: of health and education and we engage with our communities on many levels including donations to Gender: To encourage a culture that is equally community causes.
Additionally, many of our global conducive to the progression of men and women, sites encourage local community involvement by we are committed to gender equality.
supporting volunteering days and matched giving All other diversity: Looking at how we can develop activities for local causes.
an environment where all individual differences are respected, allowing us to grow and succeed, both as an organisation and as individuals.
Rick Menell, Senior Independent Director What makes the Weir business model successful and how does it align with the Companys purpose and values?
The Weir business model is at the heart of how our Group creates value for all our stakeholders.
Its simplicity is part of its strength.
We make highly engineered mission critical solutions used in  operations that require Cal Collins, Non-Executive Director comprehensive global support.
That supports our vision and mission and underpins our culture of How does the Board use technology to monitor innovative engineering.
Our business model helps us the culture of the Company?
focus on where we can make the biggest difference The Board is mindful of the role it has to play in and provides a bedrock for the Group, from how monitoring the culture of the Company and leading we construct our portfolio to where we invest our by example to demonstrate the Weir values.
It builds success In 2018 the Company undertook its first ever global by maximising opportunities in market upturns and in employee survey.
We partnered with Peakon and more challenging conditions provides real resilience used their state of the art engagement survey due to the high proportion of ongoing aftermarket technology.
This allowed us to benefit from the revenues it generates.
It gives our people a clear latest approaches in engagement including multi sense of what Weir does and why we do it and it is language survey questions the survey was offered therefore crucial to our purpose and values.
to employees in 29 languages, and its real-time reporting and manager dashboard.
This has empowered our managers to get access to local insights and use these insights to take progressive action with their teams.
