Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 87 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Audit Committee Report I am pleased to present our report Membership toshareholders for the year ended The members of the Committee, other than 31December 2018. myself, are Sir Jim McDonald, Barbara Jeremiah and Rick Menell, all of whom are independent This is my first year as Chairman of the Audit Non-Executive Directors.
Sir Jim McDonald, Committee and as a Chartered Management Barbara Jeremiah and I have been members Accountant and previous Chief Executive of the Committee for the full year.
Rick Menell and Finance Director of Meggitt PLC, I can has been a member of the Board since 2009 confirm that I bring recent and relevant financial and joined the Committee in April 2018. experience to the Committee.
After six years as Audit Committee Chairman, This report will outline how the Committee has Alan Ferguson stepped down from the Board Stephen Young fulfilled its key objective of providing effective and this Committee in April 2018, as did Chairman governance over the appropriateness of the John Mogford.
Committee membership in 2018 The Committee members have, through their Areas of focus other business activities, significant experience Stephen Young Committee Chairman Our key objective is achieved by focusing on, in financial matters.
They have been selected Barbara Jeremiah amongst other things: with the aim of providing the wide range of Sir Jim McDonald financial and commercial expertise necessary to the adequacy of accounting policies and fulfil our responsibilities.
Summary biographies disclosures, as well as the areas requiring Rick Menell re-appointed have been presented on pages 68 and 69. significant estimates or judgements: the performance of both the internal audit Meetings Other regular attendees by invitation function and the external auditor: and We met four times during the year and have Charles Berry, Chairman oversight of the Groups systems of internal met twice since the year end.
Each Committee Jon Stanton, Chief Executive Officer control, and the framework for identification meeting normally takes place prior to a Board and management of business risks and related meeting, during which I provide a report on John Heasley, Chief Financial Officer assurance activities.
Kirsten McCargo, Group Financial Controller There is at least one meeting each year when David Kyles, Head of Internal Audit we meet with each of the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors separately, without any Lindsay Gardiner  Executive management present.
This provides LLP, Group Audit Partner us with the opportunity for any issues of Graham Vanhegan, Secretary concern to be raised by, or with, the auditors.
Audit Committee meeting attendance % of meetings Name Committee meetings 2018 attended Member since 22 Jan 26 Feb 26-Jul 22-Oct Total Stephen Young Chair 1 January 2018 100% Rick Menell 26 April 2018 100% Barbara Jeremiah 1 August 2017 100% Sir Jim McDonald 1 January 2015 100% 3 John Mogford 1 August 2008 100% 4 Alan Ferguson 13 December 2011 100% 1.
Stephen Young became Chairman on 26 April 2018.
Rick Menell re-joined on 26 April 2018.
John Mogford stepped down on 26 April 2018.
Alan Ferguson stepped down on 26 April 2018.
Read more Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website at www.
weir The Weir Group PLC 88 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report continued We have the ability to call on Group employees to We received formal reports from the Chief process over the last 12 months, as well as an assist in our work and to obtain any information Financial Officer and the external auditor, overview of their divisional finance teams.
required from Executive Directors in order to summarising the main discussion points for both Focus is given to: carry out our roles and duties.
We are also able to the Interim Report in our July 2018 meeting and 1. t he strength and depth of the finance obtain outside legal or independent professional Annual Report during our January and February teams capability: advice if required.
2. t he quality and efficiency of responses to The table above details the Board members In addition, we received regular updates in findings of internal audit visits, including and members of senior management who respect of new accounting standards during whether learning has been shared more were invited to attend meetings as appropriate the year.
widely across the Group to mitigate the risk of during the calendar year.
In addition, The financial reporting matters discussed in recurrence and share good practice to: and  LLP PwC attended the current year and recurring agenda items are the meetings by invitation as auditors to 3. t he quality of the discussion around divisional summarised in the table on pages 91 to 94. the Group.
ii Internal control and risk management Main activities The ESCO presentation provided the Overall responsibility for the Groups risk Over the course of the year since the last Committee with an excellent opportunity soon management and internal control frameworks Annual Report, our work was focused in the after acquisition to meet the DFD, gain an rests with the Board.
Further details on following areas: understanding of the Divisions finance team and accountability for Risk Management are provided obtain an understanding of the legacy internal in the Corporate Governance Report on page 80. i financial reporting: audit procedures accompanied by a preliminary ii internal control and risk management: Our role with regard to risk management has assessment of internal controls under the iii internal audit: and been delegated by the Board and is to review Weir framework.
the effectiveness of the Groups risk and internal The Compliance Scorecard is a control The following sections provide more detail control frameworks.
mechanism whereby each operating company on our specific items of focus under each of Our work in this area was supported by reporting undertakes self-assessments, every six months, these headings, explaining the work we, as a from the Head of Internal Audit on the results of their compliance with Group policies and Committee, have undertaken and the results of of the programme of internal audits completed: procedures, including key internal controls that work.
the overall assessment of the internal control across a range of categories including finance, i Financial reporting environment: and in addition, reporting, either anti-bribery and corruption, tax, treasury, trade Our principal responsibility in this area is verbal or written, from senior management and customs, HR, IT and legal.
As far as the the review and challenge of the actions and covering any investigations into known or elements relating to finance are concerned, judgements of management in relation to the suspected fraudulent activities.
We also noted these cover but are not limited to management interim and annual financial statements before the additional work undertaken for the Board on accounts and financial reporting, balance sheet submission to the Board, paying particular a review of the sources of assurance which were controls, employee costs and other financial attention to: mapped against the principal risks see iii Internal policies.
Each operating company is expected audit below.
critical accounting policies and practices, and to prepare and execute action plans to address any changes therein: The Committee also receives regular reporting on any weaknesses identified as part of the selfdecisions requiring significant judgements, the Groups compliance-related activities from the assessment process.
areas of significant estimate, or where there has Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary and Operating companies are required to retain been discussion with the external auditor: Head of Internal Audit.
This includes reviewing evidence of their testing in support of their the existence of any errors, adjusted or compliance with the Groups Ethics Helpline self-assessment responses.
Internal audit has unadjusted, resulting from the audit: programme which provides a mechanism for responsibility for confirming the self-assessment the clarity of the disclosures and compliance employees with concerns about the conduct during planned visits.
Any significant variances with accounting standards and relevant financial of the Group or its employees to report their are reported to local, divisional and Group and governance reporting requirements, concerns.
The Committee ensures that management.
Any companies reporting low including an assessment of adoption of the appropriate arrangements are in place to receive levels of compliance are required to prepare going concern basis of accounting and a and act proportionately upon a complaint about improvement plans to demonstrate how they review of the process and financial modelling malpractice.
The Committee takes a particular will improve over a reasonable period of time.
underpinning the Groups Viability Statement: interest in any reports of possible improprieties in The overall compliance scores as a percentage and financial reporting.
are tracked over time and reported to the Audit the processes surrounding the compilation of During 2018, there have been presentations Committee twice a year, with the Committee the Annual Report and Financial Statements from three Divisional Finance Directors paying particular attention to the variances with regard to presenting a fair, balanced and DFDs including one from the newly acquired between self-assessed and internal audit understandable assessment of the Groups ESCO DFD.
For the existing Divisions, these position and prospects.
presentations included a review of the divisional risk dashboards, significant findings from the internal audit visits and the Compliance Scorecard Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 89 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 assessed scores as well as trends and the technology risk profiling exercise undertaken These interactions are also important in our performance of newly acquired companies.
This risk profiling will continue to be assessment of audit quality.
built on over the course of the year including iii Internal audit Based on the work carried out, we are of the view the further development and utilisation of data The Head of Internal Audit reports to the that the quality of the audit process is satisfactory analytics techniques.
Committee on audit activities, progress and that our expectations set, when awarding the against the internal audit plan and the results Also, as part of the Annual Plan, reviews are audit to PwC in 2016, continue to be met.
of audit visits, with particular focus on high to be undertaken to assess compliance with Independence policy and non-audit services priority findings and the action plans, including Weirs Code of Conduct procedures, including The Audit Committee is responsible for the management responses, to address these areas.
This includes areas appointment and role of the auditor.
This includes such as policy and procedures, employee Private discussions between myself and the keeping under review the auditors independence training, relationships with agents, accounting Head of Internal Audit are held during the year and by issuing guidelines on any non-audit services for employee expenses and corporate hospitality once a year with the full Committee.
I also receive that are to be provided by them.
Finally, an element of the Annual Plan is copies of all internal audit reports issued during exists see www.
weir which ensures that reserved for assurance coverage of any emerging the year.
the nature of the advice to be provided cannot risk areas.
impair the objectivity of the auditors opinion on This gives us broad coverage of the activities The Committee considered and approved the the Groups Financial Statements.
The policy of the function and a good sense of the control 2019 Internal Audit Annual Plan including the makes it clear that only certain types of service environment.
This also allows us to ensure the resource model, which remains at similar level are permitted to be carried out by the auditors.
function is effective which includes assessing to 2018.
All permitted non-audit services require the the independence of the function, adequately approval of the Chief Financial Officer and, where resourced and has appropriate standing within iv External audit the expected cost of the service is in excess the Company.
Auditor effectiveness of 75,000, the approval of myself, the Audit The effectiveness of the external audit process One of the main duties of the Committee is to Committee Chairman.
If non-audit fees approach is highly dependent on appropriate audit risk review the annual internal audit plan and to ensure 0.5m during a calendar year, the Committee identification at the start of the audit cycle and that internal audit remains focused on providing will consider imposing additional restrictions on the quality of planning.
PwC present their detailed effective assurance.
We have continued to build non-audit services.
The auditor confirms their audit plan to the Committee each year identifying on the exercise started in 2017 to map the key independence at least annually.
their assessment of the key risks, amongst sources of assurance against the Groups core other matters.
Fees payable to PwC in respect of audit processes to ensure internal audit planning and assurance services for 2018 of 3.8m considers wider internal assurance risk indicators.
Our assessment of the effectiveness and quality 2017: 2.6m were approved by the Committee This has been helped by the implementation of the audit process covers a number of other after a review of the level and nature of work to of a risk modelling tool.
The resulting 2019 plan matters, including a review of the reporting be performed and after being satisfied by PwC continues to focus the majority of resource on from the auditors to the Committee, a review of that the fees were appropriate for the scope of financial assurance whilst incorporating wider the latest FRC Audit Quality Inspection report the work required.
The increase in level of fees for risk assurance coverage, both financial and nonon PwC and also by seeking feedback from 2018 is due to the addition of ESCO and includes financial, as described below.
management on the effectiveness of the audit an element of fees for specific work in relation to process.
Overall, management were satisfied that The factors considered when deciding which the opening balance sheet.
there had been appropriate focus and challenge businesses to audit and the scope of each audit, on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed Non-audit fee work conducted by PwC in including consideration of the number of visits the quality of the audit process to be satisfactory.
the year of 0.4m 2017: 0.3m represented to each operating company in the Group on a 10% 2017: 10% of the audit fee and primarily cyclical basis are, amongst other things, the The Committee holds private meetings with the related to audit work on non-statutory financial volatility of end markets, critical system or senior external auditor each year to provide additional statements.
We are of the view that the level and management changes in the year, financial opportunity for open dialogue and feedback nature of non-audit work does not compromise results, the timing of the most recent internal from the Committee and the auditor without the independence of the external auditor.
audit visit, assessments from other assurance management being present.
Matters typically reviews undertaken and whether the business is discussed include the auditors assessment of Having considered the relationship with PwC, a recent acquisition.
With specific regard to the business risks and management activity thereon, their qualifications, expertise, resources and latter, the 2019 plan incorporates a number of the transparency and openness of interactions effectiveness, the Committee concluded that visits to the newly acquired ESCO.
with management, confirmation that there has they remained independent and effective for been no restriction in scope placed on them the purposes of the 2018 year end.
As a result, In addition, the emergence of any common by management and how they have exercised themes or trends in the findings of recent internal professional scepticism.
I also meet with the audits or compliance scorecard submissions see lead audit partner outside the formal committee previous section is taken into consideration.
process as necessary throughout the year.
For 2019, the IT risk assurance programme continues to be based on the information The Weir Group PLC 90 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report continued the Committee recommended to the Board that We have made good progress on the second PwC should be reappointed as auditor at the focus area as discussed in the internal audit next AGM.
section above and this will continue to develop over 2019.
Committee evaluation The Committees effectiveness was reviewed Our focus for 2019 during the year through an internal Board In addition to our routine business, in 2019 our Effectiveness Review, facilitated by The Effective focus will be on: Board LLP.
Their report was presented to the 1.
A ssurance and controls in the newly acquired Board in December 2018.
ESCO division as integration progresses: and The evaluation concluded that the Committee 2.
R esponding to changes in the UK Corporate was performing well and no significant areas of Governance Code.
Several recommendations were made which have since been addressed by introducing specific items into existing reports to the Committee or additional recurring agenda items.
Stephen Young Our focus for 2018 Chairman of the In last years report we said that, in addition to our Audit Committee routine business, we would increase focus on the 27 February 2019 following two areas: 1.
M anage the significant change in the members of the Committee: and, 2.
R eview how the broadened internal audit approach has bedded down within the business.
With regard to the first of these, I joined the Board and Audit Committee in January 2018 and had the benefit of attending two Audit Committee meetings before assuming the role of Audit Committee Chairman.
Since taking on the role of Chairman, I attended formal induction meetings with the Groups senior finance management including the Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasurer and Head of Tax and met with PwC.
I have also enjoyed visits to several of the businesses throughout the year.
Rick Menell, having been a long serving non-Executive Director of the Group as well as holding the position of Senior Independent Director on the Board, required less formal induction to the Committee.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 91 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Current year matters Area of focus Issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Exceptional items Management We have received detailed reporting from the Chief The Committee agrees exercises judgement FinancialOfficer covering the following aspects of the withthe accounting see notes 5 and 21 of on the classification exceptional charges: treatment and disclosure of thefinancial statements ofcertain items as these items in the Annual i charge credit by Division, including the nature of the exceptional.
items: ii explanation of the acquisition accounting treatment whichhas given rise to the unwind of the ESCO inventoryfair value uplift recognised on acquisition seenext section : iii analysis of the ESCO acquisition and integration costs: iv accounting treatment adopted in relation to the legacy product warranty issue including related provisions: v analysis of restructuring charges and related provisions: vi accounting treatment adopted when providing for Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation: vii an alysis and explanation of the accounting treatment adopted with respect to the discontinued operations exceptional items: and viii disclosure of the amounts and related narrative reporting.
Our work has focused on ensuring that these items were exceptional due to their size, nature and or frequency.
We noted the items reflected the way in which we, as members of the Board, reviewed the underlying performance of the Group and were disclosed appropriately.
We also received confirmation from PwC that managements treatment was acceptable.
Consideration was also given to the current balance sheet position of all related exceptional provisions, including both newrestructuring provisions and those remaining from previous multi-year programmes, with management providingdetails of the remaining liabilities and expected utilisation.
Acquisition Management We received a summary report from management which The Committee agrees accounting for ESCO exercises judgement outlined: withthe acquisition on the type of accounting treatment and i the purchase price allocation exercise which identified and see note 13 of the intangible assets disclosure of the ESCO valued separately identifiable intangible assets: financialstatements acquired and acquisition in the Annual ii the assessment of acquisition fair values, with a estimates are made Report.
particularfocus on the inventory uplift and provisions: ofthe fair value of all and assets and liabilities.
iii the related disclosures in the financial statements displayed in note 13.
We reviewed the resulting valuations, understood the reasonsbehind the fair value adjustments made and comparedresults to recent Weir acquisitions as well as industry-wide comparisons.
We took assurance from the factthat external advisors were engaged by the Company toassist with the purchase price allocation and we receivedconfirmation from PwC that managements assumptions andcalculation methodology were appropriate.
The Weir Group PLC 92 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report continued Current year matters Area of focus Issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Discontinued Following the We have received detailed reporting from the Chief The Committee agrees operations announcement of the FinancialOfficer covering: withthe discontinued Groups intention to operations accounting i accounting treatment of Flow Control as a see note 8 of the sell Flow Control, treatment, prior year : financialstatements management have restatement and the related ii prior period restatements: disclosed Flow disclosures in the Annual Controlas a Report.
iii the carrying value of Flow control: and discontinued iv related presentation and disclosures in the Annual operationand record Report.
the assets and liabilities as Held for We considered the accounting treatment and reviewed the Sale.
We specifically considered the carryingvalue of Flow Control see Impairment Section below and reviewed the exceptional charge taken to reflect fair value less costs to sell.
PwC confirmed the treatment and related disclosures were appropriate.
New accounting The introduction of We have received detailed reporting from the Chief Financial The Committee agrees standards new accounting Officer covering: withthe prior year standards has required restatement and related i the prior year restatement related to the adoption of IFRS see note 2 of the changes in accounting disclosures in the Annual 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, and related financialstatements policy, treatment and Report.
changes to policy and disclosures in the Annual Report: disclosures.
ii the impact of adopting IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, and related changes to policy and disclosures in the Annual Report: and, iii the anticipated impact of adopting IFRS 16 Leases and related changes to policy and disclosures in the Annual Report.
We considered the impacts and reviewed related disclosures in the Annual Report.
We have received confirmation from PwC that they are in agreement with the disclosures.
Recurring agenda items Area of focus Issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Impairment Management The most significant estimates are in setting the assumptions We are satisfied that the undertakes an annual underpinning the calculation of the value in use of the Cash impairment analysis see note 14 of the detailed, formal GeneratingUnits CGUs.
In respect of continuing operations, we supportsthe carrying value financial impairment review of specifically reviewed: ofthe underlying assets in statements goodwill and other each continuing CGU and i the achievability of the long-term business plan numbers and intangible assets, thatthe carrying value of macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process: withjudgements Flow Control reflects its fair ii long-term growth rates and discount rates used in the cash flow made on the relevant value less costs to sell.
models for all of the CGUs: and Cash Generating Unitsand estimates iii the rationale for ESCO to be treated as a new CGU.
ofavailable Business plans and budgets were Board-approved and underpin the headroom.
We have considered the sensitivity analysis supplied by management.
For discontinued operations, we considered the basis of valuation anddeem it appropriate for Flow Control to be measured at fair valueless costs to sell with the resulting write down to Flow Controlscarrying value being recognised in exceptional items.
We have reviewed the relevant disclosures in the financial statementsand the related narrative and also received confirmationfrom PwC that they are in agreement with managements conclusions.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 93 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Recurring agenda items Area of focus Issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Provisions Significant balance The focus of the Audit Committee was on the exceptional We are satisfied that the sheet provisions are provisionsincluding the linkage to the charges recorded in the current provisioning levels see note 21 of the underpinned by IncomeStatement, the employee-related provisions, specifically and approach are financial managements key theelement in respect of US asbestos-related claims, and appropriate, as is the statements judgements on provisionsrelating to ESCO.
recognition of a matching obligating events and insurance asset in relation The Committees work in relation to exceptional items is discussed in timeframes over tothe US asbestos the current year matters section.
With regard to the US asbestos-related provision, following the estimate for provision triennial actuarial review in 2017, the Committee focus was centred on values can be made.
gaining an understanding of: i the actual claims and settlement data and their relation to the assumptions that underpin the discounted cash flow model: ii the period over which the liability can be reasonably estimated, iii the position with regard to availability of insurance cover: and iv the adequacy and transparency of the disclosures in note 21.
PwC provided confirmation that managements assumptions were reasonable.
With regard to other provisions other than inventory see below, we examined the key movements between the opening andclosing provision balances and challenged management on the commercial drivers which caused them.
We reviewed the provisions acquired as part of the ESCO acquisitionand received accompanying explanations of the accountingtreatment adopted.
Pensions The valuation of We challenged management on the key assumptions The Committee was pension liabilities can underpinningthe valuation, taking assurance from the fact that satisfiedwith the see note 23 of the be materially affected external advice had been taken by the Company, incorporating assumptions and related financial by the assumptions theESCO pension liabilities into the process, and that PwC had pension disclosures.
statements utilised by benchmarked these assumptions to their own internal ranges and management on areas consider them appropriate.
such as discount and inflation rates.
Tax charge and The tax position is The Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Chief Based on the work we have provisioning complex, with a Financial Officer every six months, which covers the following key undertaken, we are number of areas: satisfiedthat the position see notes 7 and international presented in these financial i status of ongoing enquiries and tax audits with local tax 22of the financial jurisdictions requiring statements, including the authorities: statements managements disclosures, is appropriate.
judgement with ii the Groups effective tax rate for the current year: and regards to effective iii the level of provisioning for known and potential liabilities, tax rates, tax including significant movements on the prior period.
compliance and tax In addition, the Committee takes comfort from the annual provisioning.
presentation to the main Board on tax strategy and risk, given by theGroup Head of Tax, and the work done by, and conclusions of, PwC in this area.
Inventory Management applies Given the significant investment in inventory, and being cognisant Based on the information valuation estimates on ofthe impact of commodity cycles, this remains a judgement for provided, the Committee inventoryvaluation specific consideration.
Reporting has been received from concluded that see note 16 of the andprovisioning.
management on the business drivers behind movements in both managementaction had financial gross inventory and the related slow-moving and obsolete provision.
beeneffective and that the statements Specific consideration was given to a review of the accuracy of level of provisioning inventory provisioning.
Finally, specific consideration was given to the provision recognisedin respect of the exceptional legacy product warranty issue.
Reporting has been received from management on the basisof provision.
The Weir Group PLC 94 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report continued Recurring agenda items Area of focus Issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Fair, balanced and The Board is required The Committee received a report from management summarising the The successful completion understandable to state that the detailed approach that had been taken to ensure that the Groups ofthis work has been Groups external external reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
Thiscovered, reported to the Board.
reporting is fair, but was not limited to, the following: balanced and i involvement of a cross section of management across the understandable.
organisation during the preparation of the external reporting, The Audit Committee including the Group Executive, Divisional Finance Directors, is requested by the Group Communications, Group Finance including Group Tax and Board to provide Group Treasury and Company Secretariat: advice to support the ii input and advice from appropriate external advisers, including the assertion.
Companys brokers and public relations agency: iii use of available disclosure checklists for both corporate governance and financial statement reporting: iv regular research to identify emerging practice and guidance from relevant regulatory bodies: v regular weekly meetings from December to February inclusive involving the key contributors to the document, during which specific consideration was given to the fair, balanced and understandable assertion: and vi use of three cold readers: two employees independent of the preparation process one a member of the senior management group and an external, independent proof reader.
Viability The Committees role, We fulfilled our responsibilities in this area through the review The successful completion Statement as delegated by the anddiscussion of reporting received from management, which ofthis work has been Board, is to review the covered the following areas: reported to the Board.
The underlying processes Groups viability statement i overview of the construct of the financial model and base case and key assumptions isreported on page 81. data underpinning the sensitivity and stress-test underpinning the scenarios: Viability Statement andreport to the ii results of financial modelling which reflected the Board accordingly.
crystallisation of those principal risks identified by the Board ashaving the greatest potential impact on the Groups viability, both individually and when taken together in a severe but plausible stress-test scenario: iii extent of mitigating actions included in the financial modelling, relative to the population of such actions that had beenidentified as within the control of management and the Board: and iv banking covenant calculations and assessment of facility headroom in each of the downside and stress-test scenarios.
