The Weir Group PLC 84 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholders Similarly, should a matter under discussion relate I am pleased to introduce our Nomination to any of the other Committee members, they Committee report for 2018 which explains would excuse themselves from the meeting.
the Committees focus and activities during Main activities during 2018 the year, and also highlights the Committees Ensured Board and Senior Management key priorities for 2019.
I continue to ensure succession planning aligned with our strategy that all relevant provisions of the UK Corporate and culture.
Undertook Board skills assessment and Role of the Nomination Committee gap analysis.
The Nomination Committee has responsibility Reviewed Director election and re-election at Charles Berry for considering the size, structure and the forthcoming AGM:.
Chairman composition of the Board: for reviewing Director Recommended Board and Committee and Senior Management succession plans, changes: appointment of Non-Executive Committee membership in 2018 retirements and appointments of additional Directors Cal Collins and Engelbert Haan, or replacement Directors and for making appointment of Mary Jo Jacobi as Employee Charles Berry Chairman appropriate recommendations of candidates Engagement Non-Executive Director, Mary Jo Jacobi to the Board so as to maintain an appropriate appointment of Sir Jim McDonald as a Rick Menell balance of skills, experience and diversity on member of the Nomination Committee, Rick the Board.
Menell as member of the Audit Committee, Sir Jim McDonald Stephen Young as a member of the Membership and attendance John Mogford Remuneration Committee and as Chairman of The Nomination Committee is entirely made up the Audit Committee and Graham Vanhegan Graham Vanhegan Secretary of independent Non-Executive Directors and as Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary.
Areas of focus for 2019 Other attendees by invitation The members of the Committee are set Further developing our approach to Inclusion out in the table to the left.
Senior members Jon Stanton, Chief Executive Officer and Diversity across the wider Group at of management and advisors are invited to all levels.
The Company Enhancing the leadership and talent Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
There were six Committee meetings held during Refining the remit of the Nomination the year of which three were unscheduled.
Committee in light of the new UK Corporate Details of the attendance of the members of the Governance Code.
Committee for the year ended 31 December Continuing to focus on monitoring and 2018 are contained in the table below.
I do not assessing our culture.
Chair Committee meetings when the matters under consideration relate to me or my position.
Nomination Committee meeting attendance Percentage of Name Committee meetings 2018 meetings attended Member since 23 Jan 26 Feb 26 Apr 19 Jun 22 Oct 17 Dec Total Charles Berry Chair 1 January 2014 100% Mary Jo Jacobi 1 August 2017 100% Rick Menell 14 June 2012 100% Sir Jim McDonald 26 April 2018 100% 2 John Mogford 21 January 2014 100%.
Sir Jim McDonald joined the Nomination Committee on 26 April 2018.
John Mogford stepped down on 26 April 2018.
Read more Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website at www.
weir Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 85 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Board Appointment and Tenure Length of tenure at 31 December 2018 Date of next election or Date of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 re-election Director year years years years years years years years years years appointment Charles Berry 1 March 2013 30 April 2019 1 Jon Stanton 19 April 2010 30 April 2019 John Heasley 3 October 2016 30 April 2019 Rick Menell 1 April 2009 30 April 2019 Clare Chapman 1 August 2017 30 April 2019 2 Cal Collins 12 July 2018 30 April 2019 Mary Jo Jacobi 1 January 2014 30 April 2019 Barbara Jeremiah 1 August 2017 30 April 2019 Sir Jim McDonald 1 January 2015 30 April 2019 Stephen Young 1 January 2018 30 April 2019 3 John Mogford 1 June 2008 4 Alan Ferguson 13 December 2011 Notes 1.
J on Stanton was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director on 19 April 2010.
His tenure as Group Finance Director was 6 years, 5 months.
Cal Collins was appointed to the Board on 12 July 2018.
Alan Ferguson stepped down on 26 April 2018.
Board Skills and Attributes Banking and Director Independence finance Engineering Governance International Leadership Mining Oil and gas Power Charles Berry Jon Stanton John Heasley Rick Menell Clare Chapman 1 Cal Collins Mary Jo Jacobi Barbara Jeremiah Sir Jim McDonald 2 Stephen Young Engelbert Haan 1.
Stephen Young was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
Engelbert Haan was appointed to the Board on 18 February 2019.
The Weir Group PLC 86 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee Report continued Succession Planning Appointment of Non-Executive Director on Board Effectiveness.
With the exception The Nomination Committee continues to give Engelbert Haan of Cal Collins, the Nomination Committee 1 full consideration to succession planning for the External search advisers JCA Group were considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors Board and Senior Management, with a pro-active engaged in the recruitment process and assisted are independent.
approach taking into account the challenges the Nomination Committee in its search for The review enabled the Committee to confirm and opportunities facing the Company, and suitable candidates.
The Committee was its support for the election of Cal Collins and what skills and expertise are therefore needed informed of possible candidates, put forward Engelbert Haan and for the re-election of all on the Board.
The Board believes that effective by JCA Group.
Selected candidates met with others members of the Board at the Companys succession planning improves performance for myself, the Chief Executive Officer and a Nonforthcoming 2019 AGM.
Feedback was provided to the biographies can be found on pages 68 and 69 and Committee and it was agreed that the preferred Board composition and skills in the Notice of Meeting.
candidates should proceed to the next stage.
The Nomination Committee considers that the Processes are in place to identify any business The preferred candidates then met with the Board consists of individuals with the right balance relationships held by Non-Executive Directors or remaining Directors.
Following the satisfactory of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge to additional directorships or significant links with conclusion of the process, the Nomination provide strong and effective leadership of the other companies or bodies which may be of Committee recommended to the Board that Group.
During the year the Board consisted of the relevance in determining their independence.
Engelbert Haan be appointed to the Board on Chairman, up to nine Non-Executive Directors 18 February 2019.
Inclusion and Diversity and two Executive Directors, who together 1.
J CA Group have no other connection with the Company and The Board acknowledges the benefits bring a diverse and complementary range of have signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on matters that a diverse pool of talent can bring to a such as diversity for executive search firms.
During 2018, JCA backgrounds, personal attributes and experience.
Group provided no other services to the Company.
Among other things, a diverse board The Board skills and experience matrix, based encompasses diversity of experience, social Appointment of Cal Collins primarily on professional background and background, education and training, life skills, Cal Collins, former Chairman and CEO of ESCO executive roles held, is detailed on page 85. personal attributes, as well as differences in age, Corporation, joined the Board in July 2018 Committee membership is periodically refreshed nationality, race and gender.
following the completion of the ESCO acquisition.
and the Nomination Committee recommended In recommending this appointment to the The Committee takes an active role in meeting some changes to the composition of the Board Board, the Nomination Committee recognised inclusion and diversity objectives.
We are Committees, as outlined above and in the that Cal could provide an important contribution committed to ensuring that a third of the Board, respective Committee reports.
through his experience of the mining sector and Group Executive members, and their direct The Board appointed Mary Jo Jacobi, Nonknowledge of ESCO.
We continue to work Executive Director, as Employee Engagement towards achieving this and the current levels are Tenure Director on 26 April 2018, to strengthen our 30%, 29% and 19% 2018: 27%, 29% and 20%.
The Committee reviews the tenure of individual existing employee engagement mechanisms.
I continue to be a member of the steering group Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis in You can read more about our approach to of the Hampton-Alexander Review.
the context of length of service, experience, employee engagement on pages 9 and 79. independence, contribution and skills.
This is Further information regarding Inclusion and Board appointments not only from a current strategy perspective but Diversity can be found on pages 9 and 59.
The Committee was responsible for leading also takes into account potential future strategic Committee effectiveness the process in recruiting a new Non-Executive needs.
As part of the annual tenure review, the The Committees effectiveness was reviewed Director in 2018.
Appointments to the Board Nomination Committee specifically reviewed during the year through an internal Board are subject to a formal, rigorous and transparent the tenure of Rick Menell, Senior Independent Effectiveness Review, facilitated by The Effective procedure.
Details of the recruitment process are Director, in light of his service, and subsequently Board LLP.
Their report was presented to the noted below.
recommended that it should be extended for Board in December 2018.
I am pleased to confirm a further year.
The Committee were satisfied The considerations to be taken into account in it concluded that the areas of responsibility of that Ricks tenure had not compromised his each appointment to the Board are stipulated the Nomination Committee continued to be independence in any way and he is and remains in the Terms of Reference of the Nomination performed well.
You will find more information on independent in character and judgement Committee.
Specifically, the Nomination the Board Effectiveness Review cycle, process notwithstanding the fact that he has served Committee must consider candidates on merit and findings on page 77. on the Board for more than nine years.
Ricks against objective criteria, and with due regard for continued service is in the best interests of the the benefits of diversity on the Board, including Company because his experience is of particular gender, in identifying and recommending importance at this time of recent change to the candidates.
The Nomination Committee composition of the Board.
recommends appointments to the Board based Charles Berry on the existing balance of skills, knowledge and Independence and re-election to the Board Chairman of the Nomination Committee experience on the Board, on the merits and During 2018, the Nomination Committee 27 February 2019 capabilities of the candidate and on the time they reviewed and considered the independence are able to devote to the role in order to promote of each Non-Executive Director in line with the the success of the Company.
UK Corporate Governance Code and Guidance
