The Weir Group PLC 68 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Board of Directors The right skills and experience to deliver our strategy Charles Berry Jon Stanton John Heasley Rick Menell Clare Chapman Cal Collins Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Tenure on Board: Tenure on Board: Tenure on Board: Tenure on Board: Tenure on Board: Tenure on Board: 5 years and 10 months CEO 2 years and 3 months 2 years and 3 months 9 years and 9 months 1 year and 5 months 6 months FD 6 years and 5 months Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Yes, since appointment in No No Yes, since appointment in Yes, since appointment in No March 2013 April 2009 August 2017 Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: A N R N R None None None Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Charles was an Executive Since becoming CEO in 2016, Prior to his appointment as Chief Rick was appointed Chief Clare is the former Group People Cal served as Chairman and Director of Scottish Power plc Jon has led the portfolio Financial Officer, John was the Executive of Anglovaal Mining in Director of BT Group plc and Chief Executive Officer of ESCO from 1999 to 2005 and Chief transformation and delivery Divisional Managing Director for 1996, then Executive Chairman Director General of Workforce Corporation, the worlds leading Executive of its UK operations of the We are Weir strategic Weir Flow Control.
In 2005, he was for the NHS and Social provider of ground engaging between 2000 and 2005. framework to create a long appointed President and Chief Care.
Clare was previously tools for surface mining and Prior to joining Weir in Prior to joining Scottish Power, term pathway to sustained Executive of TEAL Exploration a Non-Executive Director of infrastructure markets, from 2008, he held a number of he was Group Development performance improvement.
He was formerly TUI Travel plc and Chair of its 2012 to 2018. senior financial, commercial Director of Norwest Holst, Chairman of Avgold Ltd and Remuneration Committee.
Jon joined the Board as and operational roles, a subsidiary of Compagnie Bateman Engineering BV.
Finance Director in 2010. including positions at Clare was also Group HR Gnrale des Eaux, and held Before joining Weir, he  and Rick is a senior adviser to Director of Tesco plc from 1999 management positions within was a partner with Ernst & Scottish Power.
Credit Suisse and Chairman to 2006 and HR Vice President subsidiaries of Pilkington plc.
Young, one of the worlds of Credit Suisse Securities of PepsiCos west and central He is a chartered accountant He is a former Non-Executive largest professional services Johannesburg Pty Limited.
European operations from and a member of the Institute Director and Chairman of Eaga companies, where he led global 1994 to 1999. of Chartered Accountants He is a fellow of the Geological plc, Drax Group plc, Senior board-level relationships with of Scotland.
Society London, and of both plc and Thus Group plc, and a a number of FTSE-100 multithe Australasian and South former Non-Executive Director national companies.
African Institutes of Mining of Impax Environmental Markets Jon is a chartered accountant and Metallurgy.
PLC and Securities Trust of and a member of the Institute Scotland plc.
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Charles is Non-Executive None John is a Non-Executive Director Rick is a Non-Executive Clare is a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Chairman of Centrica plc and a of Royal Scottish National Director of Gold Fields Ltd Director and Remuneration Stimson Lumber Company.
member of the steering group of Orchestra Society Limited.
and Sibanye-Stillwater, both Committee Chair of both the Hampton-Alexander Review.
South African companies listed Kingfisher plc and Heidrick & on the Johannesburg Stock Struggles International, Inc. Exchange and the New York Clare is a commissioner on the Stock Exchange.
Board diversity by tenure Board diversity by gender 0-3 years 5 Male 7 Male 3 Female 3 Female 2 3-5 years 1 Male 1 Female 0 5-10 years 4 Male 3 Female 1 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 69 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Want to know more about our Board?
weir investors corporate-governance board Mary Jo Jacobi Barbara Jeremiah Sir Jim McDonald Stephen Young Graham Vanhegan The Board considers that Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Legal Officer and each Director standing for Company Secretary re-election at the AGM in 2019 continues to contribute a specialist skill set that is both valuable to the Company and complementary to the skills of the Board as a whole.
For further details please refer to the Notice of Annual Tenure on Board: Tenure on Board: Tenure on Board: Tenure on Board: Tenure on Board: General Meeting 2019 and the Nomination Committee 5 years 1 year and 5 months 4 years 1 year N A Report on pages 84 to 86.
Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Alan Ferguson and John Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Mogford stepped down as Non-Executive Directors on Yes, since appointment in Yes, since appointment in Yes, since appointment in Yes, since appointment in N A 26 April 2018.
January 2014 August 2017 January 2015 January 2018 Christopher Morgan Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: stepped down as Company Secretary on1 May 2018.
N R A R A N R S A Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Mary Jo advises companies Barbara previously spent over Jim is Principal and Vice Stephen was Chief Executive of Graham joined Weir as Chief on international affairs and 30 years in a number of roles Chancellor of the University Meggitt PLC between 2013 and Legal Officer and Company reputation management.
with Alcoa Inc. now demerged of Strathclyde and has held 2017, having previously served as Secretary in 2018 from into Alcoa and Arconic Inc., the the Rolls-Royce Chair in Finance Director for a period of international exploration She was formerly a senior global aluminium producer.
Electrical Power Systems since nine years from 2004. and production company executive of BP America, Royal Her roles in Alcoa included 1993.
He is also Chairman ConocoPhillips where his Dutch Shell, Lehman Brothers, Before joining Meggitt, Stephen Executive Vice President, of the Institute for Energy roles included Deputy HSBC Holdings and Drexel held senior positions with Corporate Development and and Environment.
General Counsel and most Burnham Lambert and a NonFord Motor Company, Mars Chairmans Counsel.
recently, Vice President of Executive Director of Tate & He co-chairs the Scottish Incorporated, Grand Metropolitan Business Development.
Barbara also previously served Energy Advisory Board and is a now Diageo plc, Thorn EMI plc, as the Chairwoman of Boart fellow of the Royal Academy of the Automobile Association and A graduate of the University Mary Jo was Special Assistant Longyear Limited.
Engineering, the Royal Society Thistle Hotels plc.
of Glasgow, Graham is a to President Ronald Reagan, of Edinburgh, the Institution of solicitor qualified to practice in Assistant US Commerce Barbara is a qualified lawyer.
Engineering and Technology, both Scotland and England and Secretary for President George the Institute of Physics, and the is an attorney-at-law before H W Bush, a British Civil Service Energy Institute.
the State Bar of New York, Commissioner, and a member USA.
During his 24-year career of the Advisory Committee on with ConocoPhillips he held Business Appointments from a number of senior positions 2010 to 2017. for the company in Asia and North America.
Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Key external appointments: Mary Jo is a Non-Executive Barbara is currently the Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director, None Director of Mulvaney Capital Remuneration Committee Scottish Power Limited, Audit Committee Chairman Management Limited and Chair of Aggreko plc and a Non-Executive Director of UK and member of Risk and on the Board of Directors Non-Executive Director of Offshore Renewable Energy Remuneration committees of the Foundation to Russel Metals Catapult Board, Non-Executive of Derwent London plc.
Inc and Allegheny Director of National Physical NonExecutive Director of Technologies Incorporated.
She is a senior adviser to Boston Consulting Group, a Faculty President of the Conference of Advisor to GLG Institute and European Schools for Advanced serves on the International Engineering Education and Advisory Board of Spains IE Research CESAER.
Committee membership key Chair Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive nationality A Audit Committee Executive 2 British 4 member Non-Executive 8 American 2 Nomination N Committee member British American 1 South African American 1 R Remuneration Committee member Secretary to the S Committees The Weir Group PLC 70 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Group Executive The right skills and experience to deliver our strategy Paul Coppinger Geetha Dabir Ricardo Garib Rosemary McGinness Jon Owens David Paradis President of Weir Oil & Gas Chief Technology Officer President of Weir Minerals Chief People Officer President of ESCO Division President of Weir Flow Control Tenure: Tenure: Tenure: Tenure: Tenure: Tenure: 4 years 1 year and 10 months 3 years 1 year and 5 months 6 months 1 year and 11 months Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Paul is the President of the Oil Geetha became Weirs first Ricardo joined the Group Rosemary joined Weir as Chief Jon Owens joined the Group David was appointed President & Gas Division, based in Fort Chief Technology Officer in Executive in January 2016 and is People Officer in 2017.
Executive in July 2018 on of the Flow Control Division in Worth, Texas, USA.
completion of the acquisition January 2017.
Rosemary was Group HR this position since January 2015. of ESCO Corporation and Geetha is an electrical and Ricardo joined Baker Hughes Director of William Grant Prior to this he held the position is President of Weirs Paul joined Weir in 2011 software engineer who has in 1980 and became the & Sons, the international of President of Pressure ESCO Division.
most recently been Vice Managing Director of Weir premium spirits group, for Pumping.
Before joining Weir, Prior to joining Weir, Paul was President and General Manager Chile following the purchase of 12 years.
Having started her Jon joined ESCO in 1986 David spent 22 years in the the President of the Energy of Internet of Things IoT Baker Hughes Minerals division career in line management and during his career with flow control industry including Group for 10 years at Circor Applications at Intel Corporation, in 1994 by the Weir Group.
with Forte Hotels, Rosemary the company held a number 14 years with Tyco Flow International, Inc. a diversified having previously worked for In 2001 he was promoted to has held a range of positions of senior operational and Control.
He holds a Bachelor of manufacturer of valves and Cisco Systems for 13 years, Regional Managing Director of covering all aspects of Human management roles including Science degree in Mechanical related products.
He has been latterly helping lead their IoT Weir Minerals Latin America.
Resources across the globe, responsibility for the companys Engineering and a Masters of a director of the Petroleum efforts.
Business Insider named Ricardo is Vice President of the including being based in New European Division, Global Business Administration from Equipment & Services Geetha as one of the 25 most Mining Suppliers Association York in her role as Senior Vice Operations, Global Supply Texas A&M University, where Association since 2007 and powerful women in Engineering and an elected council President of HR for document Chain, Mining Business Unit and he currently serves on the has served as the Associations and Technology.
member of the Board of the management company Bowne Asia Pacific Region.
Jon became Masters of Science in Marketing Chairman.
Paul is presently Chilean Federation of Industry.
Chief Operating Officer of ESCO Advisory Board in the Mays a non-Executive Director He holds an MBA and is a Civil in 2014 and President in 2016. Business School.
In addition, he Rosemary is an Advisory Board and Nominating Corporate Mechanical Engineer.
is an Advisory Board member Member to the School for Jon is also a Non-Executive Governance Committee Chair of the Petroleum Equipment & CEOs and an Advisory Board Director of Columbia of Now Inc. Services Association.
Member of the University of Machine Inc.
He holds a Bachelor of Strathclyde Business School.
Science degree in Petroleum She is also a Fellow of the Engineering from Texas Chartered Institute of Personnel Tech University.
Jon Stanton, John Heasley and Graham Vanhegan are also members of the Group Executive Committee.
Their biographical information can be found on the previous pages.
Group Executive by tenure Group Executive by gender Group Executive by nationality 0-3 years 5 Male 7 American 4 Male 3 Female 2 British 3 Female 2 Chilean 1 3-5 years 2 Male 2 British American 1 Female 0 5-10 years 2 Male 2 Female 0 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 71 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Board statements Where to find Requirement Board statement further information Compliance with the UK Corporate The Company has fully complied with all the principles of the Code for the Corporate Governance Governance Code 2016 theCode year ended 31 December 2018, and from that date to the date of approval of Report pages this Annual Report.
67-116 Going concern basis The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate Directors Report resources to continue to operate for a period of at least 12months from the pages 114-115 date of approval of the financial statements.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities.
In addition, the Directors have considered the potential impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 29 to the Group financial statements on pages 173 to 181.
Each of these items has been considered in relation to the Groups banking facilities described in note 19 on pages 158 and 159.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the UK Corporate Governance Risk review: How Code 2016, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over We Manage Risk pages 47-55 a three-year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented on pages 51to55 of the Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2021.
Robust assessment of the principal risks During the year, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of Risk review: How facing the Group and annual review of risk management and internal control and conducted a robust assessment We Manage Risk pages 47-55 systems of risk management and of the principal risks affecting the Group in line with the Risk Appetite internal control Statement.
These activities meet the Boards responsibilities in connection with Risk Management and Internal Control set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, Statement taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide of Directors responsibilities the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups page 116 performance, business model and strategy.
Modern Slavery Statement As a Company, we understand our role in eradicating modern slavery.
A copy of this Following an extensive review of our existing policies and practices in light Statement can be found on our of the Modern Slavery Act, the Company prepares an annual Modern website: Slavery Statement and has developed a training programme.
