CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance E. 1.1 Dialogue with shareholders The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board believes that The Code indicates that the chairman should discuss the Company has been compliant with the Code governance and strategy with major shareholders.
The throughout the 52 weeks ended 29 July 2018, chairman has had many discussions with shareholders except as described below.
since the companys flotation in 1992, although corporate governance has rarely been raised.
1.1 Non-executive director independence majority of discussions with major shareholders now takes place among the CEO, finance director and Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene and Sir Richard shareholders.
The chairman is available for discussion Beckett have served more than 9 years on the board with major shareholders, when requested.
and so may not be considered independent under the Code.
The board considers that their performance as A full version of the Code is available on the official non-executive directors continues to be effective.
They website of the Financial Reporting Council: contribute significantly as directors through their frc.
uk individual skills, considerable knowledge and experience of the Company.
They also continue to Directors conflicts of interest demonstrate strong independence in the manner in The board expects the directors to declare any which they discharge their responsibilities as directors.
conflicts of interest and does not believe that any Consequently, the board has concluded that, material conflicts of interest exist.
despite their length of tenure, there is no association with management which could compromise The board of directors their independence.
The board comprises the following members: Tim Martin, chairman B.
4.2 Development John Hutson, chief executive officer Ben Whitley, finance director The chairman does not formally sit down with individual Su Cacioppo, personnel and legal director directors and identify specific training and development Elizabeth McMeikan, Senior Independent Director needs for them.
The chairman and executive directors Debra van Gene, non-executive director hold a series of weekly meetings, with head-office and Sir Richard Beckett, non-executive director pub managers, to try to identify areas of improvement Harry Morley, non-executive director for the business.
Minutes are taken of these meetings and action points identified for a range of participants.
The board considers each of Elizabeth McMeikan, In the opinion of the board, this process is effective Debra van Gene, Sir Richard Beckett and Harry Morley in identifying problems and solutions and assists in to be independent.
training and developing directors on an informal, yet effective, basis.
Biographies of all non-executive and executive directors are provided on page 43 and can be viewed B.
6.2 External board evaluation on the Companys website: jdwetherspoon.
com A requirement of corporate governance is a The chairman regularly meets the non-executive recommendation for a third party to evaluate the directors and evaluates the performance of the board, functioning of the board.
Delegation of a key task of the its committees and its individual directors.
chairman and of the directors of the board itself to a third party, often with little or no connection with the It is not advantageous, in a company like Wetherspoon, Companys business and with a very limited knowledge for there to be high barriers or exaggerated distinctions of the directors, may be a dangerous step for a board between the role of chairman and that of chief to take.
It is the function of the board itself to evaluate executive officer.
However, some general distinctions its own performance and the performance is most are outlined overleaf.
evident from the results of the underlying business.
For this reason, it is believed to be best for the Company to continue with its current system of self-evaluation.
54 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans responsibility Chief executive officers responsibility The chairman is responsible for the smooth running of The chief executive officer is responsible for the the board and ensuring that all directors are fully smooth daily running of the business informed of matters relevant to their roles Delegated responsibility of authority from the Company Developing and maintaining effective management to exchange contracts for new pubs and to sign all controls, planning and performance measurements contracts with suppliers Providing support, advice and feedback to the Maintaining and developing an effective chief executive officer organisational structure Supporting the Companys strategy and encouraging the External and internal communications, in conjunction chief executive officer with development of that strategy with the chairman, on any issues facing the Company Chairing general meetings, board meetings, Implementing and monitoring compliance operational meetings and agreeing on board agendas and with board policies ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of agenda items Management of the chief executive officers contract, Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board appraisal and remuneration, by way of making recommendations to the remuneration committee Providing support to executive directors and Recruiting and managing senior managers in the business senior managers of the Company Helping to provide the ethos and vision of the Company, Developing and maintaining effective risk-management after discussions and debates with employees of all levels, and regulatory controls customers, shareholders and including organisations such as CAMRA Helping to provide information on customers and Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders employees views by calling on pubs and investors Helping to make directors aware of shareholders concerns Chairing the management board responsible for implementing the Companys strategy Helping to ensure that a culture of openness and debate exists in the Company Ensuring compliance with the London Stock Exchange and legal and regulatory requirements, in consultation with the board and the Companys external advisers The board has several established committees as set out below.
The board met nine times during the year ending 29 July 2018: attendance of the directors and non-executives, where appropriate, is shown below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held in the year 9 4 3 1 N A N A N A Tim Martin 9 N A N A N A John Hutson 9 1 Su Cacioppo 9 4 N A Ben Whitley 9 4 N A 1 8 3 3 1 Elizabeth McMeikan Debra van Gene 8 4 3 1 Sir Richard Beckett 9 4 2 1 Harry Morley 9 4 3 1 9 4 N A Nigel Connor N A J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matters reserved for the board The committees primary role is to assist the board in the provision of effective governance over the The following matters are reserved for the board: Companys financial reporting, risk management and internal control and, in particular, it performs the Board and management following activities: Structure and senior management responsibilities Assumes direct responsibility for the appointment, Nomination of directors Appointment and removal of compensation, resignation and dismissal of the chairman and company secretary external auditors, including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness Strategic matters Reviews the independence of the external auditors, Strategic, financing or adoption of including consideration of the level of non-audit work new business plans, in respect of any carried out by them material aspect of the Company Reviews the scope and nature of the work Business control to be performed by the external auditors, Agreement of code of ethics and before audit commences business practice Reviews the half-year and annual Internal audit financial statements Authority limits for heads of department Ensures compliance with accounting standards and monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Operating budgets Approval of a budget for investments formal announcements relating to the financial and capital projects performance of the Company and supports the board in Changes in major supply contracts its responsibility to ensure that the annual financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable Finance Reviews the internal audit plan, which is updated to Raising new capital and confirmation reflect the changing needs of the business and the of major facilities concerns of management and the audit committee The entry into finance leases Specific risk-management policies, including Reviews and raises questions on all internal audit insurance, hedging and borrowing limits reports and requests management to adjust the Final approval of annual and interim accounts prioritisation of mitigating actions, as needed.
Areas and accounting policies reviewed this year included processes supporting the Appointment of external auditors operation of the hotels and new pub openings, asset management, payroll processes, accounts payable, Legal matters accommodation maintenance and death-in-service Consideration of regular reports on material issues relating to any litigation arrangements affecting the Company Reviews, with the support of specialists as required, Institution of legal proceedings, controls over access to the IT systems used around the where costs exceed certain values business and agrees with management on the timing of any mitigating actions to be carried out Secretarial Reviews and monitors procedures in relation to the Call of all shareholders meetings Delegation of board powers Companys whistle-blowing policy Disclosure of directors interests Reviews and questions the effectiveness of all risk-management and internal control systems General Reviews the Companys statement on internal Board framework of executive control systems, before endorsement by the board remuneration and costs Considers the overall impact on the business of the Any other matters not within the terms of matters arisen from the various reviews described reference of any committee of the board Any other matter as determined from above and any other matters which the auditors, time to time by the board internal or external, may bring to the attention of the committee Board committees Ensures that all matters, where appropriate, are raised and brought to the attention of the board Audit committee The committee is chaired by Harry Morley and Significant financial reporting items comprises, Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene and The accounting policies of the Company and the Sir Richard Beckett.
estimates and judgements made by management are assessed by the committee for their suitability.
The Representatives of the Companys external auditors, following areas are those considered to be the most Grant Thornton UK LLP, and the Companys internal significant by the committee: audit director, finance director and personnel and legal director are invited to attend each audit committee The provision for the impairment of fixed assets and meeting.
the onerous leases several judgements are used in making this calculation, primarily on expected future sales and profits.
The committee received reports and 56 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CORPORATE GOVERNANCE questioned management on the calculations made and The terms of reference of the audit committee are the assumptions used available on the Companys website.
Significant one-off items of expense or income are reported as exceptional on the face of the income Remuneration committee statement.
All exceptional items are reviewed by the The committee is chaired by Debra van Gene and committee comprises Elizabeth McMeikan, Sir Richard Beckett The committee reviewed and raised questions and Harry Morley.
The directors report on on the calculations made by the Company in relation remuneration is set out on pages 46 to 53. to the effectiveness and hedge accounting for interest-rate swaps The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available on the Companys website.
The committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable and that appropriate Nomination committee disclosures have been included in the accounts.
The committee is chaired by Sir Richard Beckett and comprises Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene and Non-audit services Harry Morley.
The committee meets at least annually During the year, the Company made use of specialist and considers, among other matters, board teams from Grant Thornton UK LLP, relating to appointments and the re-election of directors.
The fees paid to Grant No director is involved in any decision about his or her Thornton UK LLP for non-audit services were 37,500 own reappointment.
In carrying out these activities, 2017: Nil.
The use of Grant Thornton UK LLP for the non-executive directors follow the guidelines of the non-audit work is monitored regularly, to achieve the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators necessary independence and objectivity of the ICSA and comply with the Code.
In addition, the chair of the audit committee is consulted before awarding to the external auditors The terms of reference of the nomination committee any non-audit services in excess of 20,000. are available on the Companys website.
Where the auditors provide non-audit services, their objectivity and independence are safeguarded Employment policies by the use of different teams.
See note 2 on page 13, Staff are encouraged to make a commitment to the for a breakdown of auditors remuneration for audit Companys success and to progress to more senior and non-audit services.
External auditors In selecting, training and promoting staff, the Company The audit committee is responsible for making has to take account of the physically demanding nature recommendations to appoint, reappoint or remove of much of its work.
The Company is committed to external auditors.
Following a review by the audit equality of opportunity and to the elimination of committee, the board agreed, in September 2017, discrimination in employment.
to recommend to shareholders, at the annual general meeting, the appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP as The Company aims to create and maintain a working external auditors for a period of one year, following the environment, terms and conditions of employment and external audit tender during the last financial year.
personnel and management practices which ensure that no individual receives less favourable treatment Audit-tendering and rotation on the grounds of his or her race, religion or belief, The audit committee keeps under review the nationality, ethnic origin, age, disability, gender requirements on audit-tendering and rotation from including gender reassignment, sexual orientation, the European Union and the Competition and Markets part-time status or marital status.
The Company will be required to change its audit firm for the year ending 25 July 2038, at the Employees who become disabled will be retained, where possible, and retrained, where necessary.
Effectiveness of external auditors The Company has established a range of policies, The audit committee assesses the ongoing covering issues such as diversity, employees wellbeing and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring that effectiveness of the external auditors and audit all employees are treated fairly and consistently.
process, on the basis of meetings and internal reviews with finance and other senior executives.
Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well informed about the Companys progress, through In reviewing the independence of the external auditors, the use of regular newsletters, the Companys intranet the audit committee considers several factors.
These and staff liaison discussion, at which employees include the standing, experience and tenure of the external auditors, the nature and level of services views are discussed and taken into account.
provided and confirmation from the external auditors All pub staff participate in bonus schemes related that they have complied with relevant UK to sales, profits, stocks and service standards.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Relations with shareholders absolute, assurance against material misstatement or The board takes measures to ensure that all board loss.
Ongoing reviews, assessments and management members are kept aware of both the views of major of significant risks took place throughout the year under shareholders and changes in the major shareholdings review and up to the date of the approval of the annual of the Company.
Efforts made to accomplish effective report and accord with the Turnbull Guidance communication include: Guidance on Internal Control.
Annual general meeting, considered to be The Company has an internal audit function an important forum for shareholders to raise which is discharged as follows: questions with the board Regular feedback from the Companys stockbrokers Regular audits of the Companys stock Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated Unannounced visits to pub sites to shareholders Monitoring systems which control Any significant changes in shareholder movement the Companys cash being notified to the board by the company secretary, Health & safety visits, ensuring compliance when necessary with Company procedures The company secretary maintaining procedures and Reviewing and assessing the impact of agreements for all announcements to the Stock Market legislative and regulatory change A programme of regular meetings between investors Risk-management process, identifying key risks and directors of the Company facing the business Risk management The Company has key controls, as follows: The board is responsible for the Companys risk-management process.
Authority limits and controls over cash-handling, purchasing commitments and capital expenditure The internal audit department, in conjunction with A budgeting process, with a detailed 12-month feedback from senior management of the business operating plan and a mid-term financial plan, functions, produces a risk register annually.
both approved by the board Business results reported weekly, with a report The identified risks are assessed, based on the compared with budget and the previous year likelihood of a risk occurring and the potential impact Forecasts prepared regularly throughout the year, to the business, should the risk materialise.
for review by the board Complex treasury instruments are not used.
The The audit director determines and reviews the riskCompany, from time to time, as stated in our report and assessment process and will communicate the accounts, enters into swap arrangements which fix timetable annually.
interest rates at certain levels for a number of years and enters into supply arrangements with fixed prices The risk register is presented to the audit committee for electricity and gas, for example, which run for and management board annually, with a schedule of between one and three years audit work agreed on, on a rolling basis.
The purpose An annual review of the amount of external of this work is to review, on behalf of the Company and insurance which it obtains, bearing in mind the the board, those key risks and the systems of control availability of such cover, its costs and the likelihood of necessary to manage such risks.
the risks involved Regular evaluation of processes and controls, Where recommendations are made for changes in in relation to the Companys financial systems or processes to reduce risk, internal audit will reporting requirements.
follow up regularly to ensure that the recommendations are implemented.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
A summary of the financial risks and treasury policies can be found on page 37, together with other risks and uncertainties.
Approved by order of the board Internal control During the year, the Company provided an internal audit and risk-management function.
The creation of Nigel Connor a system of internal control and risk mitigation is a key Company Secretary part of the Companys operations and culture.
The 13 September 2018 board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The function can only manage, rather than entirely eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable, and not 58 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
