Corporate governance C orporate governance report The information that is required by Disclosure Guidance and Introduction from the Chairman Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys The Board of the Company is committed to achieving Corporate governance statement is included in this Corporate the highest standards of corporate governance.
governance report, in the Directors remuneration report on pages AsChairman, my role is to run the Board to ensure 40 to 59 and in the Directors report on pages 60 to 62. that the Company operates effectively and ensure Board of Directors thatthe Board has the right balance of skills, As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the Chairman, knowledge, independence and experience to assess, two executive directors and three independent non-executive manage and mitigate risks.
Short biographies of each of these directors, which This report, which forms part of the Directors report, provides illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 39. details of how the Company has applied the principles of, There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the and complied with, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Company: Henry Staunton Chairman being responsible for the Code.
A copy of the Code is available publicly from running the Board and Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive www.
being responsible for implementing strategy, leadership of the Company and managing it within the authorities delegated by During the year the Board was kept up to date on the the Board.
Drummond Hall is the Senior Independent Director.
developments and changes to the corporate governance The Board structure ensures that no individual or group landscape and the Code.
In July 2018, the FRC published the dominates the decision-making process.
new Code which will apply to the Companys financial year ending August 2020.
The new Code will be an area of focus for All the directors, whose biographies are on page 39, served the Board and the relevant Committees over the next year.
during the financial year ended 31 August 2018 and up to the date of this report.
As a Company, we have a long-standing commitment to high standards of corporate responsibility, which includes considering All of the non-executive directors who served during the year the interests of a broad stakeholder group in making business and up to the date of this report are considered by the Board decisions.
The Board remains focused on all our stakeholders, to be independent.
Drummond Hall was appointed as a nonincluding our employees, customers, shareholders and the executive director in September 2008.
He was appointed as the communities we are part of.
You can read about our engagement Chair of the Remuneration Committee in July 2009 and became with shareholders on page 38 and our commitments to customers, the Senior Independent Director in September 2013.
He began employees and community matters on pages 25 to 29. his tenth year as a director of the Company in September 2017.
In light of the provisions of the Code, the Board has considered Drummonds role and has concluded that Drummond Hall demonstrates independence and continues to give effective counsel.
Drummond Hall has stood for annual re-election since 2011 and will be standing again at the AGM in January 2019.
He will step down as Chair of the Remuneration Committee at The Board of the Company is the 2019 AGM but will remain as a member of the Committee.
Drummond Hall will not stand for re-election as a non-executive committed to achieving the director at the 2020 AGM.
I would like to thank Drummond highest standards of corporate for his valuable contributions and strong commitment to his continuing role as Senior Independent Director.
Following Drummond Halls stepping down as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Annemarie Durbin will be appointed Henry Staunton as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman Further information on the Board evaluation process can be found on pages 31 and 32 of this report.
Attendance at Board meetings The Board met 11 times during the year.
It is expected that all directors attend Board meetings, Committee meetings and the Annual General Meeting AGM unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The minimum time commitment expected from the non-executive directors is one day per month attendance at meetings, together with attendance at the AGM, Board away days and site visits, plus adequate preparation time.
Where directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Following the meeting, the Chairman briefs any director not present on the discussions and any decisions taken at the meeting.
30 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The following table shows the number of Board meetings held Group, including those risks relating to social, environmental during the year ended 31 August 2018 and the attendance record and ethical matters.
The Board confirms that the processes of individual directors.
have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this report and that they accord with the FRC Guidance on Number of meetings Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Board membership attended Business Reporting the Risk Management and Internal Control Henry Staunton 11 of 11 Guidance.
The processes are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Suzanne Baxter 11 of 11 The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group can be Stephen Clarke 11 of 11 found in the Strategic report on pages 20 to 24.
Annemarie Durbin 11 of 11 Further information on internal controls and risk management Drummond Hall 11 of 11 can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 33 to 36.
Robert Moorhead 11 of 11 All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional The Board has met three times since 31 August 2018 and all the advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their directors attended the meetings.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, Matters reserved for the Board with Board and Committee papers normally being sent out The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule a week before meetings take place.
New directors receive of matters reserved for its decision, with its key focus being induction training on joining the Board, which is tailored to meet on creating long-term sustainable shareholder value.
their needs to learn about the business, its markets and risks The significant matters reserved for its decision include: the and includes store visits and meetings with employees across overall management of the Company: approval of the business the businesses and with external advisers.
The need for director model and strategic plans including acquisitions and disposals: training is regularly assessed by the Board.
approval of the Companys commercial strategy and operating Board evaluation and capital expenditure budgets: approval of the Annual report The performance of the Board, its Committees and its individual and financial statements, material agreements and nondirectors is a fundamental component of the Companys recurring projects: treasury and dividend policy: control, audit success.
The Board regularly reviews its own performance and risk management: executive remuneration: and corporate and, following the externally facilitated evaluation carried out social responsibility.
in June 2017, a formal internally facilitated evaluation was The Board has a forward timetable to ensure that it allocates carried out in July 2018.
The evaluation was co-ordinated and sufficient time to key areas of business.
The timetable is flexible directed by the Chairman with the support of the Company enough for items to be added to any agenda as necessary.
A questionnaire was prepared by the Chairman The Boards annual business includes Chief Executives reports, and the Company Secretary and formed the basis of in-depth including business reports: financial results: strategy and interviews with each director.
The main areas considered during strategy updates, including in-depth sessions on specific areas the evaluation were strategy, operations and risk: succession of the business and strategic initiatives: risk management: planning: Board composition: culture and Board Committees.
dividend policy: investor relations: health and safety: Board evaluation: governance and compliance: communications and The findings were presented to the Board in October 2018. the Annual report.
The results of the assessment were considered by the Board andconfirmed the strength of the management of the Company, Risk management a sound governance framework and practices compliant with the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system Code.
Additionally, the culture of the Board remains very good, of risk management and internal control including financial being open and frank, whilst also supportive and collaborative.
controls, controls in respect of the financial reporting process As a result of the review, the Board agreed an action plan that and operational and compliance controls and has conducted a will be implemented in the financial year ending 31 August 2019 detailed review of its effectiveness during the year to ensure that and will include continued focus on succession planning and management has implemented its policies on risk and control.
the overall composition of the Board, including developing more This review included receiving reports from management, structured plans for internal candidates: continuing to improve discussion, challenge, and assessment of the principal risks.
communications between members of the Board and employees No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from and other stakeholders: additional measures to ensure this review.
In addition, the Board also received presentations maximum benefit is derived from the strategy session held from management on higher risk areas, for example, cyber each year: and steps to improve the Boards procedures and risk, risks arising from the process of exiting the European effectiveness.
In addition to the Board and Committee evaluation Union and growing international expansion.
The Board has process, the Group Chief Executive reviews the performance established an organisational structure with clearly defined of the Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer CFO lines of responsibility which identify matters requiring approval COO and other senior executives.
The Chairman reviews the by the Board.
Steps continue to be taken to embed internal performance of the Group Chief Executive.
control and risk management further into the operations of the The Chairman also undertook a rigorous review with each of business and to deal with areas that require improvement which the non-executive directors to assess their effectiveness and come to the attention of management and the Board.
Such a commitment to the role.
The Board has also scrutinised the system is, however, designed to manage rather than eliminate factors relevant to the determination of the independence the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only of Drummond Hall given that he has been a director for ten provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material years.
The Board considers his continued membership of the misstatement or loss.
Board is in the best interests of the Company and, having given The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for careful consideration to the matter, the Board is satisfied that identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks faced by the Drummond Hall continues to demonstrate the qualities of WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 Corporate governance C orporate governance report continued independence in carrying out his role as a non-executive director Diversity policy and Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers that The Board values diversity in all its forms, both within its own he continues to be independent in character and judgement membership and at all levels of the Group, and are highly and that there are no relationships or circumstances which supportive of the initiatives the Company has in place to promote are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement.
The Board believes that Drummond Hall has stood for re-election annually and, on each diversity in its widest sense is a key component to the success of occasion, has been re-elected by shareholders.
The Board will the Company and during the year approved the Boards diversity continue to keep his independence under review.
The Board aims to ensure its membership, and that of year, the Chairman had regular meetings with the non-executive the wider Group, reflects diversity in its broadest sense so that directors, without the executive directors present, to discuss it has a combination of demographics, skills, experience, race, Board issues and how to maintain the best possible team.
age, gender, education and professional background thereby The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors providing a wide range of perspectives, insights and challenge commits sufficient time to the business of the Company and needed to support good decision-making.
The policy aims to contributes to its governance and operations.
The Senior ensure that the Board nominations appointments process is Independent Director met the other non-executive directors based on fairness, respect and inclusion, and that the search for to assess the Chairmans performance, taking into account candidates will be conducted with due regard to the benefits of the views of the executive directors, and they concluded that diversity.
It is the Companys aim to achieve a minimum of 30 per Henry Staunton continues to be an effective Chairman and cent of women at Board and senior levels.
Further information demonstrates his commitment to the role.
on diversity can be found in the Nominations Committee section on pages 37 to 38 and is set out in the Employees section of the Under the Companys Articles of Association, directors are Strategic report on pages 28 to 29. required to retire and submit themselves for re-election every three years and new directors appointed by the Board UK gender pay gap reporting offer themselves for election at the next AGM following their During the year the Board was kept up to date on the appointment.
However, in accordance with the Code, the Board Companys obligation to report gender pay gap data for UK legal has agreed that all directors will stand for re-election at the AGM entities on the UK Government website and on our website.
At the last AGM on 24 January Further information can be found in the Nominations Committee 2018, all the directors stood for re-election and were duly elected report on pages 37 to 38. with a range of 96.76 per cent to 99.36 per cent of votes cast by shareholders.
Biographies of all the directors are set out on Succession planning and culture page 39 of this Annual report and are also available for viewing During the year ahead, the Board will continue to focus on on the Companys website, www.
succession planning to ensure the readiness of internal candidates for all key roles across the business.
The Board The Companys Articles of Association give a power to the is committed to good governance, culture and leadership, Board to appoint directors and, where notice is given and signed recognising that these are key considerations for a strong by all the other directors, to remove a director from office.
sustainable business and that the tone comes from the top.
The Companys Articles of Association themselves may be Our business model on pages 4 and 5 outlines the importance amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
of having the right people and skills, and operating responsibly.
The interests of the directors and their immediate families in The Companys values, behaviours and culture will continue the share capital of the Company, along with details of directors to form an important part of the Boards discussions.
share awards, are contained in the Directors remuneration The Nominations Committee will continue to support the report on pages 40 to 59.
Board by ensuring that culture is built into recruitment and succession considerations.
At no time during the year did any of the directors have a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or The Board recognises the importance of being visible and any of its subsidiaries.
accessible to customers and employees.
The non-executive directors are encouraged to accompany management on site Board Committees visits to the High Street and Travel stores.
The Board believes The Board delegates specific responsibilities to the Board that site visits provide directors with valuable insights into the Committees, being the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration business, helping to deepen their knowledge and understanding Committees.
Details of the role and responsibilities of the Audit of the Company.
Committee can be found on pages 33 to 36, the Nominations Committee on pages 37 to 38 and the Remuneration Committee Fair, balanced and understandable on pages 40 to 59.
The role and responsibilities of each The Board confirms that it considers the 2018 Annual report and Committee are set out in formal terms of reference which are accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable available on the Companys website, www.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to In addition, following the implementation of the EU Market assess the Companys position and performance, business Abuse Regulation MAR in July 2016, the Board established model and strategy.
a Disclosure Committee which is responsible for ensuring Discussion of the Boards assessment of the Annual report and compliance with the Companys obligations under MAR.
accounts is described in the Audit Committee Report on page 35.
WH Smith PLC 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Board Committees Audit Committee The Committee met four times during the year.
All Committee Audit Committee report members are expected to attend meetings.
The following table Dear Shareholder shows the number of meetings held during the year ended As Chair of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to 31 August 2018 and the attendance record of individual directors.
present my report on the activities of the Audit Number of meetings Committee for the financial year ended 31 August Committee membership attended 2018.
Our principal objectives are to oversee and Suzanne Baxter 4 of 4 assist the Board in its responsibility to produce a set of Annemarie Durbin 4 of 4 Annual report and accounts which are fair, balanced Drummond Hall 4 of 4 and understandable and to provide effective financial Henry Staunton, Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead were governance in respect of the Groups financial results, invited to and attended all four meetings of the Audit Committee.
the performance of both the internal audit function The Audit Committee has met once since 31 August 2018 and all and the external Auditor, and the management of the the Committee members attended the meeting.
Groups systems of internal control, business risks and A summary of the activities undertaken by the Committee during related compliance activities.
the year is as follows: The other members of the Committee are Annemarie Durbin reviewing the effectiveness including focus on the Groups and Drummond Hall who are both independent non-executive growing International business of the Groups financial directors.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant reporting, internal control policies and procedures for the financial experience, as required by the Code and that the identification, assessment and reporting of risk, including Committee, as a whole, has competence relevant to the cyber security and tax: sector, in which the Company operates.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements Executive, the CFO COO, the Director of Audit and Risk, and trading statements: representatives of the Groups senior management team and assessing and recommending to the Board that the Annual of the external auditor attend meetings.
The Committee has report is fair, balanced and understandable: regular private meetings with the external and internal auditors considering the Companys viability statement and papers during the year.
from management, which considers the long-term viability of the Group: considering papers from management on the key financial reporting judgements, including the paper on the presentation and components of non-underlying items and the Companys approach to recognising supplier incomes: As Chair of the Audit Committee reviewing the Interim report and the Annual report and accounts, including compliance with the Code and statutory Iam pleased to present my report reporting requirements and recommending those documents for Board approval: on the activities of the Audit considering the Companys principal risks and uncertainties Committee for thefinancial year and reviewing the mitigating actions that management has taken to ensure that these risks are appropriately monitored ended 31August 2018. and controlled: considering the Companys systems and framework of Suzanne Baxter controls designed to detect and report fraud and moneyChair of the Audit Committee laundering: monitoring the role and effectiveness of Internal Audit: reviewing the Companys approach to cyber risk: receiving reports and presentations on the Companys expanding International businesses and working on measures to strengthen controls: receiving reports and presentations from the business risk committees: receiving and reviewing reports from the Internal Audit andRisk teams: holding private meetings with the external and internal auditors: WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Corporate governance C orporate governance report continued considering the potential impact of Brexit on the Company: Significant financial reporting issues agreeing the scope of  LLPs PwC In preparing the accounts, there are a number of areas annual audit plans, assessing the effectiveness of the external requiring the exercise by management of particular judgement.
audit process and considering the accounting, financial The Committees role is to assess whether the judgements control and audit issues reported by the auditors that flowed made by management are reasonable and appropriate.
In order from their work: to assist in this evaluation, the CFO COO presents an accounting reviewing auditor independence and approving the policy on paper to the Committee twice a year, setting out the key financial the engagement of PwC to supply non-audit services: reporting judgements, and other papers as required.
The main areas of judgement that have been considered by the Committee negotiating and agreeing the audit fee: in the preparation of the financial statements are as follows: undertaking a performance review of Internal Audit and external Auditor: Accounting for inventory The Committee received a paper from management on reviewing the Companys treasury policy: accounting for and valuation of inventory and considered the approval of the Group Tax Strategy and Public Statement: judgements made by management.
The Committee also receiving updates on the preparation, policies and procedures received a paper from the external Auditor regarding the for the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR : valuation of inventory, with specific consideration given to considering and approving the report on the Companys inventory provisioning, including provision for slow moving or payment practices: obsolete stock.
The Committee is satisfied that the process adopted by management for the valuation of inventory is assessing new accounting standards IFRS 9 Financial sufficiently robust to establish the value of inventory held Instruments, 15 Revenue Recognition and 16 Leases : and and is satisfied as to the appropriateness of the Companys reviewing the Committees terms of reference.
Long-term viability statement and Recognition of supplier income The Committee considered, and reviewed in detail, goingconcern managements paper which set out the nature and value The Committee reviewed the process and assessment of the of these arrangements and the policy for recognition in Companys prospects made by management, including: the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied with the review period and alignment with the Companys managements conclusion that the level of complexity and internal forecasts: judgement is low in relation to establishing the accounting entries and estimates, and the timing of recognition.
the assessment of the capacity of the Company to remain The Committee also considered the disclosure included by viable after consideration of future cash flows, borrowings management in the Annual report and accounts.
andmitigating factors: and the modelling of the financial impact of certain of the Pensions Companys principal risks materialising using severe but The Committee assessed the accounting treatment adopted plausible scenarios.
by management and the application of IAS 19 in relation to the WH Smith defined benefit pension scheme.
The Committee The long-term viability statement is set out in the Strategic considered the current guidance and requirements in respect report on pages 24 and 25. ofpensions accounting, reviewed the judgements made The Committee reviewed managements analysis supporting in respect of the assumptions used in the valuation of the the going concern basis of preparation including reviewing Companys obligations under the scheme and the recognition the Companys financial performance, budgets for 2018 19 offuture liabilities in respect of committed scheme contributions and cash flow projections.
As a result of the assessment, on the balance sheet.
the Committee reported to the Board that the going concern Impairment review of store assets basis ofpreparation remained appropriate.
The going concern The Committee received and considered a paper from statement is set out in the Directors report on page 62. management covering the judgements made by management in respect of the Groups store assets given that sales and cost pressures may adversely impact the recoverable value of assets used within the store portfolio.
The Committee noted that management had considered the trading results of each store for the year and noted that where a store is loss making and is not expected to return to profitability in the near future, an impairment charge is recognised over the assets that cannot be recycled within the store portfolio.
The Committee was satisfied that the approach adopted by management was sufficiently robust to identify when an impairment charge of store assets needs to be recognised.
WH Smith PLC 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Following its review, the Committee advised the Board that Property transactions and provisions the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, was The Committee considered the nature of property transactions considered to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it undertaken by the Company in the year and reviewed the provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess Companys obligations and provisions for the cost of onerous the Companys position and performance, business model property leases, including lease obligations in respect of and strategy.
Non-underlying items Risk management and internal controls The Committee considered the presentation of the financial The Committee monitors and regularly reviews the effectiveness statements and, in particular, the use of alternative performance of the Groups risk management processes and internal measures and the presentation of non-underlying items in financial and non-financial controls.
The key features of the risk accordance with the Group accounting policy.
This policy management process that were in place during the year are states that adjustments are only made to reported profit as follows: before tax where charges are not considered part of the normal operating costs of the business, are non-recurring each business conducts risk assessments based on identified and considered exceptional because of their size, nature or business objectives, which are reviewed and agreed annually incidence.
The Committee received detailed reports from by the executive management of each business.
Risks are management outlining the judgements applied in relation to considered in respect of strategy, reputation, operations, the non-underlying costs incurred during the year.
These costs financial and compliance and are evaluated in respect of their were attributable to the costs of a transaction that we chose potential impact and likelihood.
These risk assessments not to complete and the costs relating to the business review are updated and reviewed quarterly and are reported to ofthe High Street business.
This was an area of major focus the Committee: for the Committee which was cognisant of the need to ensure a Group risk assessment is also undertaken by the Internal that the disclosure of the non-underlying items was sufficient Audit team, which considers all areas of potential risk across for users of the accounts to understand the nature and reason all systems, functions and key business processes.
assessment, together with the business risk assessments, forms the basis for determining the Internal Audit Plan.
Each of the above areas of judgement has been identified Audit reports in relation to areas reviewed are discussed and as an area of focus and therefore the Committee has also agreed with the Committee: reviewed detailed reporting from the external Auditor on therelevant issues.
the Internal Audit team meets annually with all senior executives, to undertake a formal review and certification Fair, balanced and understandable process in assessing the effectiveness of the internal controls across the Group.
The results of this review are reported to assessment the Committee: At the request of the Board, the Committee has considered the Committee confirmed to the Board that it has reviewed whether, in its opinion, the 2018 Annual report and accounts, the effectiveness of the systems of internal control, including taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess management for the period of this report, in accordance the Companys position and performance, business model and with the Code and the Risk Management and Internal strategy.
The Committee was assisted in its review by a number Control Guidance: of processes, including the following: the Board is responsible for approving the annual budget the Annual report and accounts is drafted by senior and the three-year plan, for approving major acquisitions management with overall co-ordination by a member of and disposals and for determining the financial structure the Group Finance team to ensure consistency across the of the Company, including treasury and dividend policy.
relevant sections: Monthly results, variances from plan and forecasts are an internal verification process is undertaken to ensure reported to the Board: factual accuracy: the Committee assists the Board in the discharge of an independent review is undertaken by the Director of Audit its duties regarding the Groups financial statements, and Risk to assess whether the Annual report and accounts is accounting policies and the maintenance of proper internal fair, balanced and understandable using a set of pre-defined business, operational and financial controls.
The Committee indicators such as consistency with internally reported invites input and attendance from members of the senior information and investor communications : management team of the Group at its meetings to discuss the design and operation of key business and internal comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual report and controls and the assessment of risks that affect the Group.
accounts are undertaken by the executive directors and other The Committee provides a link between the Board and the senior management: external Auditor through regular meetings: an advanced draft is reviewed by the Board and the Companys Legal Director and, in relation to certain sections, by external legal advisers: and the final draft of the Annual report and accounts was reviewed by the Committee prior to consideration by the Board.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Corporate governance C orporate governance report continued the Internal Audit team advises and assists management The Committee has a formal policy on the Companys in the establishment and maintenance of adequate internal relationship with its external Auditor in respect of non-audit work to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are controls and reports to the Committee on the effectiveness of maintained.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Committee those controls: and was updated in 2017 following the introduction of the there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning FRC Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
The majority of non-audit and for monitoring and reporting the performance of the work undertaken by PwC in 2017 18 related to due diligence Companys business to the Board.
Monthly results are work in relation to a potential acquisition, the interim review, reported against budget and prior year, and forecasts for the non-audit and tax advice.
The Company decided to use PwC in current financial year are regularly revised in light of actual respect of the potential transaction after considering alternative performance.
These results and forecasts cover profits, cash approaches and taking into account their understanding of flows, capital expenditure and balance sheets: our business, their retail expertise and the tight timescales for routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and completing due diligence.
PwC used a specialist team which was risks, for review by senior executives, and annual reports are separate from the audit team for this work.
The Auditor may only prepared for the Board and Committee covering tax, treasury provide such services if such advice does not conflict with their policies, insurance and pensions: statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
As Chair of the a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by the Board, Audit Committee, my approval is required before the Company including objectives and targets to address the impact that our uses non-audit services as specifically set out in the policy, or if activities have on the environment, workplace, marketplace the fees exceed 25,000 per matter.
The Committee is satisfied and community.
More detailed information is available in our that the Company was compliant during the year with both the full CR report, available at www.
co. uk cr: and Code and the FRCs Ethical and Auditing Standards in respect of the scope and maximum level of permitted fees incurred for the Board is committed to maintaining high standards of non-audit services provided by PwC.
For the financial year ended health and safety in all its business activities.
These standards 31 August 2018 the non-audit fees paid to PwC were 567,800 are set out in the Companys Health and Safety Policy, which and the audit fees payable to PwC were 352,500. is regularly reviewed by the Board.
A copy of our Health and Safety Policy is available at www.
The Company has complied during the financial year under The Risk Management team works with the business to review, and up to the date of this report, with the provisions assess health and safety risks and introduce systems to of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market mitigate them.
All reportable accidents are investigated and Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes targets are set toreduce the level of incidence.
and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Director of Audit and Risk attends the meetings of the I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any Committee to discuss the above matters.
questions about the work of the Committee.
External auditor During the year the external Auditor reported to the Committee Suzanne Baxter on their independence from the Company.
The Committee Chair of the Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied that PwC has adequate policies 11 October 2018 and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
The Committee has recommended to the Board the re-appointment of the external Auditor for the 2019 financial year and the directors will be proposing the re-appointment of PwC at the 2019 AGM.
PwC were first appointed as auditor at the 2015 AGM, following a competitive tender process completed in 2014.
The Committee will continue to review the external Auditors appointment and the need to tender the audit in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
In line with our terms of reference, the Committee undertook a thorough assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and independence of the 2017 year end audit provided by PwC.
The Director of Audit and Risk prepared a questionnaire seeking the views and feedback of the Board, together with those of Group and divisional management, and it formed the basis of further discussion with respondents.
The findings of the survey were considered by the Committee.
WH Smith PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance Board Committees Nominations Committee The Committee met three times during the year.
The principal Nominations Committee report matters discussed at the meetings were succession planning for Dear Shareholder Board and senior executives, the search for a new non-executive As Chair of the Nominations Committee I am director, the appointment of a new Chair of the Remuneration Committee, career planning and identifying talent across the pleased to present my report on the activities of the businesses, approval of a diversity policy and reviewing the work Nominations Committee for the financial year ended 31 that has been undertaken in respect of the Companys gender August 2018.
The Committees principal responsibility pay gap reporting obligations.
is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with As part of the Companys succession plans, the Committee has the requisite skills, knowledge, independence and appointed external recruitment consultants, Lygon Group, to experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging assist in the process of identification of potential candidates to its responsibilities and ensure that appropriate join the Board.
I confirm that Lygon have no other relationship procedures are in place for the nomination, selection with the Company and have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct covering Board appointments established following the and succession of directors and senior executives.
The Committee comprises a majority of independent nonexecutive directors.
The other members of the Committee Following Drummond Halls decision to step down as Chair are Suzanne Baxter, Stephen Clarke, Annemarie Durbin and of the Remuneration Committee, the Committee also agreed Drummond Hall.
In the event of any matters arising concerning that Annemarie Durbin should be appointed as the Chair of my membership of the Board, I would absent myself from the the Remuneration Committee with effect from the AGM in meeting as required by the Code and Drummond Hall, the January 2019.
I confirm that Annemarie Durbin absented herself Senior Independent Director, would take the Chair.
from the meetings at which her appointment as Chair of the Remuneration Committee was discussed by the Committee.
All Committee members are expected to attend meetings.
The following table shows the number of meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2018 and the attendance record of individual directors.
As Chair of the Nominations Number of meetings Committee membership attended Committee I am pleased to Henry Staunton 3 of 3 presentmy report on the activities Suzanne Baxter 3 of 3 Stephen Clarke 3 of 3 of the Nominations Committee Annemarie Durbin 3 of 3 forthe financial yearended Drummond Hall 3 of 3 31August 2018.
Robert Moorhead was also invited to and attended one meeting of the Nominations Committee.
Henry Staunton The Nominations Committee has met twice since 31 August Chair of the Nominations Committee 2018 and all the Committee members attended both meetings.
The Committee keeps itself updated on key developments relevant to the Company, including on the subject of diversity.
Information on diversity, including gender, in respect of the Board and the Company is set out in the Employees section of the Strategic report on pages 28 and 29.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture free from discrimination in any form and is proud of its long history of being regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
During the year the Board became a member of The 30% Club, which aims to achieve a minimum of 30 per cent of women on FTSE 350 Boards and in senior management within FTSE 100 companies by 2020.
The organisation runs targeted initiatives and campaigns to improve gender diversity and accelerate the pace of change.
The Board is committed to strengthening the pipeline of women in senior roles across the business and continues to take steps to ensure there are no barriers to women succeeding at the highest level of the Company.
An action plan has been agreed to take further steps WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Corporate governance C orporate governance report continued to improve workplace diversity.
Actions include the appointment Relations with shareholders of a Diversity and Inclusion sponsor to champion diversity The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the within the senior management team, and the provision of Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is mentoring, as well as focused initiatives to better understand accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities the challenges faced by under-represented groups employed of the Group.
The Company recognises the importance within the Company.
of communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its During our Learning at Work Week programme, Women in strategy and performance are understood.
This is achieved Leadership has been a key theme, with talks from our most principally through the Annual report and accounts and the senior female executives, master classes and chances to AGM.
In addition, a range of corporate information, including network.
To ensure we attract more women at senior level, we all Company announcements and presentations, is available to continue to aim for gender balanced shortlists for internal and investors on the Companys website, www.
external recruitment at a senior executive level.
The Company Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders also works with Everywoman who provide a host of personal following the announcement of the Companys full year and development tools aimed at women and also provide our interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the employees with links to an external network of professional principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All women in other organisations.
Further information on diversity directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer is set out in the Employees section of the Strategic report on questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and The Committee will continue to focus on succession planning concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and talent management for key roles across the business, and CFO COO update the Board following meetings with major to ensure the Company develops a pipeline of high quality shareholders and analysts briefings are circulated to the internal candidates for senior management roles.
The Head of Investor Relations also carries out a regular undertaken to ensure succession arrangements are in place for programme of work and reports to the Board the views and Board members and key management.
information needs of institutional and major investors.
This The recent Board evaluation has again confirmed that is part of the regular contact that the Group maintains with the culture of the Board is excellent, being very open and its institutional shareholders.
When requested to do so, the collaborative.
The Board continues to have a broad mix of skills, Chairman and non-executive directors attend meetings with diversity, experience and talent, which enables the Board and the major shareholders.
Anti-corruption I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
The Company has continued to enhance its policies and procedures in order to meet the requirements of the Bribery Act 2010.
These policies and procedures include training for individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be Henry Staunton construed as contravening the Bribery Act.
The Groups Bribery Chair of the Nominations Committee Ethics Statement is included on the Companys website, 11 October 2018 www.
co. uk corporate responsibility our policies.
Compliance with the code Throughout the year ended 31 August 2018 and up to the date Remuneration Committee of this report the Company has been in compliance with the Information on the composition and activities of the provisions of the Code.
Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 59.
This report was approved by the Board on 11 October 2018.
Signed on behalf of the Board Approvals Committee The Approvals Committee facilitates the internal approvals process by approving matters as delegated by the Board.
The Henry Staunton Approvals Committee comprises the Chief Executive and the Chairman CFO COO.
11 October 2018 Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Companys obligations under MAR and the maintenance of disclosure controls and procedures.
The Disclosure Committee comprises all of the directors of theCompany and the Company Secretary.
WH Smith PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
