Governance Governance Nomination Committee report Composition of the Committee The Nomination Committee has All members of the Committee are non-executive directors.
This is the first overseen a year of change with further year that all non-executive directors have been members of the Committee.
work ahead in the next year.
The expansion of the Committee has further added to experience of the Committee in respect of all matters that it considers on behalf of the Board.
Role of the Committee The role of the Nomination Committee isto review the Board composition and to plan for its refreshment as applicable.
This is my first Nomination The Committee is also responsible for Committee report as Chairman of evaluating the directors on an annual the Committee and, on reflection, it basis and striving forabalance of skills, has been a very busy year for the knowledge, independence, experience and  to allow for Committee.
As stated in last years it to operate effectively.
Annual Report and Accounts, Responsibilities of the Committee Stephen Williams resigned as a The Committee has specific director of the Company following responsibilities on behalf of the Board the conclusion of the 2017 Annual and these are detailed below: General Meeting.
Following the to regularly review the structure, size, resignation of Sir Ian Cheshire on and composition of the Board to 21 September 2017, the Committee include the balance of skills, knowledge, nominated myself to be appointed independence, experience and diversity and to make recommendations to the as Senior Independent Director.
Board in respect of any changes: Adam Crozier It was announced in January 2018 to consider succession planning for Chairman, that following nine years service as the Board and to determine the skills non-executive director with four of Nomination Committee and experience required for future those years as Chairman of the board appointments: Company, Richard Baker was to resign as from the Board with effect to identify and nominate, for the Membership of the Nomination from 28 February 2018.
As part of this approval of the Board, candidates to Committee and meeting announcement and following a thorough fill board vacancies as and when they attendance process lead by Chris Kennedy as an arise: independent non-executive director, Meetings to evaluate the balance of skills, attended with support from Louise Smalley as knowledge, experience and diversity and eligible Group HR Director, the Company Name of director to attend required prior to making an announced that I would be appointed appointment to the Board and on the David Atkins 5 5 as Chairman with effect from 1 March basis of this evaluation to prepare a role 1 Richard Baker 2018.
Further details on the process 3 3 description outlining the capabilities resigned 28 February 2018 that the Committee followed for the required for a particular appointment: 2 appointment of the new Chairman is Sir Ian Cheshire 1 2 provided on page 71. to keep the leadership needs of the resigned 21 September 2017 Company under review, both for 1 Adam Crozier Chairman 1 1 As highlighted in the corporate executive and non-executive directors governance report on page 57, the Chris Kennedy 5 5 with a view to ensuring the continued Company is actively engaged in the ability of the Company to effectively Deanna Oppenheimer 5 5 recruitment of two new non-executive compete: Susan Taylor Martin 5 5 directors of the Board.
As part of this keep up to date and fully informed process, the Committee is also engaged Stephen Williams 2 2 about strategic issues and commercial in an ongoing search for a new Senior resigned 21 June 2017 changes affecting the Company and Independent Director.
We anticipate 1 Richard Baker and Adam Crozier were the market in which it operates: reporting on all changes to the Board as ineligible to attend the Nomination Committee part of next years Committee report.
meetings thatdiscussed Chairman and Senior to ensure that on appointment to the Independent Director succession.
Board, non-executive directors receive The Committee meets at least twice 2 Sir Ian Cheshire was unable to attend a a formal letter of appointment setting ayear and during this year, several Nomination Committee meeting due to a prior out the time commitment in respect of additional meetings were held to business commitment.
the role: support the search and appointment of the new Chairman.
Meetings are to annually review the time required attended by members of the Committee from non-executive directors and and, by invitation, the Chief Executive, to ensure that a performance the GroupFinance Director and the evaluation is undertaken to determine Group HRDirector.
if non-executive directors are spending sufficient time to fulfil their duties: Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 70 Governance The Chairmans succession Length of tenure of directors as at 1 March 2018 process led by Chris Kennedy David Atkins In January 2018, we announced that Richard Baker was to retire as Chairman Alison Brittain of the Company after nine years Nicholas Cadbury service.
The Nomination Committee led Adam Crozier by myself with the support of Louise Smalley, the Group HR Director, Chris Kennedy undertook a thorough process to Deanna Oppenheimer appoint a new Chairman and we were Louise Smalley delighted to announce in January 2018, that Adam Crozier, who was Senior Susan Taylor Martin Independent Director of the Company, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 was to be appointed as the Chairman.
We have outlined the process that we followed for the appointment of the for the appointment of a Chairman, policies and practices that support equal Chairman below.
to prepare a job description including opportunities and broad-based diversity the time commitment expected.
which will inform our future hiring.
We Role requirements The Committee prepared a detailed A proposed Chairmans other have participated for the last two years specification for the role of Chairman, significant commitments should in the Hampton Alexander review of specifying the skills, knowledge, be disclosed to the Board before women in senior roles which examines experience and attributes required.
appointment and any changes to the the gender balance on our board, the Chairmans commitments should be Executive Committee and across our Process reported to the Board as they arise: direct reports to the Executive The Committee directed the selection and Committee members.
process, under the leadership of Chris Kennedy, independent non-executive review the results of the annual The appointment of new directors director.
The Zygos Partnership Zygos, Board evaluation that relate to the The Committee annually evaluates the an external search consultant, was composition of the Board.
balance of skills, experience, engaged to facilitate the search and independence and knowledge on the selection process.
Board, preparing a description of the role The full terms of reference are Search and capabilities required for a particular available on the Companys website: The Committee considered potential appointment.
A matrix of the skills and www.
It competencies of the current Board is examined a list of candidates in Main activities during the year mapped against the skills and consultation with Zygos, assessing each In 2017 18, the Committees main competencies the Committee believes candidate against the role specification.
activities have included: will be required in the future.
The Committee then identified the appointment of the Companys candidates to be invited to interviews.
We use external search consultants to new Chairman: engage and identify a number of Recruitment candidates, ensuring equal representation, the appointment of the Companys Following the interviews, the Committee aligned with the role and capabilities new Senior Independent Director: discussed the shortlisted and agreed required for the appointment.
Selected that Adam Crozier should be proposed board succession planning: candidates meet with the Committee and to the Board for appointment as further interviews take place before an Chairman.
The Board approved his the re-election of directors at the 2017 appointment is made.
appointment, which was announced on Annual General Meeting: and 4 January 2018 and took effect on Our approach to the annual a review of the Committees 1 March 2018. re-election of directors effectiveness and its terms of As required by the Code, all directors reference.
will be subject to re-election at the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Committee is responsible for Richard Baker completed the individual ensuring that board and committee performance review of each nonmembership is progressively refreshed executive director before he stepped and that there is no undue reliance on down as Chairman in respect of their any one individual.
This was reviewed contribution and time commitment to inFebruary 2018. the Company.
All directors are proposed Board appointments and diversity for reappointment at this years AGM.
Diversity and equality have always been Details setting out why each director is core values at Whitbread.
The Board deemed to be suitable for reappointment believes that diversity in many forms will be included with the AGM papers is critical to the effectiveness of the circulated to all shareholders.
Board and the Company and its continued success.
As highlighted earlier in this report, the Company is actively engaged in the recruitment of two new Adam Crozier non-executive directors of the Board Chairman, Nomination Committee and we remain actively committed to 24 April 2018 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 71
