Governance Governance Corporate governance Stakeholder engagement Our robust governance framework plays In its recent consultation, the FRC is keen to ensure board engagement a crucial role in ensuring that Whitbreads with all companys stakeholders.
This is something the Board already culture and values are set from the top.
considers as highly beneficial in helping us build a greater understanding of our stakeholders views and concerns.
We regularly engage with and receive updates from all our key stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, the media, the Government, key suppliers and non-governmental organisations.
This included reviewing our compliance As part of the Board agenda the with the Code with respect to business directors also receive updates or details and corporate practices, reviewing the of any significant changes and events matters reserved to the Board, and relating to these groups.
reviewing the terms of reference for We are specifically looking this year each of the Board committees.
athow the Board can engage directly With the exception of a couple of with the Whitbread workforce, and I provisions, which are explained later on lookforward to providing an update in this report, we were fully compliant onour work in this area in the 2019 with the Code.
We are aware that the Financial Shareholders play a significant role in Reporting Council the FRC is currently supporting Whitbread and shaping our reviewing the Code, with plans to corporate governance.
The Board is publish a revised code later this year.
committed to ensuring there is Adam Crozier At the time of writing we await further continued sufficient and effective details of the changes, but we do not Chairman communication and engagement foresee any significant difficulties in between the Company and our complying with the changes anticipated.
Company values I would like to thank all those investors During the year we relaunched our Code that have taken the time to engage with I was delighted to be appointed of Conduct, which focuses on our vision us throughout the year, whether by and values, the behaviours we expect Chairman of such a well-respected contacting us with concerns or opinions, from our employees, and conduct we attending the UKSA meeting or meeting and long standing British company expect from the Company as a whole.
Whitbread has We are proud to have created a positive input is much appreciated.
I also very always been committed to culture where our employees trust, much enjoyed meeting a number of our ensuring that corporate respect and look out for each other, and shareholders at my first Annual General are proud to work for Whitbread.
governance is integral to the Meeting AGM last year and I look forward to doing so again at this years organisation and I intend to ensure We encourage our employees to speak AGM as Chairman on Wednesday 27 that this continues.
out if they have concerns or see June 2018. anything which does not meet the A robust governance framework is standards set out in our Code of keyto how we interact with all of our Conduct, and we have an effective stakeholders, from investors to process in place which enables them to employees, and is essential to support do so, details of which can be found in Adam Crozier management in delivering the the Audit Committee report on pages Chairman Companys strategy.
24 April 2018 role in ensuring that Whitbreads culture and values are set from the top.
Board evaluation The Board and its main committees UK Corporate Governance Code participated in an internal evaluation The Board has reviewed the Companys during the year.
Following last years performance against the UK Corporate evaluation, the Board increased its focus Governance Code 2016 the Code, on the areas identified for improvement.
which was applicable for the first time The results from the 2017 18 evaluation this year.
A copy of the Code is available are provided on page 63.
broad consensus from the Board that progress has been made on the areas In order to measure our compliance, identified in last years evaluation, weundertook a thorough review of our although there is still more to do.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 56 Governance Compliance with the Code In September 2017, Sir Ian Cheshire Board responsibilities stepped down as Senior Independent The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Company and Director and was succeeded in that role ensures that there are effective controls in place which enable risk to be by Adam Crozier.
At around the same assessed and managed.
All Board members have responsibility for strategy, time, Richard Baker indicated that he performance, risk and people.
might wish to step down as Chairman and we started the process to identify a The Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined roles which are suitable successor to Richard.
The specific duties and division of responsibilities Sir Ians departure, the Nomination between the Chairman and Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board Committee considered that two new and are set out below, together with information on the roles of the Senior non-executive directors would need to Independent Director, the executive directors and the non-executive directors.
be appointed, but only once the Chairmans succession was clear.
Chairman Chief Executive In January 2018 we announced that Adam Crozier would succeed Richard Baker as Chairman with effect from Leadership of the Board and setting Optimising the performance of the 1 March 2018 and we immediately began its agenda including approval of the Company the process of searching for two new Groups strategy, business plans, Day-to-day operation of the non-executive directors.
annual budget and key areas of business business importance This corporate governance report sets Ensuring effective communication Maintaining appropriate contact out how the Company has complied with shareholders and employees with major shareholders and with the Code in 2017 18.
With the ensuring that Board members exception of two provisions, resulting The creation of shareholder value understand their views concerning from the factors outlined above, the by delivering profitable growth and the Company Company complied with the Code a good return on capital throughout the year.
Ensuring a culture of openness and Ensuring the Company has a strong The first provision with which we did not debate around the Board table team of high-calibre executives, and fully comply was A.
4.1, which relates to putting in place appropriate Leading the annual evaluation of the appointment of a Senior management succession and the Board, the committees and Independent Director.
When Adam development plans individual directors Crozier became Chairman on 1 March Leading and motivating a large 2018, which was the penultimate day of Ensuring, through the General workforce of people the financial year, he stood down as Counsel, that the members of the Senior Independent Director.
We chose Board receive accurate, timely and not to appoint another director to the clear information position on a temporary basis, electing instead to wait until the search for new independent non-executive directors had been completed.
The search for a Senior Independent Director Executive directors new Senior Independent Director is ongoing and this means that, until this The Senior Independent Director The executive directors are responsible search has been completed, there is a provides a sounding board for the for the day-to-day running of the short period of non-compliance across Chairman and supports him in the business and for implementing the the end of 2017 18 and the start of delivery of his objectives.
The Senior operational and strategic plans of 2018 19.
Independent Director is available to the Company.
The second area of non-compliance was shareholders if they have concerns provision D. 2.1 which is in relation to the which the normal channels have membership of the Remuneration failedto resolve or which would be Non-executive directors Committee and states that at least three inappropriate to raise with the members of the Committee, excluding Chairman or the executive team.
The non-executive directors play the Chairman, should be independent Healso leads the annual evaluation akey role in constructively non-executive directors.
As outlined ofthe Chairman on behalf of the challenging and scrutinising the above, we expect at least one of the new otherdirectors.
performance of the management non-executive directors to be appointed of the Company and helping to The Senior Independent Director can to the Remuneration Committee, at develop proposals on strategy.
be contacted directly or through the which point we will be compliant.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 57
