Governance Governance Audit Committee report The Committee continued to focus its work on the Groups financial reporting, financial control and risk management and compliance processes.
Committee evaluation The Committee meets at least As part of the annual board evaluation, four times a year and will hold all Audit Committee members together additional meetings as and when with the Company Secretary completed required.
Meetings are attended by a committee evaluation.
The results of members of the Committee and, the evaluation concluded that the Committee continued to operate by invitation, the Chairman of the effectively, with an appropriate structure Board, the Chief Executive, the and level of experience.
Group Finance Director, the Head Role and Responsibilities of Internal Audit, the Group of the Committee Financial Controller and other The Board has delegated specific relevant people from the business responsibilities to the Committee in when appropriate.
The external accordance with the Code.
The key auditor, Deloitte LLP is also invited responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: to meetings.
Chris Kennedy monitor and review the integrity Composition of the Committee of the Groups half-year and full-year Chairman, Audit Committee In accordance with the UK Corporate financial results and the financial Governance Code the Code, the Board reporting process: has confirmed that all members of the Committee are independent nonmonitor the statutory audit of the executive directors and have been Membership of the Audit Committee annual and consolidated accounts: appointed to the Committee based and meeting attendance ontheir individual financial and review the Groups internal controls Meetings commercial experience.
The Board and risk management systems: attended hasalso confirmed that I, as Chairman and eligible review and monitor the independence ofthe Committee, have recent and Name of director to attend of the external auditor, in particular, relevant financial experience through David Atkins 4 4 the provision of additional services: mycurrent appointment as Chief Chris Kennedy Chairman 4 4 Financial Officer of Micro Focus monitor and review the effectiveness Susan Taylor Martin 4 4 International plc and my previous of the Groups internal audit function: appointments as Chief Financial Officer and of ARM Holdings plc and Group Finance have primary responsibility for the Director of easyjet plc.
recommendations to the Board in As part of the Companys annual relation to the external auditor.
compliance with the Code, an evaluation was undertaken of the skills and experience of the Committee.
In accordance with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Committee as a whole has the competencies relevant tothe sector in which the Company operates.
Through the external appointments that David Atkins and Susan Taylor Martin hold, they bring adepth of financial and commercial experience that add to the strengths ofthe Committee.
Further details on the Committees responsibilities are in the Committees terms of reference on the Companys website: www.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 66 Governance March Main activities of the Audit Committee: Review of the 2016 17 Annual report and Accounts In 2017 18, the Audit Committees Accounting judgement methodology work covered internal controls, risk management, internal audit, external D eloitte 2016 17 external audit update, together with the approval of audit and financial reporting.
The the Deloitte terms of engagement details of the matters discussed at Internal audit approval of plan and fraud update Committee meetings are shown on the right.
R eview of risk management process and risk management framework Through the year, the Committee has Review of the Committees effectiveness and terms of reference also covered the following matters at each meeting: April the quality and integrity of accounting policies and practices: Approval of 2016 17 year-end financial statements including the strategic report governance, consolidated accounts, whether the report is fair, review of the implementation of the balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for new Premier Inn financial systems, shareholders to assess the Groups performance, Business Model and together with the subsequent strategy key judgements and estimates, going concern and viability control environment: and statement together with the letter of representation review of the Speaking Out reports 2016 17 external audit report submitted in accordance with the The regulatory announcements of the results Groups whistleblowing procedures.
A longer-term view of the Groups going concern basis Internal audit annual report and terms of reference July Financial control framework risks and controls E xternal audit effectiveness in respect of the 2016 17 Annual Report and Accounts Treasury control policy October R eview of the half-year statement and report including the appropriate accounting judgements E xternal audit review and approval of the 2017 18 audit plan, presentation of the half-year audit report, together with the letter of representation I nternal audit review Implementation of IFRS 16 leasing update R eview of the progress made in respect of the implementation of the new EU data protection legislation General Data Protection Regulation Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 67 Governance Governance Audit Committee report continued To aid its review, the Committee Intangible asset capitalisation Internal control and risk management considers reports from the Group Given the level of capital expenditure The Audit Committee monitors the Financial Controller, the Group Tax on IT assets, the Committee reviewed systems of risk management and Director, the Director of Internal Audit the Group accounting policy on the internal control.
In addition, the and also reports from the external capitalisation of intangible assets Committee completes an annual review auditor on the outcomes of its half-year and concurred with managements of the effectiveness of these systems in review and annual audit.
The Committee conclusion that the policy remains March, assessing the risk management looks for constructive challenge from appropriate.
framework and policy, managements Deloitte as external auditor.
risk assessment and review process, and Impairment the monitoring and reporting of risk.
The key areas of judgement and A full asset impairment review is This review is completed in conjunction estimates considered by the Committee, undertaken every year and the with an internal control effectiveness in relation to the 2017 18 accounts and Committee is provided with information review from Internal Audit and Group disclosed in Note 2 of the consolidated on how the impairment values have Finance, and considers all material financial statements, were: been derived.
Areas of judgement controls, including financial, operational around the calculation of the discount and compliance controls.
The system Non-underlying items rate used, the growth rates applied, the and processes were considered to be Consideration was given to the sensitivities of the judgements and the robust and no significant weaknesses appropriateness of disclosure for each impairments booked are discussed and were noted.
A robust assessment of the of the items classified as non-underlying.
The impairment values principal risks facing the Company was This included the nature of the items and presented by management were noted carried out by the Board, considering whether they met the criteria as defined and agreed by the Committee.
risk appetite, and each risk was assessed by the accounting policy.
and the level of assurance required was Fair, balanced and understandable Defined benefit pension determined.
Further details of the In order to confirm to the Board that The Committee reviewed, considered principal risks identified and agreed by the Annual Report and Accounts, and exercised judgement on the the Company can be found on pages 54 taken as a whole is fair, balanced and assumptions used to calculate the and 55. understandable, there has been a pension scheme assets and liabilities thorough verification and approval Speaking Out facility under IAS 19, to satisfy itself that process using the Committees In accordance with the Code, the appropriate consideration and balance knowledge of the Company, as Committee has continued to review the had been given to all macroeconomic outlined below: Companys whistleblowing function, factors.
The principal assumptions used known as Speaking Out.
The system is and the sensitivities around them were the Annual Report and Accounts is operated by two external third-party considered and the consistency in drafted by the appropriate senior providers, Hospitality Action in the UK approach from 2016 17 to 2017 18 was management with overall coordination and Navex Global internationally, and assessed, concluding with the same by the Secretariat team to ensure allows employees to report estimates as reached by management.
consistency: anonymously and in confidence.
The Residual value and asset lives comprehensive reviews of the drafts Committee receives regular reports The Committee considered the Group of the Annual Report and Accounts from the General Counsel on the accounting policy in relation to asset are undertaken by management, the operation of this function, and are lives and residual values in the context of Executive Committee and the Audit satisfied that there are appropriate the property, plant and equipment and Committee Chairman: arrangements in place for proportionate intangible assets held by the Group, and and independent investigations.
a final draft is reviewed by the Audit the annual depreciation and impairment Committee prior to consideration by charge.
The Committee concurred with a committee of the Board: and management that the Group accounting policy remains appropriate.
formal approval of the Annual Report and Accounts is given by a committee of the Board.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 68 Governance Internal audit External auditor Auditor independence The internal audit function provides On behalf of the Board, the Committee To safeguard the objectivity and independent assurance through oversees the relationship with the independence of the external auditor, reviewing the risk management external auditor.
Deloitte was appointed the Committees Terms of Reference processes and internal controls as the auditor of the Company in 2015 set out the non-audit services that are established by management.
and the current audit partner is Nicola permitted in certain circumstances and Mitchell who has held this role since the those not permitted at all.
This prevents The Audit Committee monitors and audit engagement began.
Deloitte was the auditor being able to provide certain reviews the scope, extent and reappointed as auditor of the Company services such as internal audits.
For effectiveness of Whitbreads internal at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
certain specified audit and audit-related audit function.
Regular presentations services, the Group can employ the and updates are given to the Committee Auditor effectiveness external auditor without reference to the by the Director of Internal Audit and The effectiveness of the external audit Audit Committee, subject to a specified private discussions are held with the process is dependent on appropriate fee limit of up to 250,000.
For the Director of Internal Audit as and when audit risk identification at the start of the services permitted in certain necessary.
The Committee has approved audit cycle.
We receive from Deloitte a circumstances, agreement must be the Group Internal Audit Terms of detailed audit plan, identifying their sought from me, as Chairman of the Reference which sets out the role, assessment of these key risks.
Committee where fees are less than accountability, authority, independence, the limit specified, or with full Audit These risks were reviewed and they, and objectivity of the internal audit Committee approval where fees together with the work done by the function.
The Committee considers are anticipated to be greater than auditor, were challenged to test matters raised through audit reports 250,000.
A tender process would managements assumptions and and the adequacy of managements be held where appropriate.
estimates around these areas, as well as response to them, included the time other areas reported upon.
The taken to resolve any such matters.
The Deloitte are engaged to provide effectiveness of the audit process was main focus areas for internal audit independent assurance over the assessed in addressing these matters during the year including cyber security, systems transformation governance through the reporting we received from project assurance covering major and project assurance, as permitted by Deloitte at both the half-year and system implementations and the policy on non-audit services.
In addition feedback was international operations.
was approved by the Audit Committee.
sought from the Committee, the Board Independence is maintained as they are and management on the effectiveness The scope of activity of internal audit is not designing the system or its controls of the audit process and targeted and monitored and reviewed at each but reviewing and reporting to assist tailored questionnaires were completed.
An annual plan was the wider programme governance agreed by the Committee in March 2018 required for a successful go-live.
An assessment of the effectiveness which covers the activities to May 2019. of Deloitte in respect of the previous Following a review of the services The Internal Audit plan is determined financial year was undertaken in provided by our external auditor, based on the Groups key risk areas, as July 2017.
Overall, it was noted Deloitte LLP, and taking into well as areas of change within the that the audit was effective and that consideration the ratio of non-audit business, recurring themes from improvements had been made on the to audit fees of 0.3, we can confirm previous audit results and the views of prior financial year, however, there that it continues to be independent.
Risk areas scheduled for remained opportunities to drive future audits include newly established increased efficiency.
financial controls in Premier Inn, systems and processes to support the As part of our review process for this accelerated growth plan for Costa financial year the Committee will be Express, and operational processes in assessing the work of the year-end audit Costa China.
The in-house IT Internal once finalised and an effectiveness Chris Kennedy Audit team provides assurance over review for this financial year, will be Chairman, Audit Committee Whitbreads Information Systems, and undertaken and reported to the July 24 April 2018 delivers integrated IT audits, as well as 2018 Audit Committee meeting.
coordinating assurance reviews to The Committee confirms that the fide-risk Whitbreads ongoing major Company has complied with regard to change projects.
the requirement of the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Group intends to put the external audit out to tender every ten years in the future, which would expect to be in 2025.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 69
