CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance This Statement forms part of the Directors Report on pages 53 to 56.
A principled approach The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules the Disclosure Rules require listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate Governance Code, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The provisions of the Corporate Governance Code, which was issued by the FRC in April 2016, were applicable in the year under review.
The Corporate Governance Code can be viewed at www.
The related Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC, provides specific corporate governance guidelines to investment companies.
The FRC has confirmed that AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies theAICGuide will be meeting their obligations in relation to the Corporate Governance Code and the associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
The AIC Code issued in July 2016 was applicable in the year under review.
The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
We note that the FRC has published a new UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC has followed up with a new AIC CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Code.
The new Code and AIC Code will apply for financial years I am pleased to report below on the Boards beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and accordingly we will approach to corporate governance.
The Board report on our compliance with the new AIC Code in the Companys 2019 annual report.
is responsible for effective governance of the Company and we take our responsibilities H M Henderson underthe UK Corporate Governance Code Chairman 11 March 2019 the Code very seriously.
34 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPLIANCE Mr H M Henderson has been Chairman of the Company since March 2003: he joined the Board in 1988.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as Mr A Watson was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in February 2008.
He is also able to act as a sounding board for the the Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other directors, principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific should this prove necessary, and to act as a channel of relevance to the Company.
communication for shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman has failed to resolve concerns or is The Board considers that reporting against the principles and inappropriate.
recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Corporate Governance Code Independence of the Board willprovide better information to shareholders.
At 31 December 2018 the Board was composed of seven independent non-executive directors and one executive The Company has complied with the recommendations of the director the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board is therefore AIC Code and the best practice provisions of the Corporate independent of the Companys executive management.
All the Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 directors are wholly independent of the Companys various except as set out below: investment managers.
In the opinion of the Board, each of the directors is independent in character and judgement The Corporate Governance Code C. 3.6 includes and there are no relationships or circumstances relating to provisions relating to the need for an internal audit the Company that are likely to affect their judgement.
The Company does not have an internal audit function, for reasons that are explained on page 38: Three of the directors have been on the Board for nine years or more: Mr Henderson, Mr Watson and Mr Bell.
The Board The Corporate Governance Code B.
7.1 includes considers that Mr Henderson and Mr Watson are, and have provisions relating to the annual re-election of all been since their appointment, independent non-executive directors.
As explained on page 36, the Company directors.
Independence stems from the ability to make considers that this provision is inappropriate to the decisions that conflict with the interests of management: this Company.
One-third of directors stand for re-election is a function of confidence, integrity and judgement.
Mr Bell, every three years and all directors with more than nine who is the Chief Executive Officer of Witan, is an executive years service are required to stand for re-election director but is deemed to be independent of the Companys annually.
appointed fund managers and other service providers.
His long service is beneficial to the Company.
Those directors who have served on the Board for more than nine years stand for THE BOARD re-election by the shareholders each year and will do so for The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the as long as they continue to serve on the Board.
Its role is to provide leadership within a framework of firmly of the view, however, that length of service does not of controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board itself impair a directors ability to act independently: rather, a sets the Companys strategic aims subject to the Companys directors longer perspective adds value to the deliberations Articles of Association and to such approval of the shareholders of a well-balanced investment trust company board.
in general meeting as may be required from time to time and ensures that the necessary resources are in place to enable the As reported in his Chairmans statement page 13, Mr Henderson Companys objectives to be met.
has announced that he will be standing down as Chairman at the AGM in 2020 and a search for a new Director is under way.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board have been defined.
There is an agreed procedure for directors, in the Board Diversity furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional The Company supports the objectives of improving the advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
performance of corporate boards by encouraging the appointment of the best people from a range of differing The Board has typically met approximately ten times a year and perspectives and backgrounds.
The Company recognises the deals with the most important aspects of the Companys affairs, benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, and takes including the setting of parameters for, and the monitoring of, thisinto account in its Board appointments.
The Company is investment strategy, the review of investment performance and committed to ensuring that its director search processes actively the extent to which borrowings may be used.
The Chairman is seek men and women with the right qualifications so that responsible for ensuring that the directors are provided with appointments can be made, on the basis of merit, against management, regulatory and financial information that is timely, objective criteria from a diverse selection of candidates.
Board will continue to consider diversity during the director search process and in its current search for a new director has Composition of the Board re-emphasised the guidelines given to the search consultant to Details of the directors are set out on pages 32 and 33.
They ensure a fully diverse list of qualified candidates.
demonstrate a broad range of experience, gained overseas aswell as in the United Kingdom.
Witan Investment Trust plc 35 Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued The Board has reviewed Provision B.
7.1 of the Corporate Appointments to the Board Governance Code, which states that all directors of FTSE 350 The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee oversees companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
the recruitment process, which includes the use of a firm of The Board considers that the annual election of all the directors is non-executive director recruitment consultants.
However, all the inappropriate to the Company.
There are two main reasons: independent non-executive directors are asked to contribute and a itappears to place excessive emphasis on the short term and to consider serving on the sub-committee appointed to draw up insufficient emphasis on the need for an effective board to work the shortlist of candidates.
together and to refresh its composition over time: and b there is some danger, because many small and nominee shareholders New directors are appointed for an initial term ending three years do not exercise their voting rights, that if all the directors seek from the date of their first annual general meeting after re-election at once a minority of the shareholders could engineer appointment, with the expectation that they will serve a minimum the removal of the whole Board for reasons injurious to the of two three-year terms.
There is no absolute limit to the period interests of the Companys investors as a whole.
Therefore the for which a director may serve, although the continuation of Board considers it appropriate to continue to apply Provision B.
7.1 directors appointments is contingent on satisfactory as if the Company were not a constituent of the FTSE350 Index, performance evaluation and re-election at annual general aview which a number of prominent institutional investors meetings.
Directors appointments are reviewed formally by the haveshared.
Board ahead of their submission for re-election.
None of the non-executive directors has a contract of service and a nonBoard evaluation executive director may resign by notice in writing to the Board at The Board has established a process to evaluate its performance any time.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to annually.
This process is based on open discussion and seeks to ensure that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly assess the strengths and weaknesses of the Board and its by the appointment of new directors with the skills and Committees.
The Chairman leads on applying the conclusions of experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by the evaluation.
The Chairman reviews with each director his or directors retirements.
her individual performance, contribution and commitment to the Company.
The Senior Independent Director leads the annual Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to evaluation of the Chairman and reviews the conclusions with him.
theCompany, including in terms of time.
The Board seeks to The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee oversees encompass past and current experience of areas relevant to this process.
In addition, in consideration of Provision B.
6.2 of the theCompanys objective and operations, the most important Corporate Governance Code, which states that evaluation of the skill-sets being investment management, finance, marketing, board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at financial services, risk management, custody and settlement, least every three years, in 2016, the Board appointed BoardAlpha and investment banking.
Specialist firms are usually used to Limited to carry out an evaluation programme.
Whilst the roles and contributions of Limited did not have any other connection with the Company.
The longer-serving directors are subject to rigorous review, the Board Board reviewed their report in March 2017 and the Chairman has is strongly of the view that length of service is only one factor and led on implementing those changes recommended by the report that shareholders benefit from having directors with a longer that the Board considered should be made.
The report did not perspective of the Companys history and its place in the savingsmarket.
identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
The Board intends to appoint an external organisation to facilitate its evaluation in2019.
Directors newly appointed to the Board are provided with an introductory programme covering the Companys strategy, policies and operations, including those outsourced to third Directors remuneration parties.
Thereafter, directors are given, on a regular and ongoing The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 52 details the basis, key information on the Companys investment portfolios, process for determining the directors remuneration and sets out financial position, internal controls and details of the Companys the amounts payable.
regulatory and statutory obligations and changes thereto.
The directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars, Board Committees conferences and courses, if necessary at the Companys The Board has established an Audit Committee and a expense, and to participate generally in industry events.
A log of Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
The membership directors training is maintained and reviewed each year by the ofthe Audit Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Audit Committee.
Committee is set out on pages 32 and 33 The Board has chosen to combine the roles of Remuneration and Nomination in one Election and re-election by shareholders committee.
The roles and responsibilities of the Committees are New directors stand for election by the shareholders at the described in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 40 to 41 annual general meeting that follows their appointment.
and in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 52.
Thereafter all directors stand for re-election at least every three years, as required by the Companys Articles of Association.
Every year the Board reviews its composition and the Directors who have served for more than nine years stand for composition of its two Committees.
The Boards Remuneration re-election annually.
There are currently three directors with and Nomination Committee oversees this process.
Further service of more than nine years: Mr H M Henderson, the Chairman, details are given above under Board evaluation.
36 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors have access to the advice and services of the monitoring of the investment managers and their terms of Companys Executive team, AIFM and the Company Secretary, reference and on the use of derivatives.
The Board, in conjunction through its appointed representative, who are responsible to the with the AIFM, sets limits on matters such as asset allocation, Board for ensuring that Board procedures arefollowed and that gearing and investment in derivatives, within which the CEO applicable rules and regulations are compliedwith.
Meetings of the Board and its Committees The CEO reports to each meeting of the Board.
His reports include Typically, the Board meets approximately ten times each year.
confirmation that the Boards investment limits and restrictions The Chief Executive Officer who is a director, other and those which govern the Companys tax status as an representatives of the Companys Executive team and the AIFM investment trust, have been adhered to.
and a representative of the Company Secretary expect to be present at all meetings.
The Board devotes two days each year to In addition to his responsibilities for the overall management of meetings with the Companys investment managers and each the Company, the CEO manages the Direct Holdings portfolio.
investment manager sends representatives at least once a year.
Amaximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets at the time of The Chairman seeks to encourage open debate within the Board purchase may be invested in specialist funds within this portfolio and a supportive and co-operative relationship with the and there are restrictions on the number, size and type of Executive team and with the Companys investment managers, investments that may be made.
Up to a further 2.5% may be advisors and other service providers.
allocated to newly-established or smaller third-party managers that are viewed as having potential to add value to the overall The number of formal meetings during the year of the Board and portfolio.
its Committees, and the attendance of the individual directors at those meetings, is shown in the table that follows.
The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviews the performance of and the contractual arrangements with the Remuneration and Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible Audit Nomination to the Board for reviewing the performance and the contractual Board Committee Committee arrangements of his staff.
The Boards Remuneration and Number of meetings 10 4 3 Nomination Committee oversees this process.
1 H M Henderson 10 4 3 1 1 A L C Bell 10 4 3 INVESTMENT MANAGERS The Company manages its own operations through the Board S E G A Neubert 9 and that of its AIFM, as set out on page 10.
Each investment R J Oldfield 8 3 manager runs a discrete investment portfolio within the terms of J S Perry 10 4 their investment management contract.
Shares are held by the B C Rogoff 9 Companys custodian depositary.
The Chief Executive Officer A Watson 10 4 leads on the selection and monitoring of the investment managers and their terms of reference, which are approved by P T Yates 4 6 3 3 1 1 the Board and the AIFM.
1 Not a member of the Committee but in attendance by invitation for all or part of the meetings.
The individual investment managers are each appointed to manage a discrete portfolio in accordance with guidelines which All the then directors attended the Annual General Meeting in limit, for example, the markets in which they can invest, the April 2018 and, apart from Mr Oldfield, the Boards Away Day in maximum size of each investment and the amount of cash that May 2018. may be held in normal circumstances.
They are not allowed to invest in unquoted securities, to gear the portfolio, to sell stocks The Board is responsible for determining the strategic direction short or to use derivatives.
The investment managers take ofthe Company and for promoting its success.
At least one of decisions on individual investments and are responsible for itsmeetings each year is devoted entirely to reviewing overall effecting transactions on the best available terms.
The Company strategy and progress is monitored throughout the year.
and the AIFM receive monthly confirmation from each investment manager that it has carried out its duties in accordance with its The Chief Executive Officer and the AIFM monitor investment investment mandate.
performance and all associated matters.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to each Board meeting, at which investment SERVICE PROVIDERS performance, asset allocation, gearing, marketing and investor The Board has delegated a wide range of activities to external relations are usually key agenda items.
agents, including the various investment managers.
These services include the management of the investment portfolio, THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CEO global custody which includes the safeguarding of the assets, The CEO is responsible to the Board and the AIFM for the investment administration, management and financial overallmanagement of the Company including investment accounting, company secretarial and certain other performance, business development, shareholder relations, administrative requirements and registration services.
marketing, investment trust industry matters, administration and Eachofthese contracts was entered into after full and proper unquoted investments.
The duties of the CEO include leading on consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services investment strategy and asset allocation, on the selection and offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as Witan Investment Trust plc 37 Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued The Chief Executive Officer makes regular reports to the Board they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and onthe performance of and activity within the Direct Holdings considers regular reports from the investment managers and portfolio.
In addition, the portfolios performance is independently adhoc reports and information are supplied to the Board from measured, along with those of the third-party managers.
The Companys subsidiary, WIS, is authorised and regulated by The Chief Executive Officer and the AIFM are responsible for the Financial Conduct Authority to provide investment products monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Companys and services and was appointed as the Companys AIFM from service providers.
The Boards Audit Committee oversees this July 2014.
The compliance structures required for these activities, process together with the WIS Risk Committee.
including a compliance manual and a compliance monitoring programme, have been duly put into place.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in confidence evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the any concerns about possible improprieties, whether in matters of Company.
This process accords with the Corporate Governance financial reporting or otherwise, for appropriate independent Code guidance, is subject to regular review by the Audit investigation.
Its staff comprises only seven people including the Committee and was fully in place during the year under review Chief Executive Officer, who are well known to and have frequent and up to the date of this annual report.
The Board remains formal and informal contact with the members of the Board.
responsible for the Companys system of internal control and has charged the Audit Committee with conducting an annual review The Company does not have an internal audit function.
Through of the effectiveness of the system, covering all the controls, WIS, the AIFM, it delegates the management of its investments including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk and most of its other operations to third parties and employs only management systems.
This review takes into account points a small staff.
The investment managers and certain other key raised during the year in the regular appraisal of specific areas of contractors are subject to external regulation and most have risk.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than compliance and internal audit functions of their own.
The eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business Companys investments are held on its behalf by a global objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute custodian appointed by the depositary.
A specialist firm of assurance against material misstatement or loss.
investment accountants and administrators is responsible for investment administration, for maintaining accounting records In accordance with provisions C2 and C3 of the Corporate and for preparing financial accounts, management accounts Governance Code the Board reviews the Companys business and other management information.
Their work is reviewed by an risks at least once a year.
These are analysed and recorded in a independent accountant who also carries out some of the work risk map, which the Audit Committee reviews at each meeting.
that an internal audit function would cover.
In addition, the Board The Company receives from its main contractors formal reports receives an annual report on the investment administrators which detail the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk and internal controls, including a report from the investment which report the details of any known internal control failures.
administrators auditor on the control policies and procedures in operation.
The investment performance of the investment As described elsewhere, the management of Witans portfolio managers, both individually and collectively, is measured for isoutsourced to a number of third party investment managers Witan by a company that is independent of all the investment around the world.
There are currently ten such investment managers.
The corporate Company Secretary is a company with managers as well as the Direct Holdings portfolio which is well-established experience in servicing investment trusts.
managed by the Chief Executive Officer.
The appointment of these and other professional contractors The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility under delegation provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of internal from the Board and the AIFM for a number of aspects of the controls that is balanced and robust.
The Board and the AIFM will management of the portfolio, including asset allocation, gearing continue to monitor its system of internal control in order to and investment in derivatives.
The Board has set guidelines in provide assurance that it operates as intended and the directors respect of each of these aspects within which he may operate.
will review at least annually whether a function equivalent to an The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board regularly on each internal audit is needed.
of these areas, as well as on the overall performance of the Company and other matters of significance.
STEWARDSHIP AND THE EXERCISE OF VOTING POWERS The in-house Executive management team of Witan and WIS is It is the Boards view that, in order to achieve long-term success, responsible for managing and controlling the relationships with companies need to maintain high standards of corporate the third-party managers.
Therefore Witan expects the companies in which it is invested to comply with best The management team receives monthly reports on investment practice in corporate governance matters, or to provide and compliance matters from each manager.
During 2018, the adequate explanation of any areas in which they fail to comply, investment managers were asked to provide detailed information whilst recognising that a different approach may be justified in on their operational structures and systems.
Each year, the Board special circumstances.
In respect of UK companies, current best also receives reports on their internal controls from its investment practice in corporate governance matters is set out in the UK managers: in most cases these include a report from the relevant Corporate Governance Code.
companys auditors on the control policies and procedures in operation.
38 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary The Board encourages the Companys appointed investment at the address shown on page 94. managers to engage with companies and to vote shares, in the best long-term interest of Witan shareholders and in accordance While the Chief Executive Officer and his team expect to lead on with their own investment philosophies.
Where applicable, it preparing and effecting communications with investors, all major monitors the policies of the investment managers in respect of corporate issues are put to the Board or, if time is of the essence, the UK Stewardship Code.
Elsewhere in the world it can be more to a Committee thereof.
difficult to vote shares as each country has its own rules and practices regarding shareholder notification, voting restrictions, The Board places importance on effective communication with registration conditions and share blocking, including, for example, investors and approves a marketing programme each year to dealing constraints.
enable this to be achieved.
Copies of the annual report and the Half Year Report are circulated to shareholders, to those who hold The Company also monitors the Environmental, Social and shares through the subsidiary companys products and, where Governance policies of its managers, given the likely influence of possible, to investors through other providers products and such factors on the long-term growth prospects of the nominee companies or written notification is sent when they are Companies in which they invest on Witans behalf.
In addition, the Company publishes a monthly Companys investment managers are apprised of the factsheet and its net asset value per share is released daily.
All Companys approach to the stewardship of its assets and the this information is readily accessible on the Companys website importance of sound corporate governance, they use their www.
A Key Information Document, prepared in discretion according to their knowledge of the relevant accordance with new EU rules is also published on the circumstances.
The investment managers report their Companys website.
The Company belongs to the Association of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code, or equivalent Investment Companies which publishes information to increase legislation, to the Audit Committee each year.
investors understanding of the sector.
In respect of the direct investments held, the Companys The CEO and his team monitor the share price and the discount Executive Management maintains regular touch with premium to net asset value on a daily basis and he reports to the management of the investee holdings and engages every Board meeting.
Where appropriate, the Board makes use of when issues arise that are controversial or potentially share buybacks at a discount and issuance at a premium to prejudicial to the interests of Witans shareholders.
add to the net asset value per share and achieve a sustainable An annual report is provided to the Audit Committee low discount or a premium to net asset value.
in compliance with the UK Stewardship Code.
APPROVAL SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is This report was approved by the Board of directors on 11 March effective communication with the Companys shareholders.
2019 and is signed on its behalf by: He works closely with the Chief Executive Officer and there is regular liaison with the Companys stockbroker.
There H M Henderson is a process in place for analysing and monitoring the Chairman shareholder register and a programme for meeting or 11 March 2019 speaking with the institutional investors and with private client stockbrokers and advisors.
In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, or the Senior Independent Director, expects to be available to meet the larger shareholders and the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee is available to discuss remuneration matters.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General Meeting as a forum for communication with individual shareholders.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, theChairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee all expect to be present at the Annual General Meeting and to answer questions from shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer makes a presentation tothe meeting.
Witan Investment Trust plc 39 Annual report 2018
