CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements, including consideration of the Companys accounting policies and significant reporting judgements: ensuring the application of the Companys internal financial and regulatory compliance controls and risk management systems using external consultants where appropriate: the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: and STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COMMITTEE reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its duties.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee theCommittee, I am pleased to present the MEETINGS OF THE COMMITTEE Report of the Committee for the year ended The Committee held four meetings during 2018 and also met in 31December 2018.
Meetings are usually attended, by invitation, by the Chairman of the Company, members of management, relevant COMPOSITION AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE external advisers and the auditors.
I report to the Board after The members of the Committee are appointed by the each meeting on the main matters discussed at the meeting.
There are normally three members.
Having been a Insummary, the main matters arising in relation to 2018 were: member since February 2017, I was appointed Chairman of Assessment of the controls to ensure the ownership, valuation the Committee in May 2018, following the retirement from the and liquidity of investments: this includes assessing Board of Robert Boyle, the outgoing Chairman.
The Committee management reports on the controls and procedures of would like to thank Robert, and also Catherine Claydon, for external managers and the external custodian administrator their contributions to its work over many years.
Mr Watson, who and the review of the audit work performed.
No significant was appointed to the Committee in 2006 was a member of issues were identified.
the Committee throughout the year.
Mr Yates was appointed as a member of the Committee with effect from 18 May 2018.
Consideration of other matters in relation to the financial statements including appropriateness of accounting policies, The Board has taken note of the requirements that the revenue recognition, portfolio valuation and calculation of Committee as a whole should have competence relevant to the management fees.
sector in which the Company operates and that at least one Interim and year-end reporting, in the light of the requirements member of the Committee should have recent and relevant of the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the AIC and financial experience.
The Committee is satisfied that the FRC guidance to audit committees on key developments for Committee is properly constituted in both respects: I am annual reports and non-financial reporting.
The Committee aChartered Accountant and was previously a partner at agreed the process, timing and responsibility for compliance.
Ernst&Young and the other Committee members have a combination of financial, investment and other relevant A variety of specific matters including whistleblowing, experience gained throughout their careers.
Details of our anti-money laundering compliance, data and IT systems qualifications and experience are given on pages 32 and 33. security and business continuity.
As explained elsewhere in this Report see page 20, the Company makes extensive use The role of the Committee is to assist the directors in protecting of third party service providers, who are overseen by the WIS shareholders interests through fair, balanced and Executive.
The Committee approves the programme of understandable reporting, ensuring effective internal controls oversight and reviews the results.
and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups In light of the relative simplicity of the operations and theuse auditor.
The Committees role and responsibilities are set out of independent external consultants, who report directly to initsterms of reference, which comply with the UK Corporate theCommittee, to advise on regulatory compliance and Governance Code.
The terms of reference are available on adherence to internal procedures, it was concluded that no request from the Company Secretary and can be seen on internal audit function was required see page38.
In summary, the Committee is responsible for: Assessment of the risks related to the closure of the Witan Wisdom and Jump savings schemes and creation of a specific risk register for the project.
40 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition, Grant Thornton has been appointed to provide Following the appointment of WIS as the Companys AIFM, in 2014, an assurance report on client assets in accordance with theCommittee has worked with the Risk Committee of WIS, the the FCAs Client Assets Sourcebook the CASS Report Companys subsidiary, to ensure WIS compliance with Financial to the FCA in respect of Witan Investment Services Conduct Authority FCA regulations.
Particular topics in 2018 Limited, to be completed by the end of April 2019. included monitoring the implementation of the regulations contained within the Client Assets Sourcebook CASS of the FCA.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Committee also monitored the work required to ensure the The Board has requested the Committee to confirm that in Companys compliance with new legislation in 2018 and 2019, its opinion the Board can make the required statement that including MiFID II, the Criminal Finances Act and the General Data the annual report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Protection Regulation GDPR.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and RISK performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee Management has identified strategic report pages 21 and 22 has given this confirmation on the basis of its review of the five main areas of potential risk: market and investment portfolio: whole document, underpinned by involvement in the planning operational: compliance and regulatory change: accounting: for its preparation, review of the processes to assure the taxation and legal: and liquidity, and has set out the actions taken accuracy of factual content, and by assurances received toevaluate and manage these risks.
from the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
The auditor has also detailed two key audit matters in its report: NON-AUDIT SERVICES valuation and existence of investments: and occurrence and The Committee has adopted the requirements, introduced with completeness of investment income and has set out the work it effect from January 2017, that non-audit fees cannot be more has performed to satisfy itself that these have been properly than 70% of the average audit fees for the last three years.
Any reflected in the financial statements.
new engagement with Grant Thornton for any non-audit service must be approved in advance by the Committee.
The Committee The Committee has monitored the controls designed to mitigate assesses each service individually, having considered the the risks associated with these matters during the year, including cost-effectiveness of the service and the impact on the auditors reviewing managements risk report at each meeting and independence.
Grant Thornton are not providing any non-audit requiring amendments to both risks and mitigating actions as services to the Company other than to provide the CASS report, appropriate.
The Committee considers that management has for which their fees are budgeted at 30,000, and compliance carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the with covenants on the Secured Bonds 2,000.
The ratio of audit Company, including those that would threaten its business to non-audit work in the year was 64:36.
The Committee model, future performance, solvency or liquidity and has taken considered that it was in the interests of the Company to appoint appropriate action to mitigate those risks.
There were no Grant Thornton forthis work as it would not be cost-effective to significant areas of material judgement or unadjusted errors.
GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY EFFECTIVENESS OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee has assessed the information, forecasts and The Committee assessed its own effectiveness during the assumptions underlying the Viability and Going Concern year.
The Committee considered that its approach was Statements on page 23 and recommended to the Board comprehensive and appropriate and that it focused on that they are appropriate.
therightissues and was managed well.
EXTERNAL AUDIT APPROVAL Grant Thornton UK LLP was appointed as statutory auditor in 2016.
This report was approved by the Committee on 11 March 2019 In accordance with the current legislation, the Company will andis signed on its behalf by: need to re-tender for new auditors at least every ten years and will have to change its auditor after 20 years.
The audit partner Jack Perry is Marcus Swales.
The auditor is required to rotate partners Chairman of the Audit Committee every five years and it is proposed that Mr Swales should 11 March 2019 serve until the AGM in 2021, provided shareholders approve the continued appointment of Grant Thornton.
Accordingly, the Committee considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the financial year.
The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of the audit process, including agreeing the auditors assessments of materiality, and monitors the auditors independence and objectivity.
The Committee conducts a formal review of the performance of the auditor following the conclusion of the audit.
Witan Investment Trust plc 41 Annual report 2018
