Report of the Audit Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present its the policy on non-audit services: report for the year ended 31 December 2018. the audit plan and fees with the auditor, including the key areas of focus: and The membership of, and attendance at, Committee meetings is set valuation approach and process.
Following the performance evaluation of the Committee as set out on page 46, the Committee considers itself to have the required breadth of skills and experience to discharge its role.
Non-audit services The Committee has reviewed and implemented a policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services.
During the The role of the Audit Committee year ended 31 December 2018 the auditor has provided the following The role of the Committee is defined in its terms of reference, which non-audit service: review of the Companys half-year accounts for the can be found on the Companys section of the Portfolio Managers period ended 30 June 2018.
Prior to undertaking this non-audit service, website at woodfordfunds.
In summary, the role includes the Committee reviewed the auditors controls in place to ensure that the following: the auditors objectivity and independence were safeguarded.
The fee for this non-audit service was 10,000.
The fee to be paid with to monitor the financial reporting process: respect to the audit of the annual report and accounts for the year to review and monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual ended 31 December 2018 is 62,000.
Therefore, the ratio of financial statements and review and challenge where necessary non-audit to audit fees is 1: 6.2. the accounting policies and judgements of the AIFM, Portfolio Manager and administrator: It was agreed that all requests or applications for other services to be to review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys provided by the auditor should be submitted to the Committee and internal financial control and risk management systems: will include a description of the services to be rendered and an to review the effectiveness of the external audit process: anticipated cost.
Following the annual review of this policy, the to make recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment Committee has concluded that it still remains appropriate.
or removal of the external auditor and to approve its remuneration and terms of engagement: to review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity: to consider the provision of non-audit services: to consider the provision of services by the Companys appointed tax advisers: to consider any dividend payments and distributions to shareholders: to consider and review the valuation and existence of the Company's assets: to consider the need for an internal audit function: and to review the whistleblowing policies of the third-party service providers and receive assurances that the appropriate bribery risk and anti-corruption policies are in place to ensure compliance with the Bribery Act 2010.
Matters considered during the year The Committee met four times during the year and three times post the year end.
At those meetings, the Committee has reviewed the following: the Companys financial statements for the half year and year end and made formal recommendations to the Board.
In doing so, the Committee has reviewed the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and whether appropriate estimates and judgements were made: the internal controls and risk management systems of the Companys third-party service providers to which it has delegated its operations: the Companys risk matrix: the whistleblowing policy of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager: Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 49 Report of the Audit Committee CONTINUED Significant accounting matters During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Committee considered the following significant issues, including principal risks and uncertainties in light of the Companys activities and issues communicated by the auditor during its review, all of which were satisfactorily addressed: Issue considered How the issue was addressed Valuation of the investment portfolio, including the unquoted holdings The Companys assets are principally invested in quoted and unquoted equities.
The Committee reviewed internal control reports from the AIFM in the year, reporting on the systems and controls around the pricing and valuation of securities.
The Committee notes that quoted investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by third-party financial data vendors, unless trading volume would indicate that price is not a reliable valuation.
In such cases, the asset will be subject to fair value as if it were an unquoted holding.
In respect of the unquoted holdings, at each meeting the Committee reviews a report on the revaluations undertaken on the unquoted holdings during the period and challenges the considerations and key assumptions made where appropriate, to ensure that the valuations are accurate.
During the period under review, the Committee has also reviewed the process in place to ensure the accurate valuation of unquoted holdings on an ongoing basis.
The Committee has also considered the work of the AIFMs Fair Value Pricing Committee, which takes inputs from the Portfolio Manager and IHSMarkit who act as an independent valuation adviser, which considers the pricing of the unquoted holdings.
One of the Committee meetings held during the year included a more detailed session on valuation methodology and reporting.
This was attended by the AIFM and IHSMarkit.
Please see note 2 b on pages 66 and 67 for further details.
Compliance with Section 1158 of the CTA The Committee receives assurance from the Company's administrator that the Company has been in compliance with Section 1158 of the CTA.
This is other than the monitoring of close company status, which is monitored by way of an alert that has been set up by the Companys registrar to notify the Company Secretary should more than 0.5 per cent of shares change hands.
Risk of misappropriation of assets and unsecured ownership of The Committee reviews reports from its service providers on key investments and management override of controls controls over the assets of the Company.
Any significant issues are raised by the Depositary and reported by the AIFM to the Board.
The AIFM has put in place procedures to ensure that investments can only be made to the extent that the appropriate contractual and legal arrangements are in place to protect the Companys assets.
The risk that income is overstated, incomplete or inaccurate through The audit for the year ended 31 December 2018 included checks on failure to recognise proper income entitlements or to apply the the completeness and accuracy of income and also checked that this appropriate accounting treatment for recognition of income.
has been recognised in accordance with stated accounting policies.
Internal controls The Directors believe that the Company does not require an internal audit function, principally because the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third parties, which are monitored by the Committee, and which provide control reports on their operations at least annually.
No significant matters of concern were identified during this review.
The Committee reviewed and, where appropriate, updated the risk matrix during the period.
This is done on a bi-annual basis.
Going concern and long-term viability of the Company The Committee considered the Companys financial requirements for the next 12 months and concluded that it has sufficient resources to meet its commitments.
Consequently, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Committee also considered the longer-term viability statement within the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018, covering a five-year period, and the underlying factors and assumptions that contributed to the Committee deciding that this was an appropriate length of time to consider the Companys long-term viability.
The Companys viability statement can be found on page 42.
Following consideration of the above matters and its detailed review, the Committee was of the opinion that the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
50 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc FRC Audit Quality Review The FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR routinely monitors the quality of the audit work of certain UK audit firms through inspections of sample audits and related procedures at individual audit firms.
The AQR carried out a review of the audit of the Companys financial reporting for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Committee discussed the review and the actions undertaken by Grant Thornton UK LLP to address the minor improvements raised.
External auditor The Companys external auditor, Grant Thornton, was appointed prior to the listing of the Company in 2015 and is therefore in its fourth year of tenure.
Under the FRCs ethical standards applicable to public interest entities, the Company is required to re-tender, at the latest, by 2025.
The Committee intends to re-tender within the timeframe set by the FRC.
It is not considered appropriate to consider the auditors succession at this point in time.
During the period under review, the Companys appointed audit partner was Mr Marcus Swales.
Mr Swales has significant experience in the audit of investment trusts.
In accordance with UK legislation, the audit partner must rotate at least every five years.
Mr Swales will be due to rotate out of this role during 2021 at the latest.
Mr Swales has led the audit of the year-end accounts.
The audit fees for the period under review can be found in note 5 to the accounts on page 69.
The Committee monitors the auditors objectivity and independence on an ongoing basis.
In determining the auditors independence, the Committee has assessed all relationships with the auditor and received confirmation from the auditor that it remained independent and that it had implemented policies and procedures to meet the requirements of the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards.
The Committee has also received confirmation that no issues of conflict had arisen during the period.
The Committee is therefore satisfied that Grant Thornton is independent.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process on an annual basis and makes recommendations to the Board on its re-appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Committee has reviewed the Letter of Engagement from Grant Thornton and agreed that it reflected the services outlined in the annual audit plan for the year.
The Committee has met with the audit team and assessed Grant Thorntons performance to date.
The review has involved an examination of the auditors remuneration, the quality of its work, including the quality of the audit report, the quality of the audit partner and audit team, the qualifications and expertise of the audit firm and the resources available to it, the identification of audit risk, the planning and execution of the audit, and the terms of engagement.
The Committee has also reviewed feedback from service providers in respect of the conduct of the audit for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Following discussions with the AQR and review of the effectiveness of the audit for the year ended 31 December 2018, the Committee was satisfied that Grant Thornton had carried out its duties effectively.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that it proposes to shareholders via an ordinary resolution that Grant Thornton be re-appointed as auditor at the AGM.
Grant Thornton has confirmed its willingness to continue in office.
The Committee has direct access to the Companys auditor and provides a forum through which the auditor reports to the Board.
Representatives of the auditor attend the Committee meetings regularly.
Tax adviser The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys tax adviser, Duff & Phelps Limited, on an annual basis and makes recommendations to the Board as to its appointment and remuneration as set out on page 46.
CMA Order The Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, issued by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA Order.
Steven Harris Chairman of the Committee 4 April 2019 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 51
