GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Directors support high standards of corporate governance and it is the policy of the Company to comply with current best practice in UK corporate governance to the extent appropriate for a company of its size.
The Board intends that the Company will comply fully with the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code April 2016 during the 2019 financial year, save as set out below: a William A. Franke, the Chairman, does not meet the independence criteria set out in the Corporate Governance Code section B.
1.1, given that he is the managing partner of Indigo.
However, given the benefits to the Company of his recognised experience in the airline industry, the Board believes that Mr Franke should continue as Chairman.
b The underlying principles of the Companys Remuneration Policy were last approved by the Companys Shareholders at the Companys 2015 annual general meeting.
A revised policy, described in more detail in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 54 and in relation to which the Company consulted with a number of the Companys largest Shareholders, will be put to the Companys Shareholders for approval at the Companys 2018 annual general meeting.
The underlying principles of the revised policy remain consistent with the current policy, namely that: i remuneration must be competitive whilst not being more than is necessary to attract, retain and motivate executive management of the quality required to continue to run the Company successfully: and ii a significant proportion of remuneration remains performance based.
The revised policy also now includes provisions allowing the Company to recover sums paid or withhold the payment of any sum as mentioned in paragraph D. 1.1. of the Corporate Governance Code.
However, the Remuneration Policy currently in effect and as approved at the Companys 2015 annual general meeting does not contain such provisions, although the Company has been transparent with its Shareholders in this respect.
The Board considers that it and the Company have, during the financial year ended 31 March 2018, complied with the Corporate Governance Code April 2016, save as set out above.
The Corporate Governance Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and is available for review on the Financial Reporting Council's website: www.
Our key Shareholders As at 31 March 2018, the Company had been notified pursuant to DTR 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTRs that the following Shareholders held more than 3 per cent.
of the Companys issued Ordinary Shares: Shareholder Reported shareholding Reported number of shares Indigo Hungary LP 15.83 per cent.
5,713,122 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 5.30 per cent.
3,855,647 FIL Investments International 5.03 per cent.
3,655,801 Indigo Maple Hill LP 4.79 per cent.
3,484,491 As at 4 May 2018, being the latest practicable date before the approval of the annual report and accounts, the Company had been notified that the following Shareholders held more than 3 per cent.
3,855,647 FIL Investments International 5.29 per cent.
3,850,665 Indigo Maple Hill LP 4.79 per cent.
3,484,491 Changes in interests that have been notified to the Company pursuant to DTR 5 of the DTRs since 4 May 2018 can be found in the Regulatory News section of the Investor Relations page of the Companys corporate website: http: corporate.
com en-GB investor relations news press releases.
Our relationship with Indigo On 31 March 2018, Indigo Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill LP together held 20.62 per cent.
of the Companys issued Ordinary Shares, as well as 29,830,503 convertible shares of 0.0001 each in the capital of the Company Convertible Shares.
The Convertible Shares do not have any right to participate in the Companys profits and are, save in very limited circumstances, non-voting.
These limited circumstances include the consideration of a resolution for the winding-up of the Company or the variation of the rights attaching to the Convertible Shares or any variation of the rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares into which the Convertible Shares may be converted.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 32 GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED Our key Shareholders continued Our relationship with Indigo continued Each Convertible Share may be converted into one Ordinary Share, as long as the ownership of the Company remains compliant with applicable EU ownership and control rules.
Indigo also holds a number of convertible notes which may be converted into Ordinary Shares, again provided that the Companys ownership remains compliant with EU ownership and control rules.
The terms of these convertible notes are governed by a note purchase agreement dated 24 February 2015 and entered into between the Company, Wizz Air Hungary Ltd. and Indigo.
Our Chairman, William A. Franke, is the managing partner of Indigo.
According to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules the Listing Rules, any person who exercises or controls the exercise, on their own or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, of 30 per cent.
or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of a company are known as controlling shareholders.
During its preparation for its initial public offering in February 2015, the Company discussed with the UK Listing Authority that, in the circumstances, Indigo would be treated as a controlling shareholder of the Company for these purposes.
The Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement, which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence provisions.
The agreement must contain undertakings that: a transactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder and or any of its associates will be conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: b neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing the listed company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and c neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a Shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
Wizz Air entered into a relationship agreement with Indigo dated 24 February 2015.
The key terms of this relationship agreement are set out below.
Independence Indigo has undertaken to exercise its voting powers in relation to the Company to ensure that the Company is capable of operating and making decisions for the benefit of the Shareholders of the Company as a whole and independently of Indigo at all times.
In addition, Indigo has undertaken that it will not, and will procure that none of its associates will: a take any action that would have the effect of preventing the Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and b propose or procure the proposal of a Shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
Board Indigo may nominate: a three Directors to the Board if Indigo and its associates hold in excess of 30 per cent.
of the fully converted share capital of the Company i. e. assuming the conversion in full of all Convertible Shares and Convertible Notes : b two Directors to the Board if Indigo and its associates hold in excess of 20 per cent.
of the fully converted share capital: or c one Director to the Board if Indigo and its associates hold in excess of 10 per cent.
of the fully converted share capital each an Indigo Director.
If Indigo and or its associates no longer hold at least 30, 20 or 10 per cent.
respectively, of the fully converted share capital of the Company, then Indigo has agreed to procure, insofar as it is legally able to do so, that the appropriate number of Indigo Directors resigns from the Board unless a majority of the independent Directors resolve that any Indigo Director should remain on the Board.
Indigo may not nominate any person to be an Indigo Director whose re-election has been proposed to, but not approved by, the holders of Ordinary Shares in general meeting, or who has been removed from office by a resolution of the holders of Ordinary Shares.
Indigo may also nominate one Indigo Director to each of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee until the earlier of: a twelve months from admission: or b Indigo and its associates ceasing to hold at least 10 per cent.
of the fully converted share capital of the Company.
The Board shall manage the Company independently of Indigo in accordance with the articles of association, the Listing Rules and applicable law.
The parties have also agreed that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman shall comprise independent Non-Executive Directors, the Nomination Committee shall consist of a majority of independent Directors and, save as set out in the paragraph above, the Remuneration and Audit Committees shall consist only of independent Directors.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 33 GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED Our key Shareholders continued Our relationship with Indigo continued Arms length transactions All transactions and relationships between the Company and Indigo or any of their associates shall be conducted at arms length, on a normal commercial basis and in accordance with the related party transaction rules set out in Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules.
Provision of information and confidentiality Indigo shall, subject to the Companys obligations under all applicable laws including, without limitation, the Listing Rules and the DTRs, be provided with financial, management and or other information relating to any member of the Group as Indigo or any of its associates may reasonably require for the purposes of any internal or external reporting requirements which the relevant party is required by internal compliance, law or regulation to make.
Indigo may disclose any such financial, management and or other information to its associates provided that: a Indigo will and will procure that any associate to whom any information is passed will keep confidential any such information: b such information does not include information relating to any transaction between the Company and Indigo or any of their associates obtained as a result of an Indigo Directors position as a Director: c disclosure would not result in the breach by the Company of the DTRs or require the Company to make a public announcement: and d the name of such persons to whom information is disclosed is added to the Companys insider list.
Confirmation regarding compliance The Board confirms that, since the entry into the relationship agreement, on 24 February 2015, until 23 May 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report: a the Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the relationship agreement: and b so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the relationship agreement have been complied with by Indigo.
Engaging with our Shareholders Wizz Air recognises the need to engage with its Shareholders.
Over the course of the past year, the Companys Investor Relations department has arranged a number of roadshows, timed around the release of financial results, as well as other meetings with investors.
At the 2017 annual general meeting, attended by all of the Directors, both the Chairman and the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director, along with the Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, were available to answer questions from investors.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and the Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee will be present at the 2018 annual general meeting and, again, will be available to answer questions from investors.
A report on investor relations is presented by the Chief Financial Officer at each Board meeting, during which feedback from meetings held by senior management with investors is provided.
The Board is supplied with copies of analysts and brokers briefings as they are received.
Reflecting the importance that the Company places on being transparent with its Shareholders, key Shareholders were consulted on certain aspects of the proposed Remuneration Policy set out on pages 50 to 54, which will be put to a Shareholder vote at the 2018 annual general meeting.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 34
