Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Corporate governance report Chairmans governance statement I am pleased to introduce on behalf of the Board, Morrisons Corporate governance report for the financial year 2017 18 Andrew Higginson, Chairman As we Fix, Rebuild and Grow Morrisons, a robust and effective Colleague voice at the Board governance framework allows our colleagues the agility and flexibility Throughout Morrisons we have a culture of listening hard and responding for improvements to be made to every aspect of the Group.
This culture also extends to our Board.
We continue to make good progress in the Groups turnaround and Board members have met hundreds of Morrisons colleagues through this is reflected in improving like-for-like sales, customer satisfaction the various functional updates, store and site visits and personal shopping and colleague engagement.
This governance framework ensures that experiences.
The Board also receives updates on the Your Say survey our key stakeholders are put at the heart of all decisions we make in which three-quarters of colleagues within Morrisons have shared their to drive long-term value creation for all.
More information on the Your Say survey Board effectiveness can be found in our colleagues section on page 14.
The national Your Say forum, which includes a representative from each store region, The Board and management team continue to work well together.
manufacturing site and distribution centre, gathers twice a year to discuss The Board draws on the Directors range of experience, knowledge issues that are important to the colleagues they represent.
David Potts, and skills to help Fix, Rebuild and Grow Morrisons for all stakeholders.
along with other senior members of the Groups management team, We are delighted to welcome Tony van Kralingen and Kevin Havelock have been in attendance to discuss colleague views.
Tony van Kralingen to the Board.
Both Tony and Kevin bring a wealth of experience from will be attending these forums throughout 2018 19. the fastmoving consumer goods industry.
Tony has spent much of his induction period listening to shareholders and other stakeholders to Engagement with shareholders help guide his approach as Chair of our Remuneration Committee.
We take the opinions of all our stakeholders very seriously, and as such, Kevin joined the Board on 1 February 2018 and has started his we continue to focus on engagement with our shareholders.
appointment, Tony van Kralingen has begun a comprehensive shareholder An external review of the effectiveness of our Board was undertaken engagement programme and has personally spoken with holders by Consilium Board Review during the Summer.
This review found that representing over 42% of Morrisons current register.
the Board has a well-balanced set of capabilities: and that governance and In such a competitive industry, we have and continue to make tough compliance is strong.
The review provided the relatively newly established decisions every day.
The Board and the Group will continue to listen Board an opportunity to reflect on its effectiveness and as such many hard to our stakeholders and respond quickly where we can.
insightful and helpful suggestions were made that are in the process of being implemented.
Andrew Higginson Chairman Diversity We truly value diversity and a culture of inclusion across our colleague base, and the Board itself.
A broad range of skills, experience and knowledge is required in our Group as this is invaluable to the improvements we will continue to make.
The Board continues to meet the Groups policy to maintain female representation at not less than 20%.
At the end of the financial year, 22% of the total Board composition was female.
