GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A COMPANY COMMITTED TO HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans statement on corporate governance Wizz Air grew its business by close to 25% in F18, both in terms of the number of customers travelling with the Company as well as its revenues.
During the course of F18, the value of the Company increased to a point where it is was, as at the end of F18, in the top 44% of the FTSE 250.
As the Company continues to grow, so the Directors recognise the importance of ensuring that the Companys corporate governance remains of a high standard, to maintain the trust that our investors have placed in the Company.
As Chairman, I am pleased to see the commitment of our Directors to the Companys business, with a number spending much time outside formal Board meetings interacting with the Companys management.
th Unfortunately, on 9 February 2018, Wioletta Rosoowska decided to step down from her position as a NonExecutive Director owing to her executive business commitments.
The Board is currently undertaking a search for the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director and, while the focus will be on ensuring that the best candidate for the role is selected, the retained search firm has been instructed to bear in mind the Boards determination to increase its gender diversity.
One of the keys to the Companys success to date has been its agility in responding to opportunities and issues that develop.
However, it is important that this agility is matched by a robust governance process over significant decisions.
I believe that one of the strengths of the Companys Board is the willingness and ability of the Directors to be involved in strategic discussions and support the Companys management with their decisions in often-challenging timeframes.
For example, during F18 the Board has discussed on a number of occasions the possible outcomes of the United Kingdoms decision to exit the European Union, or Brexit.
In September 2017, the Board approved the implementation of an important part of the Companys contingency plan for Brexit, with the establishment of a new airline in the United Kingdom.
The licensing process for Wizz Air UK was completed in April and, as well as being part of the Companys Brexit contingency strategy, Wizz Air UK may also present the Company with additional commercial opportunities arising from any future consolidation in the United Kingdom airline market.
In November 2017, the Board responded swiftly to an opportunity to complete an exceptional deal at the Dubai International Airshow for 146 additional firm-order Airbus A320neo Family aircraft and which secures the Companys delivery stream until the end of 2026.
This additional order was the culmination of a robust, competitive negotiation process between the two major airframe manufacturers, with Airbus finally delivering the best overall mix of aircraft, cost efficiency, support and price.
The Board discussed and approved the deal in the context of the Companys long-term strategy and ambitions, allowing the Company to continue to grow at an industry-leading rate and expand its market reach across and beyond Europe.
With such significant developments taking place in the Companys business, it is important the Board continues to understand risks that have the potential to affect adversely the achievement of the Companys strategic objectives.
The Companys more structured enterprise risk management system has now been in place for a full financial year, under the oversight of the Audit Committee.
The Companys Risk Council reports to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis, with the risk report being updated following meetings, facilitated by Ernst & Young, between the Companys Head of Internal Audit and individual risk owners, with periodic updates then being given to the full Board.
Although falling just after the end of F18, the Board once again took action to ensure that the aggregate shareholdings of a number of shareholders who were not Qualifying Nationals, as defined in the Companys Articles of Association, did not exceed the Permitted Maximum, also as defined in the Companys Articles of Association.
Those measures remain in place but, again, this demonstrates that the Board is prepared to take decisive action to ensure the protection of the Companys interests and ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements.
The Board thanks each and every one of our investors for the faith they have shown in the Companys business and, also, recognises the trust that the Shareholders have placed in the Board and senior management.
Over the course of the last year, a large number of meetings with investors were organised by senior management and, in addition, I have also spoken to a number of Shareholders myself.
Any concerns or comments raised were fed back to the Board.
The Board has carried out an evaluation of its performance during the financial year ended 31 March 2018 through an internally facilitated process.
The performance evaluation for the financial year ending 31 March 2019 will be externally facilitated and the Board will carry out a competitive tender process for the appointment of an appropriate adviser.
Once again, I would stress that the trust that both investors and other stakeholders have placed in the Board is not taken for granted.
We will continue to develop our processes to ensure that our policy of ensuring high standards of governance appropriate for the Company is maintained in the future and in a manner which is appropriate for the Companys continued fast rate of growth.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 31
