Corporate governance statement This corporate governance statement forms part of the Chairman and Senior Independent Director Directors report.
The Chairman, Susan Searle, is independent and considers herself to have sufficient time to commit to the Companys affairs.
Statement of compliance The Chairmans other commitments are detailed in her biography The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate on page 31. governance and considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Mr Hodson was appointed as the Senior Independent Director Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, provides better information to SID of the Company on 1 June 2018.
He provides a channel for any shareholders as it addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code of shareholder concerns regarding the Chairman and takes the lead in Corporate Governance the UK Code, as well as setting out additional the annual evaluation of the Chairman by the independent Directors.
principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment trusts, and is endorsed by the Financial Board responsibilities and relationship with the Portfolio Manager Reporting Council the FRC.
The terms of the FRCs endorsement mean The Portfolio Manager is in frequent contact with the Board and works that AIC members who report against the AIC Code and the AIC Guide with the AIFM who supplies a monthly report to the Board.
The report meet fully their obligations under the UK Code and the related disclosure covers a range of key measures, a valuation update detailing the basis requirements contained in the Listing Rules.
Both the AIC Code and AIC of movements in valuation, details on cross trades and hedging.
Guide are available from the AIC website at theaic.
A copy of the Detailed reports are provided by the Portfolio Manager at each Board UK Code can be obtained at frc.
meeting and Neil Woodford and his team attend meetings to talk through performance and specific progress against milestones for The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the key portfolio companies.
The Chairman encourages a direct, open the 2016 edition of the AIC Code applicable to the Company for the and constructive debate to foster a supportive and co-operative year ended 31 December 2018.
The Company has complied with the approach but with an appropriate level of challenge.
recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except as set out below.
Board committees The Board operates two committees: the Management Engagement the role of the chief executive: and Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Board as a whole considers executive directors remuneration.
and approves Directors remuneration and new appointments.
The For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK need for separate remuneration and nomination committees will be Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the kept under review but, at present, given the size of the Board these Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In functions are overseen by the full Board.
particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and Audit Committee administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, The Audit Committee is comprised of all Directors and is chaired by the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal Steven Harris, who is a chartered accountant.
The Company has therefore not reported further in at least twice a year.
Given the size and nature of the Board, it is felt respect of these provisions.
appropriate that all Directors are members of the Audit Committee.
The Board of Directors Susan Searle, the Companys Chairman, is therefore a member of the The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the long-term Audit Committee.
The Directors believe it is appropriate for the success of the Company.
It provides overall leadership, sets the Chairman of the Board to be a member of the Audit Committee, given strategic aims of the Company and ensures that the necessary her financial experience.
The Audit Committee is also of the view that resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and her membership would not compromise her independence as fulfil its obligations to shareholders within a framework of high Chairman of the Board.
The Board has delegated certain standards of corporate governance and effective internal controls.
responsibilities to its Audit Committee, details of which can be found The Directors are responsible for the determination of the on pages 49 to 51.
Companys investment policy and investment strategy and have Following the Board effectiveness review, the Board has decided to overall responsibility for the Companys activities, including the expand the role of the Audit Committee to cover Risk and Valuation.
review of investment activity and performance, and the control and In addition, the Committee will also develop further the relationship supervision of the Portfolio Manager.
with the key third-party service providers, the AIFM and Northern The Board consists of six Directors, all of whom are independent Trust.
There are various processes and reporting mechanisms to non-executive Directors.
Biographies of the Directors are shown on the Board from each of these parties, but the Board felt that pages 31 to 33 and demonstrate the wide range of skills and relationships could be further improved if the chairman of this experience they bring to the Board.
The Directors possess business Committee was engaged more regularly with these organisations and financial expertise relevant to the direction of the Company between Board meetings.
The requirement for the chairman of this and consider themselves to be committing sufficient time to the Committee comprises a broad set of skills and familiarity with Companys affairs.
investment businesses and an increased level of time commitment including regular time spent at Woodfords offices in Oxford.
This The terms and conditions of the appointment of Directors are enlarged role is also designed to provide an even greater level of formalised in letters of appointment, copies of which are available on engagement with the Portfolio Manager as the Company evolves request from the Company Secretary.
None of the Directors has a through its next phase.
The membership of this revised Committee contract of service with the Company nor has there been any other will initially be the full Board.
contract arrangement between the Company and any Director at any time during the year.
Directors are not entitled to compensation for loss of office.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 45 Corporate governance statement CONTINUED Management Engagement Committee The Directors opted to undertake an internal performance evaluation The Management Engagement Committee is comprised of all the for the year ended 31 December 2018.
This was undertaken by the Directors and is chaired by Susan Searle.
The Committee meets Company Secretary by way of a series of questionnaires specifically at least once a year.
Its principal duties are to consider the terms designed to assess the strengths and independence of the Board of appointment and ongoing performance of the AIFM, Portfolio and the Chairman, individual Directors and the performance of its Manager and the Companys other service providers, with the Committees.
The evaluation of the Chairman is carried out by the exception of the auditor review which is dealt with by the Audit other Directors of the Company, led by the SID.
The Committees job is to ensure that the level of fees The questionnaires are also intended to analyse the focus of Board remain competitive, the service provided is of a good quality and the meetings and assess whether they are appropriate, or if any additional notice periods are appropriate and in the best interest of information may be required to facilitate Board discussions.
The committee also reviews the service providers and results of the Board evaluation process were reviewed and discussed managers' anti-bribery and corruption policies to ensure compliance by the Board as a whole.
Following the evaluation, the Board discussed the key themes that During the year, the Management Engagement Committee reviewed emerged.
The balance of skills around the Board was considered to all the third-party service providers and is considering areas for be appropriate with a good mix of expertise relevant to the WPCT improved communication and optimisation of operations.
portfolio, together with more specialist investment trust expertise.
The terms of reference of the Committees are available on the However, as the WPCT portfolio is maturing and the strategy further Companys website: woodfordfunds.
develops, this will be kept under review.
The Portfolio Manager was felt to be very responsive with a good level of transparency on specific Meeting attendance holdings, including deep dives into the top portfolio companies.
The table below sets out the Directors attendance at scheduled However, there was felt to be room for enhancing reporting and Board and Committee meetings held during the year ended communication with both the Portfolio Manager and the third-party 31 December 2018, against the number of meetings each Board or service providers.
This is a unique and complex investment trust with Committee member was eligible to attend.
highly specialised assets and an outsourced model.
These discussions led to the conclusion that the Audit Committee could Board Audit do more to further additional communication with all parties, Committee consider in more detail emerging risks, while streamlining some of the reporting from the third-party service providers.
A common Susan Searle 5 5 4 4 theme was the direct style of communication, together with a Alan Hodson 5 5 4 4 willingness to commit the time to ensure full understanding of the Scott Brown 5 5 4 4 opportunities ahead and issues faced.
Carolan Dobson 5 5 4 4 Steven Harris 5 5 4 4 Succession planning will be a topic for future discussion, with the Louise Makin 5 5 4 4 immediate priority being to recruit an additional non-executive Director to chair the enlarged role of the Audit Committee.
Four The Management Engagement Committee meeting to review the Board members have served just over four years and two for three AIFM, Portfolio Manager and the Companys other service providers years, therefore the Board is still relatively new for what is a long-term in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 took place post year patient investment vehicle.
The annual strategy day held in January provides a focus for setting The Board met once during the year for a whole day to review and clear goals for the next phase of the Company and ensuring that focus on the Companys strategy.
the Board reflects on achievement to date in the context of strategy communicated to shareholders.
During the year the Board considered the opportunity to acquire shares in assets held by Woodford Equity Income Fund in return for The Directors intend to engage an external provider to conduct the the issue of shares in WPCT.
The Board met additionally both Board evaluation process for the year ending 31 December 2019. face-to-face and on numerous conference calls to consider the This will include one-on-one interviews with Board members.
opportunity, the provision of valuation advice and to determine that it was in the best interest of its shareholders.
These meetings are Independence of Directors excluded from the numbers listed above.
In accordance with the AIC Code, the Board has reviewed the independent status of each individual Director and the Board as a Board evaluation whole.
In the Boards opinion, all Directors are considered to be As a FTSE 250 Company, the Board is required to be externally independent of the Portfolio Manager and the AIFM and free from evaluated at least every three years.
An external board evaluation any business or other relationship that could materially interfere company, Lintstock Limited, undertook the first Board evaluation in with the exercise of his or her independent judgement.
The Directors are aware that they need continually to monitor and improve performance, and recognise this can be achieved Care will be taken at all times to ensure that the Board is composed of through regular Board evaluation, which provides a valuable feedback members who, as a whole, have the required knowledge, abilities mechanism for improving Board effectiveness.
and experience to properly fulfil their role and are independent.
46 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Board training and induction The Portfolio Manager provides detailed reports on marketing to The Company Secretary, or the Portfolio Manager upon request shareholders, feedback received from the Woodford website and calls of the Board, will offer induction training to new Directors about the made by the Portfolio Manager to shareholders.
Company, its key service providers, the Directors duties and Stewardship responsibilities and the use of voting rights obligations and other matters as may be relevant from time to time.
The FRC introduced a Stewardship Code that sets out the The Board members are encouraged to keep up to date and attend responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of training courses on matters that are directly relevant to their investee companies.
The Company is a member of the Under this, managers should: AIC and the Directors have taken advantage of various webinars, publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their meetings and conferences organised by the AIC in the furtherance stewardship responsibilities to their clients: of their training.
The Directors also receive regular briefings from, disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: among others, the auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any monitor their investee companies: proposed developments or changes in laws or regulations that could establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: affect them or the Company.
be willing to act collectively with other investors where Board appointment, election and tenure appropriate: The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and the record: and Companies Act 2006. report to clients.
None of the Directors consider length of service as an impediment to The Portfolio Manager recognises that one of the important independence or good judgement but, if they felt this had become obligations that it has, as the steward of the Companys underlying the case, the relevant Director would stand down.
shares and securities, is the right to vote on issues submitted to shareholders.
These issues may include the election of Directors The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set out on and other important matters that affect the structure of the investee pages 31 to 33.
As the Company is within the FTSE 250, each of the company.
Woodford recognises its fiduciary responsibility to its Directors will put themselves forward for re-election on an annual clients and the Woodford investment team will consider proxy voting basis, with the exception of Alan Hodson who is stepping down from papers, supported by independent providers, ahead of making the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
Following the annual Board evaluation, the Board believes that it is The Portfolio Manager considers its position on all major proxy voting in the best interest of shareholders that each of the Directors be issues, is responsible for all elections, and a record of the election is re-elected at the forthcoming AGM.
Woodford has retained the services of Institutional Voting Information Service IVIS, a leading provider of Conflicts of interest corporate governance research.
IVIS outlines a number of best The Articles of Association provide that the Directors may authorise practice guidelines that cover corporate governance and share any actual or potential conflict of interest that a Director may have, with capital management.
or without imposing any conditions that they consider appropriate on the Director.
Directors are not able to vote in respect of any contract, The Portfolio Manager considers the advice and recommendations arrangement or transaction in which they have a material interest and, made by IVIS in reaching a proxy voting decision.
However, it is the in such circumstances, they are not counted in the quorum.
A process responsibility of the Woodford investment team to decide how to has been developed to identify any of the Directors potential or actual vote and it may choose not to follow the advice provided by a third conflicts of interest.
This includes declaring any potential new party.
Woodfords default position is to vote with management.
conflicts before the start of each Board meeting.
A schedule is Woodford manages the proxy voting process via ProxyEdge, a maintained of each Board members potential conflicts of interest.
platform provided by Broadridge Financial Solutions.
The system manages the process of notifications, voting, tracking, mailing, Company Secretary reporting and record maintenance.
ProxyEdge provides proxy Link Company Matters Limited provide company secretarial services information through an automated electronic interface based on to the Board and are responsible for ensuring that the Board and share positions provided directly to Broadridge by Woodford back Committee procedures are followed and that the Board complies with office or directly from the clients custodian, bank or broker-dealer.
Woodford Investment Management Limited provide administrative support to the Chairman.
Relations with shareholders All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person Review of shareholder profile or by proxy, at the AGM.
The notice of the AGM sets out the business The Board reviews reports produced by the Company's broker, of the meeting and any item not of an entirely routine nature is Winterflood, together with detailed analysis produced by Equiniti on explained in the Directors report.
Separate resolutions are proposed the shareholder base and underlying beneficial owners.
The Board in respect of each substantive issue.
receives direct reports from Winterflood on feedback from shareholders.
In addition, the Chairman regularly makes herself Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to participate in available to meet with institutional shareholders.
The Chairman of the Board and the Directors, together with representatives of the Portfolio Manager, will be available to answer shareholders questions at the AGM.
Proxy voting figures are available to shareholders at the AGM.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 47 Corporate governance statement CONTINUED During the year the Chairman met with a number of major shareholders without the Portfolio Manager present and also receives direct feedback on shareholder views from the Companys broker.
The Portfolio Manager also holds regular discussions with major shareholders, the feedback from which is provided to and greatly valued by the Board.
The Directors are available to enter into dialogue and correspondence with shareholders regarding the progress and performance of the Company.
During the year, the Chairman met with a number of major shareholders.
Further information about the Company can be found on the Companys section of the Portfolio Managers website: woodfordfunds.
Internal control review The Directors are responsible for the systems of internal control relating to the Company and the reliability of the financial reporting process, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Directors have reviewed and considered the FRC publications 'Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control, and Related Financial and, Business Reporting' published in September 2014, and 'Guidance on Audit Committees' published in April 2016.
An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
This process, together with key procedures established with a view to providing effective financial control, was in place during the year under review and at the date of the signing of this report.
The internal control systems are designed to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, that the financial information on which business decisions are made and which are issued for publication is reliable and that the assets of the Company are safeguarded.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors have carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Company's risk management and internal control systems as they have operated over the period and up to the date of approval of the report and financial statements.
There were no matters arising from this review that required further investigation and no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
The Company has established a risk matrix consisting of the key risks and controls in place to mitigate those risks.
Details of the Companys risks can be found on pages 26 and 27 of the Directors report, together with an explanation of the robust controls that have been established to manage each risk.
Financial risks are explained in note 22 on pages 76 to 81.
The risk matrix provides a basis for the Audit Committee and the Board to regularly monitor the effective operation of the controls and to update the matrix when new risks are identified.
During the year the Company has assessed the risk posed by Brexit and updated the matrix accordingly.
Most functions for the day-to-day management of the Company are sub-contracted, and the Directors therefore obtain regular assurances and information from key third-party suppliers regarding the internal systems and controls operated in their organisations.
In addition, each of the third parties is requested to provide a copy of its report on internal controls each year, which is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
During the period under review, the Board has not identified any significant failings or weaknesses in the internal control systems of its service providers.
48 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
