Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Corporate governance report Chairmans governance statement I am pleased to introduce on behalf of the Board, Morrisons Corporate governance report for the financial year 2017 18 Andrew Higginson, Chairman As we Fix, Rebuild and Grow Morrisons, a robust and effective Colleague voice at the Board governance framework allows our colleagues the agility and flexibility Throughout Morrisons we have a culture of listening hard and responding for improvements to be made to every aspect of the Group.
This culture also extends to our Board.
We continue to make good progress in the Groups turnaround and Board members have met hundreds of Morrisons colleagues through this is reflected in improving like-for-like sales, customer satisfaction the various functional updates, store and site visits and personal shopping and colleague engagement.
This governance framework ensures that experiences.
The Board also receives updates on the Your Say survey our key stakeholders are put at the heart of all decisions we make in which three-quarters of colleagues within Morrisons have shared their to drive long-term value creation for all.
More information on the Your Say survey Board effectiveness can be found in our colleagues section on page 14.
The national Your Say forum, which includes a representative from each store region, The Board and management team continue to work well together.
manufacturing site and distribution centre, gathers twice a year to discuss The Board draws on the Directors range of experience, knowledge issues that are important to the colleagues they represent.
David Potts, and skills to help Fix, Rebuild and Grow Morrisons for all stakeholders.
along with other senior members of the Groups management team, We are delighted to welcome Tony van Kralingen and Kevin Havelock have been in attendance to discuss colleague views.
Tony van Kralingen to the Board.
Both Tony and Kevin bring a wealth of experience from will be attending these forums throughout 2018 19. the fastmoving consumer goods industry.
Tony has spent much of his induction period listening to shareholders and other stakeholders to Engagement with shareholders help guide his approach as Chair of our Remuneration Committee.
We take the opinions of all our stakeholders very seriously, and as such, Kevin joined the Board on 1 February 2018 and has started his we continue to focus on engagement with our shareholders.
appointment, Tony van Kralingen has begun a comprehensive shareholder An external review of the effectiveness of our Board was undertaken engagement programme and has personally spoken with holders by Consilium Board Review during the Summer.
This review found that representing over 42% of Morrisons current register.
the Board has a well-balanced set of capabilities: and that governance and In such a competitive industry, we have and continue to make tough compliance is strong.
The review provided the relatively newly established decisions every day.
The Board and the Group will continue to listen Board an opportunity to reflect on its effectiveness and as such many hard to our stakeholders and respond quickly where we can.
insightful and helpful suggestions were made that are in the process of being implemented.
Andrew Higginson Chairman Diversity We truly value diversity and a culture of inclusion across our colleague base, and the Board itself.
A broad range of skills, experience and knowledge is required in our Group as this is invaluable to the improvements we will continue to make.
The Board continues to meet the Groups policy to maintain female representation at not less than 20%.
At the end of the financial year, 22% of the total Board composition was female.
27 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Corporate governance report continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website, The Board considers that its corporate governance www.
uk policies and procedures are appropriate and that The Boards corporate governance compliance statement sets out the Group has applied the principles and, save as how the Group complies with each of the provisions of the Code.
described below regarding the 2017 AGM results, It is available in the investor relations section of the Groups website, complied with the detailed provisions of the 2016 www.
com UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Compliance with the remuneration areas of the Code are covered throughout the financial year 2017 18 and to the in the Directors remuneration report which can be found on page 38. date of this Annual Report.
Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Relations with shareholders The role of the Board The Boards composition Training and development Financial and business reporting Shareholder engagement with shareholders to understand the reasons behind this voting result, and further details The Board met eight times in the year which is The majority of the Board comprises Induction programmes are agreed by the The way the Group generates value and the The Board is committed to communicating the of this engagement are set out on page 39 considered sufficient to fulfil its duties.
The Non-Executive Chairman for each new Non-Executive Directors Boards strategy for delivering the Groups strategy to analysts, investors and shareholders of this years Directors remuneration report.
of attendance at each Board and Committee Directors bring a varied range of skills and appointment.
objectives is described in the Business model on a regular basis through a planned programme.
meeting is provided on page 30. experience to the Group.
Details of their on pages 2 to 3, and our six priorities section The Chairman assesses the development needs The Investor Relations programme includes: Use of the AGM experience outside the Group are set out on pages 8 to 9.
The information regarding the The formal schedule of matters reserved for the of members of the Board on an annual basis.
formal presentations of full and half year results: in their respective biographies on page 30.
Takeover Directive disclosures are on page 52.
The 2018 AGM will be held on 14 June 2018 atthe Board remains unaltered from 2016 17 and is set trading statements: The consideration of going concern is described Groups headquarters at Gain Lane, inBradford.
out in the corporate governance compliance The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Provision of information and support on page 52.
The viability statement is on page 26. statement which can be found in the investor Directors, including the Non-Executive Chairman, regular meetings between institutional investors, The whole Board is expected to attend and be The Chairman, supported by the Company relations section of the Groups website, remain independent according to the definition the CEO, the CFO and the Investor Relations available to answer any questions shareholders Secretary, ensures that the Board receive Risk management and internal control systems www.
com contained in the Code.
The criteria used to team in the UK and overseas following the full may have.
determine independence are set out in the The Board is satisfied with the effectiveness of and half year results: Notice of the 2018 AGM of the Group is to be Each Director has access to the advice and services corporate governance compliance statement, internal control and that risk is being managed Division of responsibilities regular meetings between the Chairman and sent to shareholders with an accompanying letter of the Company Secretary.
They may also take which can be found in the investor relations effectively across the Group.
More information major shareholders to discuss any aspect from the Chairman.
The format of the meeting is: The Board is committed to a clear division of external advice at the Groups expense in relation section of the Groups website, can be found on page 36. of the Group or its governance arrangements: responsibilities between the Chairman and the to their duties.
a summary presentation of results is provided www.
This has been reviewed by the attending key investor conferences: before the Chairman deals with the formal Role and responsibility of the Audit Committee Board during the year and is also set out in the Board and committee performance business: communication between the Chairman Directors interests The role and responsibility of the Audit Committee corporate governance compliance statement.
and evaluation of the Remuneration Committee and all shareholders present can put questions to The interests of the Executive and Non-Executive is outlined in the Board structure on page 33. major shareholders on remuneration policy An external assessment of the Board was facilitated the Chairman, Chairmen of the Committees, Directors of the Group, and their immediate The Chairman The Board is satisfied that Belinda Richards and significant changes in remuneration by Consilium Board Review during the year.
and the Board during the meeting and families, in the shares of the Group, along with has recent and relevant financial experience arrangements: Andrew Higginson met the independence criteria Consilium Board Review does not have any other informally afterwards: share options, are contained in the Directors appropriate to her position as Chair of the detailed in the Code on appointment.
responding to enquiries from shareholders and remuneration report set out on pages 38 to 51. the Board encourages participation of Audit Committee.
Belinda is considered to have analysts through the Investor Relations team: and At no time during the year did any of the Directors The outcomes of this assessment can be found individual investors at the AGM: and sufficient financial experience, having been a Senior Independent Director have a material interest in any significant contract on page 34. dedicated shareholder and investor sections corporate finance partner at Deloitte for over ten following the meeting, details of the voting Rooney Anand was appointed as the Senior with the Group or any of its subsidiaries.
Additionally, she serves on the Advisory on the resolutions will be made available on Independent Director on 1 January 2016 when Re-election of Directors Group of the Audit Committee Chairmen at the the website www.
com In addition, the Investor Relations team provides he joined the Board.
Rooney has extensive Board appointments All the current Directors submit themselves for Financial Reporting Council and is a member of the investor-centre  a regular update to the Board and feedback from knowledge of the retail and fast moving The Nomination Committee leads the process re-election at the AGM to be held on 14 June 2018.
Governing Council of the Centre for the Study of generalmeetings meetings held between executive management consumer goods industries.
More information on Financial Innovation.
After reviewing the outcome of performance and institutional shareholders.
The Groups brokers The Directors recommend shareholders vote The Senior Independent Director provides this Committee can be found on pages 33 and 37. evaluations, the Board confirms that the seek independent feedback from analysts and in favour of each resolution, believing them shareholders with an alternative contact contributions made by the Directors offering investors following the full and half year results to be in the best interests of the Group.
The Nomination Committee considers that the to the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the themselves for election or re-election at the AGM meetings which is reported to the Board.
Shareholders will be notified of the availability Board and Executive Committee contain the skills Chief Financial Officer.
The Senior Independent in June 2018, continue to be effective and that the of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and experience necessary in light of the Groups Director also carried out the Chairmans Group supports their re-election.
on the website unless they have elected to current activities and strategic direction.
At last years AGM, our 2017 Directors The Chairman arranges regular discussions Time commitments remuneration report was approved with 52% of between all the Non-Executive Directors The minimum time commitment expected of the votes cast in favour.
As our Chairman explained including himself as a group without the Non-Executive Directors is 12 days per year, in a press statement issued shortly following the management present.
including attendance at the Annual General announcement of the results of last years AGM, Meeting AGM, Board meetings and site visits, we had consulted widely with shareholders before plus adequate preparation time.
the AGM on our new remuneration policy, which received strong support with more than 92% The Board is satisfied that each of the of the votes cast in favour.
We were therefore Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient surprised not to get a higher vote in favour of the time to the business of the Group and contributes 2017 Directors remuneration report.
When we to the governance and operations of the Group.
announced the results of last years AGM we did This has been confirmed by the external Board not expressly state, in accordance with the Code, effectiveness assessment referred to on page 34. the actions we intended to take to understand the reasons behind the vote result.
Needless to say, however, since the appointment of Tony van Kralingen as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, we subsequently engaged extensively 28 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Relations with shareholders The role of the Board The Boards composition Training and development Financial and business reporting Shareholder engagement with shareholders to understand the reasons behind this voting result, and further details The Board met eight times in the year which is The majority of the Board comprises Induction programmes are agreed by the The way the Group generates value and the The Board is committed to communicating the of this engagement are set out on page 39 considered sufficient to fulfil its duties.
Needless to say, however, since the appointment of Tony van Kralingen as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, we subsequently engaged extensively 29
