Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Audit Committee Report Risk Committee continued Annual Auditor assessment Risk management and internal control Role of the Risk Committee Annually, the Committee assess the qualifications, expertise, The Audit Committee has a key role in ensuring appropriate The Risk Committees responsibilities include, but are not limited to, resources, and independence of the Groups External Auditors, governance and challenge around risk management.
It also sets the The the following: Workspace as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
It does this through tone and culture within the organisation regarding risk management Advantage To drive and co-ordinate Workspace policy and procedure and discussion with the Chief Financial Officer and confirmations from and internal control.
training in relation to risk management.
To promote and communicate risk management awareness, Key elements of the Groups system of internal control include: both financial and non-financial throughout the organisation.
Helping to deliver As the financial year ended 31 March 2018 is KPMGs first as External A comprehensive system of financial reporting.
To challenge Executive Directors review and appraisal of risk.
The Workspace Advantage: Auditor, an assessment on external audit effectiveness will be An organisational and management Board structure with clearly To co-ordinate and manage a planned annual programme of completed later in 2018, when sufficient time has passed with KPMG defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities.
review and testing of risks and controls aligned to requirements.
The Committee will consider aspects such as KPMGs A Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer By constantly assessing and To oversee and advise the Board on the current risk exposures experience and expertise, the extent to which the audit plan had been and is attended by representatives from Senior Management and managing the risks to our operations of the Company and future risk strategy.
met and the content of its audit reports.
and strategy, the Risk Committee To consider the Viability Statement and the related sensitivity ensures that the business analysis and report to the Audit Committee.
As part of its deliberations, the Committee reviews a report on the The Risk Committee formally reports to the Audit Committee at least can continue to deliver The To engage internal or external resources for the review and audit firms own internal quality control procedures together with the twice a year on strategic and key operational risks, emerging issues Workspace Advantage.
testing of risks and processes as agreed in the annual plan, policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring and any internal control review work undertaken.
To co-ordinate reports and papers for the Board and Audit The Group aims to continuously strengthen its risk management Committee as required.
KPMG LLP has confirmed to the Committee that: processes through the involvement of the Audit Committee to ensure Jamie Hopkins To consider any developments in the external environment The audit of the consolidated financial statements is undertaken these processes are embedded throughout the organisation.
The Chairman of the or regulation, which may impact on risk considerations.
in accordance with the UK Firms internal policies and procedures Audit Committee has reviewed the Groups system of controls Risk Committee to ensure the objectivity of its audit report.
including financial, operational, compliance and risk management Composition of the Committee It has internal procedures in place to identify any aspects of during the year with no significant failings or weaknesses identified.
Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer.
non-audit work which could compromise its role as auditors and However, any such system can only provide reasonable and not Chris Pieroni, Operations Director.
to ensure the objectivity of its audit report.
absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
It believes that, in their professional judgement, the safeguards Vivienne Frankham, Head of Finance.
they have in place sufficiently guard against the threats to Further information on the Groups risks is detailed on pages 46 to 56.
Whistleblowing Activities in 2017 18 Claire Dracup, Head of Support Services.
Consequently, KPMG consider that it has maintained its auditor The Group has a whistleblowing procedure through which Reviewed and discussed the strategic risks for circulation to the Tom Rahman, Head of IT Operations.
employees may report, in confidence and anonymously if preferred, Audit Committee and for inclusion in the Annual Report.
concerns about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing in any matters The Risk Committee is chaired by Jamie Hopkins.
Furthermore, on the request of the Audit Committee, the views of key affecting the business.
No matters were reported during the year.
Considered the operational risk registers for each functional area members of the finance team were sought on the handover process and agreed any changes.
In addition, employees from across the business, specifically centre from PwC, the outgoing External Auditor.
It was confirmed that Code of Conduct managers, attend meetings of the Committee, by invitation, where KPMG had carried out a smooth handover process.
The Group has a Code of Conduct which explains how employees are Received presentations from Senior Management, concerning they are asked to share any information which they feel is relevant, expected to fulfil their responsibilities by acting in the best interests of controls over certain parts of the business or specific risks.
in order to assist the Committee in evaluating possible risks to The Committee are satisfied that the Auditors are independent.
This includes compliance with laws and regulations: acting the Company.
fairly in dealing with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders: Agreed an annual internal control review programme, which is also treating people with respect and operating within a control circulated to the Audit Committee.
The following also attended meetings of the Committee during framework.
the year, again by invitation, in order to discuss their risk registers Discussed cyber security risks and agreed to include it as a distinct and to contribute to the discussions relating to their respective Chris Girling item in the risk register.
areas of expertise: Chairman of the Audit Committee Chief Financial Officer.
5 June 2018 Discussed changes in the regulatory environment and likely impact Development Director.
Discussed the implications of the GDPR and the ongoing compliance programme.
5 The Risk Committee met five times during the year ended 31 March 2018 110Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
