Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Nomination Committee Report continued Members of the Committee Skills and knowledge of the Board All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive A key responsibility of the Committee is to ensure that the Board Directors, with each bringing a wealth of commercial experience, maintains a balance of skills, knowledge and experience appropriate across a range of industries.
The Committee is responsible for to the operation of the business and required to deliver the strategy.
keeping its composition under review and for making The Committee is satisfied that the Board continues to have an Accountability recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
appropriate mix of skills and experience to operate effectively.
In addition, the Directors collectively have many years of experience, The Chairman of the Board chairs all meetings of the Committee all gained from a broad range of businesses.
They bring a range of unless a matter relates to the Chairman, in which case the Senior expertise and knowledge of different business sectors to Board Independent Director SID is invited to take the Chair.
deliberations, which encourage constructive and challenging debate around the Boardroom table.
How the Committee operates The Committee met formally on two occasions, primarily to progress The Board experience by sector is illustrated on page 101. succession planning and to discuss the annual re-election of Directors and the reappointment of Maria Moloney, approval of which was Diversity granted by the Board in March 2018.
The Board recognises the importance of diversity, both in its membership and in the Groups employees.
The Board understands The meetings are usually held immediately prior to, or following a the rationale for, and has followed the discourse on, quotas to achieve Board Meeting, though the Committee also meets on other occasions diversity.
Its policy on diversity is that selection should be based on on an ad hoc basis, as required.
the best person for the role, and to ensure that its composition is diverse and has an appropriate balance of skills, experience and Transparency Only members of the Committee have the right to attend meetings.
requisite knowledge to successfully deliver the Groups strategy.
However, an invitation to attend meetings is, on occasion, extended The benefits of diversity, including gender and ethnic diversity, to the Chief Executive Officer, in order that the Committee can will continue to be an active consideration whenever changes and effective understand his views, particularly on key talent within the business.
to the Boards composition are contemplated.
Appointments to the Board Further details on diversity can be found on pages 124 and 135. risk management The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the The gender diversity of the Board and Company is set out below.
Company and comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors.
As the need arises, the Committee is assisted by external search consultants.
The Committee ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and The Board transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors, with Male 6 the first step being a detailed evaluation of the current composition of the Board, taking into account the balance of skills, experience, Female 1 knowledge and diversity.
Senior Management The Committee then prepares a candidate specification for approval Male 14 by the Board.
Female 10 There has been no Board Director recruitment activity for the year under review.
All employees Chris Girling Male 129 Independence and re-election to the Board Chairman of the As at 31 March 2018, the Board comprises the Chairman, two Audit Committee Female 97 Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The biographies of all members of the Board outlining the experience they bring to their roles are set out on page 80 and pages 84 to 90.
Non-Executive appointments and time commitments The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts taken Going Concern and Viability Statement In making recommendations to the Board on Non-Executive Director as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the Going Concern disclosures are included alongside the Viability The composition of the Board is reviewed annually by the Nomination appointments, the Nomination Committee will consider the expected information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys Statement on page 57.
time commitment from the proposed Non-Executive Director, and performance, business model and strategy.
other commitments they already have to ensure that they have Takeover directive The Committee conducted a review of the independence of Maria sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
The Groups strategy and business model can be found on pages 16 Share capital structures are included in the Directors Report Moloney in the year as she reached the end of her current three-year and 28.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the on page 136. term in May 2018.
Maria was not present during the Committees Prior to accepting any additional commitments, Non-Executive financial statements is set out on page 139. discussion.
Having conducted its review, the Committee was satisfied Directors will discuss the details with the Chairman.
Agreement of Audit Committee and Auditors that it was appropriate to recommend to the Board that Marias the Board is then required to ensure that any conflicts of interest are Internal control and risk management The Audit Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive appointment should be extended for a further three years.
identified and that they will continue to have sufficient time available The Board reviewed the Groups system of internal controls and risk Directors.
It met three times during the year under review, with to devote to the Company.
Processes and procedures have meetings organised around the Companys reporting schedule.
Further details on the independence of Directors and their re-election been established to enable the Directors to report on the effectiveness can be found on page 98 and on page 3 of the 2018 AGM Notice Corporate Governance of internal controls in compliance with the Code.
These processes and Chris Girling, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, has been of Meeting.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Terms of Reference for procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and management of the determined by the Board to have relevant financial experience the Nomination Committee.
There were no significant changes made key risks to the Group.
Further details are contained in the principal as required by the Code.
In accordance with the Code, all the Directors will retire and offer to the existing Terms of Reference.
These can be found on our risks and uncertainties section on page 46. themselves for re-election by shareholders at the 2018 Annual website at www.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with its External General Meeting.
An assessment of the principal risks facing the Company is set out Auditors, with no Company management present.
on pages 46 to 56 and key performance indicators are on pages 35 Further biographical information on each of our Directors can be and 40.
Further details on the work of the Audit Committee can be found found on pages 84 to 90. in the Audit Committee Report on pages 104 to 110.
Details of the composition of the Audit Committee are set out on page 105.
102Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
