Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder Role of the Committee On behalf of the Committee, welcome to the Report of the The Nomination Committee considers the structure, size and Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Whilst composition of the Board.
It regularly reviews the balance, skills there have been no changes to the Board during the financial year, and experience of the Board, advising on succession planning and the Nomination Committee has continued to support the Board in The making appropriate recommendations to ensure that the Board Workspace ensuring its composition has the right balance of skills, experience, Advantage is appropriately balanced to support the Groups strategy.
It is independence and knowledge to support the business and to fulfil responsible for reviewing the Groups senior leadership needs the Boards responsibility to Shareholders.
and leads on the process for Board appointments.
Helping to deliver The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Composition of the Committee The Workspace Advantage: Reference, which are reviewed annually and approved by the Board.
These are available on the Companys website at www.
The right balance of skills, The key objective of the Committee is to regularly review the skills Damon Russell.
knowledge and experience on the and experience of the Board and to ensure that it is of the right size, Board and Executive Committee structure and composition.
The Committee plays a vital role in For full biographies, see pages 86 to 90. help us to deliver The Workspace ensuring that Workspace is headed by a Board which is collectively Advantage to all our stakeholders.
responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
We continue Attendance to focus on the need to ensure that there are no gaps in the skills or Mar May experience as members of the Board reach the end of their relevant 2018 2017 terms.
In doing so, last year we stated that as a general principle, Daniel Kitchen new Non-Executive Directors would join the Board two years prior to existing members reaching the end of their relevant term.
This will Stephen Hubbard ensure that the evolution of the Boards membership is planned and 1 Maria Moloney properly managed.
This approach will continue to be the focus of the Daniel Kitchen Chris Girling Committee as it considers the mix and diversity of skills and experience Chairman of the that will be required of prospective Board members in the context Damon Russell Nomination Committee of the Groups mediumand long-term strategy.
Meeting attended The length of tenure of our Non-Executive Directors is contained on page 133.
Maria Moloney did not attend the meeting in March 2018, as the business of the meeting was in relation to her reappointment as a Director of the Company.
During the year, changes were made to the membership of the Executive Committee.
We regularly consider the depth and Directors tenure as at 31 March 2018 experience on the Executive Committee and, as a result, in October 2017, we approved the internal promotion of John Robson to the role Executive Directors of Asset Management Director.
John has worked for the Company since May 2008 and his biography can be found on page 92.
Jamie Hopkins Graham Clemett Looking forward Looking forward to 2018, the Committee will continue with its review Senior Independent Director of succession plans in the context of the Groups strategy and to 2 Chris Girling ensure an orderly and progressive evolution of the Boards membership.
The Committee meets as required and did so on two occasions Nomination Committee activities in 2017 18 Non-Executive Chairman during the year ended 31 March 2018.
Daniel Kitchen Daniel Kitchen Chairman of the Nomination Committee Reviewed the composition of the Board and its Committees.
Non-Executive Directors 5 June 2018 1 Maria Moloney Remit of the Nomination Committee Agreed the extension to the letter of appointment for Damon Russell Reviewing the structure, size and composition, including the skills, Maria Moloney.
Board experience knowledge, independence, experience and diversity of the Board, Stephen Hubbard 1.
8. and making recommendations with regard to any changes.
Reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference.
Construction 12% Reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process Considered and recommended the re-election of each 4.
Telecoms and media 12% that relate to the composition of the Board.
Initial term Second term Duration of current term 5.
Considering succession planning for Directors and other senior Received updates from the Chief Executive Officer on Appointed Non-Executive Director in June 2010 and Chief Executive Ocer 7.
Executives, to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
succession planning for the Executive Committee and Senior in April 2012.
Appointed Chief Financial Ocer in July 2007.
Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and independence on 1.
Maria Moloneys second term expired in May 2018.
On the recommendation of the Board and, in light of this evaluation, preparing a description of the Nomination Committee, the Board agreed to extend her term to May 2021.
5. the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment and 3. its expected time commitment.
For dates of letters of appointment and unexpired terms for 4.
For details of Executive Directors service contracts, see page 133.
