Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Executive Committee Role of the Executive Committee Composition of the Executive Committee 3 1 The Executive Committee is responsible for the successful 1.
Jamie Hopkins implementation of the Companys strategy and for the operational Chief Executive Officer performance of the Group.
It reviews the effectiveness of our Specific responsibilities governance, financial and risk management processes to ensure Strategic management: investor relations: day-to-day operations: 4 5 that they are embedded within the Group.
acquisitions and disposals: health and safety: staff: equal opportunities: remuneration: training and development: Chairman 2 of the Executive, Investment and Risk Committees: and development of the brand.
Graham Clemett Chief Financial Officer Specific responsibilities Finance: treasury: tax: company secretarial, governance and compliance: investor relations: and information technology.
Chris Pieroni Operations Director Specific responsibilities Corporate and business development: marketing: and new business initiatives.
Background and relevant experience Chris joined the Group as Operations Director in October 2007.
Prior to joining Workspace, he worked at KPMG specialising in real estate and infrastructure finance.
He began his professional career teaching economics at Cambridge University.
Chris was a Non-Executive Director of the Group from 2000 until his retirement from the Board in August 2006.
Chris was Chairman of the Business Centre 21 Association from 20142016.
Angus Boag 21 times during the year Development Director ended 31 March 2018 Specific responsibilities Planning consents: redevelopment and refurbishment projects: joint ventures: valuations: sustainability and environmental strategy: and project management.
Background and relevant experience Activities in 2017 18 Angus joined the Group in June 2007 as Development Director.
Developing the Group strategy and budget for approval by the He has expertise in property and construction management, and Board.
is responsible for adding value to the Groups assets through planning consents, development and joint ventures.
Angus also manages all Monitoring of operational and financial results against plans and construction across the portfolio and has responsibility for the budgets.
The Executive Team The Pill Box Considering regulatory developments and the GDPR compliance pictured at The Pill Box A 50,000 sq.
in Bethnal Green that sits in our Asset Management Director 1.
Jamie Hopkins like-for-like portfolio and Specific responsibilities Reviewing and approving capital expenditure within the authorities Chief Executive Officer continues to perform well.
Asset management of the portfolio, including lettings, lease renewals, delegated by the Board.
A former pharmaceutical refurbishments and facilities management.
Graham Clemett factory, Workspace carried Collectively responsible for the day-to-day running of the business.
Chief Financial Officer out a full refurbishment of the Background and relevant experience property in 2013, creating a John joined Workspace in May 2008 as an Asset Manager.
John was Developing leadership skills and the future talent of the business 3.
Chris Pieroni fantastic space for creative promoted to Head of Asset Management in February 2013 and Asset so that strong succession plans are in place as the Group develops.
Operations Director businesses, with an awardManagement Director in October 2017.
Prior to joining Workspace, winning caf, co-working space, John qualified as a chartered surveyor and worked for Legal & Analysing and reviewing initiatives of particular interest to the 4.
Angus Boag roof terrace looking over the city General Investment Management, London Merchant Securities and Company and presenting these to the Board as appropriate.
Development Director and a gym in the basement.
Ensuring the effectiveness of risk management and control 5.
Asset Management Director 92Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
