Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Executive Directors Jamie joined the Board in Graham joined the Board June 2010 as a Non-Executive as Chief Financial Officer Director and was appointed in July 2007.
Chief Executive Officer on 1 April 2012.
Committee memberships Member of the Committee memberships Executive Committee, Chairman of the Investment Committee and Executive Committee, Disclosure Committee.
Investment Committee, Risk Committee and Current external appointments Disclosure Committee.
Graham is currently a NonExecutive Director and Chairman Current external appointments of the Audit Committee for The Jamie was appointed as Restaurant Group Plc, having Non-Executive Director to the been appointed on 1 June 2016.
Board of St. Modwen Properties PLC with effect from 1 March 2018.
Previous appointments Previously, Graham was Finance Previous appointments Director for UK Corporate Jamie was previously Chief Banking at RBS Group PLC.
Executive and then a NonPrior to that, Graham spent eight Executive Director of Mapeley years at Reuters Group PLC, PLC, and a Director of Chester latterly as Group Financial Properties.
Prior to that, Jamie Controller.
was a Director of Delancey Estates and Savills.
Skills and business experience Significant experience of Skills and business experience financing and capital raising.
Strategic development and With over ten years in the deal execution experience.
Group, he has a detailed Well-developed leadership, knowledge of operations.
motivational and management Strong strategic and skills.
Entrepreneurial with strong Strong experience of investor commercial skills.
Strong experience of investor relations.
The Workspace Advantage The Workspace Advantage is about the added value is the backbone to our strategy we provide to customers and provides a central focus for beyond the space they rent everyone within the business its about the flexibility, to work towards.
the technology and the communities we create.
Jamie Hopkins Graham Clemett Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 84Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Board continued Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Non-Executive Directors Daniel was appointed to the Chris was appointed to Board in June 2011 and the Board in February 2013. subsequently assumed the role On the recommendation of Chairman at the AGM in July of the Nomination Committee, 2011.
On the recommendation the Board agreed to extend of the Nomination Committee, his appointment for a further the Board agreed to extend his three years from February 2016. appointment for a further three years from June 2017.
Committee memberships Chairman of the Committee memberships Audit Committee.
Chairman of the Member of the Nomination Committee.
Remuneration Committee Member of the and Nomination Committee.
Current external appointments Current external appointments Chris, a Chartered Accountant, Daniel is currently Chairman is currently a Non-Executive of Hibernia REIT plc and Director and Chairman of the Applegreen plc, a Non-Executive Audit Committee of both Keller Director of LXB Retail Properties PLC and South East Water Plc, Irish Takeover Panel Limited Limited.
He is Chair of Trustees and Governor of St Patrick for the Slaughter and May Hospital in Dublin.
Previous appointments Previous appointments Daniel was previously Deputy Chris was Group Finance Chief Executive at Heron Director of Carillion PLC from International plc and prior to 1999 to 2007 and Vosper that was Finance Director at Thornycroft PLC from 1991 Green Property Plc for eight to 1999. years.
He retired as NonExecutive Chairman of Irish Skills and business experience Nationwide Building Society in CFO of FTSE 250 Companies July 2011 and as Non-Executive for 17 years.
Director of Kingspan Group Plc Strong financial skills.
Detailed knowledge of risk assessment and Skills and business experience management systems.
Detailed knowledge Experience of infrastructure of the Group.
Strong financial skills, previously a CFO for eight years for a property development and investment company.
Experience of acquisitions The Workspace Advantage The Workspace Advantage and disposals.
uniquely positions us in our is about providing a great marketplace and is delivering working environment to results across the business.
D Da an ni ie el K l Ki it tc ch he en n Chris Girling N No on n- -E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five C e Ch ha aiir rm ma an a n an nd d Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and C Ch ha aiir rm ma an o n of t f th he N e No om miin na at tiio on C n Co om mm miit tt te ee e Chairman of the Audit Committee 86Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Board continued Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Non-Executive Directors Maria was appointed to the Damon was appointed to the continued Board in May 2012.
On the recommendation of the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Board agreed to extend her Board agreed to extend his appointment for a further appointment for a further three three years from May 2018. years from May 2016.
Committee memberships Committee memberships Chairman of the Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Committee, Member of the Audit Committee and Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
Current external appointments Current external appointments Damon holds advisory roles for Maria is currently on the Board a number of smaller companies and a Trustee of the Northern in the digital media, sport and Ireland Cancer Centre in Belfast.
He is currently Chairman of New Telecom Previous appointments Express Group, an interactive Maria was previously on the media service provider he Board of the Belfast Harbour co-founded in 1989.
Telecom Commissioners, the Industrial Express was sold to AMV BBDO, Development Board for part of the Omnicom Group, in Northern Ireland, the Northern 1998.
In 2004, Damon led a Ireland Transport Holdings successful management buyout.
Company, the Independent He has almost 30 years Television Commission London experience in this fast-paced and and The Broadcasting Authority ever-evolving, dynamic industry.
Previous appointments Skills and business experience Damon was previously NonStrong marketing and Executive Director of iannounce commercial skills.
before its merger with A lawyer by background, with Legacy.
com in May 2013. significant legal and corporate governance experience.
Skills and business experience Business and strategy Extensive digital and media development.
Strategic business Strong strategic and assessments across diverse commercial understanding.
Significant experience in alliances, ventures and partnerships.
Knowledge of service-related The Workspace industry requirements and Advantage sums up our key client relationships.
Our unique in-house ethos: terrific locations marketing and operational to work in, up-to-the-minute platform, which enables direct technology, a great sense engagement with our of community and joinedcustomers, is a key up thinking all of which differentiator of The allows businesses to Workspace Advantage.
concentrate on what theyre here to do... thrive!
Maria Moloney Damon Russell Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 88Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Board continued Appointment to the Board Date appointed Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary Stephen was appointed to the Carmelina was appointed continued Board in July 2014.
On the Company Secretary recommendation of the in March 2010.
Nomination Committee, the Board agreed to extend his Responsibilities appointment for a further three Carmelina is Secretary to years from July 2017. the Board and its Committees, ensuring compliance with its Independent procedures and providing advice Yes.
At the direction of the Chairman, she is Committee memberships responsible for ensuring the Member of the Board receives accurate, timely Remuneration Committee, and relevant information.
She Audit Committee and also co-ordinates the induction Nomination Committee.
of new Board members and the provision of ongoing training and Current external appointments development of the Board.
Stephen is currently Chairman of CBRE UK.
He joined Richard Carmelinas other responsibilities Ellis in 1976 and held the position include: corporate governance, of Head of EMEA and UK Capital monitoring and compliance with Markets from 1998 to 2012. legislation, administration, vesting He is Non-Executive Chairman and granting of awards under of LXI REIT PLC and a member the Companys share schemes.
of the advisory board of Redevco, a pan-European Background and property holding company.
relevant experience Carmelina was previously Skills and business experience Group Company Secretary of Many years experience Electrocomponents plc.
She has of operating within the also worked in the construction property sector.
industry and for a consultancy Experience of regeneration firm offering company and development projects.
Detailed knowledge of risk assessment and management systems.
Workspace has a fantastic The Workspace Advantage culture with collaboration is providing exactly what at the heart of it.
This means Londons growing and vibrant all our people are focused economy needs: office space on delivering the Advantage on flexible terms in convenient to our customers locations with great amenities.
Stephen Hubbard Carmelina Carfora Non-Executive Director Company Secretary 90Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
