Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Workspace recognises the importance of active engagement with Workspace investor relations programme includes Shareholders in order to create a productive and regular dialogue the following activities: that is not solely limited to financial calendar events.
Investor roadshows The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme, The Executive Committee In addition to the results Relations with including regular engagement with investors, major institutions and engages with sell-side analysts presentations, which investors private client fund managers.
formally at the Full and Half Year and analysts attend, results presentations and at the management carry out investor Throughout the year, meetings are arranged, both proactively and annual Capital Markets Day.
All roadshows in the UK on request, for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and RNS announcements, including immediately after the Full Head of Corporate Communications with institutional Shareholders quarterly trading updates, are and Half Year results, generally Shareholders and sell-side analysts to discuss the Companys business model, sent to analysts throughout the spending four to five days on strategy and marketplace, as well as update on performance.
In addition, the Chief the road in London and These visits often include site visits which provide Shareholders Financial Officer and Head of Scotland.
Additional roadshows with valuable insight into the business.
The Chairman is also available Corporate Communications are are arranged during the year to meet with major Shareholders, independently of the Executive in regular dialogue with analysts to regional cities in the UK, Directors, as required.
as they update their models and Continental Europe and the US.
publish research on the The Groups investor website, www.
Why they are important holds all presentations made to analysts and investors for interim The roadshows give and full year results, as well as webcasts, and is also used as a means Why it is important Shareholders an opportunity to of providing additional sources of information for Shareholders.
The Sell-side analysts write meet with management one-onEngaging website is kept up-to-date with RNS announcements, share price independent research on one or in small groups to discuss performance and other news, as well as details of the Groups the Company, which is sent the results, business model and sustainability strategy and achievements.
to existing and prospective strategy, and raise any questions with Shareholders investors.
It is therefore they may have about the The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all Shareholders who important that analysts have Company and its performance.
It is also available in the investor section of up-to-date and accurate is a priority for the Companys website at www.
information on the business Frequency and its strategy in order to Two formal roadshows per During the year, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer present a fair view.
year, plus at least two further our business to and Head of Corporate Communications held over 135 meetings with roadshows arranged as UK and overseas institutional investors, comprising both current and Frequency necessary.
Meetings involved either group or individual Three formal meetings per year, ensure good presentations and, in some cases, tours of the portfolio.
The tours plus regular ongoing dialogue.
Webcasts provide a good opportunity to see the Groups properties, The Full and Half Year Results understand our strategy, and to meet customers, members of our presentations are streamed on understanding of our management team and centre staff.
the Companys website via a live webcast and made available for Twice a year, following the results roadshows, a detailed report is replays following the event.
collated for the Board, including feedback from investors and sell-side analysts.
This highlights Shareholders views on the Companys Why they are important performance, strategy and any concerns they have raised.
The webcasts allow analysts and investors to hear the Annual General Meeting management team present the The Directors use the occasion of the AGM to engage with results if they cannot attend the Shareholders, and it is an opportunity for Shareholders to ask event in person, and broaden the questions of the Chairman, members of the Board Committees and Companys reach to investors other Directors, both during the meeting and to meet informally based overseas.
Jamie Hopkins Frequency Chief Executive Officer Twice per year.
94Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
