Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chairmans governance statement continued Board performance evaluation Meeting our shareholders This year the Board benefited from the insights gained from an It is important that, as a Board, we listen to our shareholders and are external evaluation of its performance.
We appointed Advanced aware of their views on strategy and governance.
The Company has Boardroom Excellence Limited to facilitate the external Board continued to operate a comprehensive investor relations programme effectiveness review in March 2018, with a remit to consider the during the year, with our Executive Directors regularly meeting with Leadership way in which we carry out our role as Directors of Workspace and investors and analysts and feeding back to the Board.
I am available conduct ourselves in the boardroom, as well as the Boards structure to meet with investors on request and encourage an open dialogue and processes.
on all matters, including any points they may wish to discuss with respect to Board governance.
The review covered the Board, its Committees, individual Directors and the Company Secretary.
The review included interviews with General Data Protection Regulation GDPR each of the Directors, members of the Executive Committee and The implementation of GDPR in May 2018 has provided an added the Company Secretary.
The findings were reported back to me impetus to continue to evolve the controls and processes we have and the output was reviewed at the April 2018 Board Meeting.
in place on data protection.
As the business grows and adopts new practices and technologies, this will continue to be front of mind for I am pleased to confirm that no significant issues were raised, and the Board and the wider business.
the review confirmed that the Board and its Committees continue to operate in an efficient and effective manner.
I am pleased with the progress we have made this year across the governance agenda and trust that you will find this governance Further details of the recommendations can be found on page 99 report helpful and informative.
of the Corporate Governance Report.
We also extend our thanks to all of our shareholders for your Non-Executive Directors continued support as we look forward to delivering continued Strong direction I am satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are success in the years ahead.
standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, continue to be effective and show a high level of commitment to Daniel Kitchen from the Board their roles.
Non-Executive Chairman 5 June 2018 The independence of our Non-Executive Directors is extremely enables the important to us in maintaining good governance.
Each year, we particularly consider Stephen Hubbards independence as he is Chairman of CBRE UK and a member of their Management Board.
management team Following a rigorous assessment, the Board is completely satisfied that Stephen remains independent in judgement and character.
Further information can be found on page 98. to focus on delivering the Groups strategic objectives.
Daniel Kitchen Non-Executive Chairman 74Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Leadership continued Our Board The Board meets regularly and there is an annual cycle of topics Our governance framework, which is illustrated in the chart on The Board engaged with the Companys advisers during the year and Led by our Chairman, Daniel Kitchen, the Board provides the considered at meetings.
The Executive Directors provide regular page 76, supports the development of good governance practices there was a presentation from the Companys brokers in July 2017. leadership of the Company and is collectively responsible and updates to the Board on many aspects of the business, ranging from across the Group.
The Executive Committee has the responsibility The Groups Valuer, CBRE, presented to the Audit Committee meeting accountable to shareholders for the Companys long-term success, trading performance, progress being made on our refurbishment and for ensuring that the policies and practices set at Board level are in May 2018 and circulated a report to the meeting in November 2017. leadership, strategy, values, standards, control and management.
redevelopment projects, the rationale for acquisitions and disposals effectively communicated and implemented across the business.
The CBRE presentation covered the valuation of the property portfolio It sets strategy and oversees its implementation.
Our Directors are and how these are aligned to strategy.
They also inform the Board Our intranet is also used as a platform for employees to access our and the wider market in which the Company operates.
highly skilled professionals, who bring a range of skills, perspectives on the discussions held with analysts and investors.
The Company policies, and they are kept up-to-date on the latest Company news.
Collectively, they have many years of Secretary and external advisers periodically update the Board on The Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board, the experience gained in a wide range of businesses and sectors, as regulatory changes.
In particular, the Board considered the Annual Board tours provide opportunities for the Board to enhance Committees on which they serve and the Annual General Meeting illustrated on pages 80 to 90.
The skills of Board members include implications of the General Data Protection Regulation and the their understanding of the business first-hand, visiting selected AGM, and to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs, to property, finance, retail, marketing, telecoms, media, law and general Data Protection Act 2018 which came into force in May 2018 properties.
In September 2017, the Board undertook site visits to enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Two Executive Directors also serve as and regulations in general, including the revised Corporate the two new properties recently acquired.
These visits to both The Non-Executive Directors on external boards.
Salisbury and 13-17 Fitzroy Street helped the Board to assess the Individual Directors attendance at each of the Board and Committee effectiveness of the current strategy.
It demonstrated the future meetings held during the year ended 31 March 2018 are set out in the potential within the portfolio and ensured that Directors remain table to the right.
up-to-date with ongoing developments in the business.
Our governance framework Scheduled meetings and member attendance Employees below Board level are invited to present to the Board on operational topics.
During the year, our Energy & Sustainability Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Leadership Manager updated the Board on our Doing the Right Thing strategy, Daniel Kitchen 9 9 8 8 2 2 while our Head of Marketing presented results from The Workspace The Board Jamie Hopkins 9 9 Advantage advertising campaign.
Number of meetings in 2017 18: Graham Clemett 9 9 The Board draws on expertise throughout the business and from Chris Girling 9 9 3 3 8 8 2 2 external advisers to ensure that its judgements are based on sound Damon Russell 9 9 3 3 8 8 2 2 9 and timely information.
1 Maria Moloney 9 9 3 3 8 8 1 2 Stephen Hubbard 9 9 3 3 8 8 2 2 The Board operates through a robust risk management and internal Executive Committee Investment Committee control system, details of which can be found on page 110.
Detailed Number of meetings in 2017 18: Number of meetings in 2017 18: in this section are the main Committees that are used by the Board 1.
Maria Moloney did not attend one meeting of the Nomination Committee as the business of the meeting was in relation to her reappointment as a Director to embed strict corporate governance practices.
21 20 The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors, Should the Directors be unable to attend meetings, they would be including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection provided with papers to allow them to make their views known to the at the Companys registered office.
More information on pages 92 and 93.
More information on pages 75 to 80.
Chairman ahead of that meeting.
If any Director has concerns about the running of the Company Periodically, the Chairman meets the Non-Executive Directors without or proposed action which cannot be resolved, these concerns are the Executive Directors present and maintains regular contact with recorded in the Board Minutes.
No such concerns arose during the Jamie Hopkins, the Chief Executive Officer, and other members of the year under review.
Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Annual review of strategy Matters reserved for the Board Whilst the Board considers strategy throughout the year, it also Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee To help retain control of key decisions, the Board has a formal Number of meetings in 2017 18: Number of meetings in 2017 18: Number of meetings in 2017 18: holds an annual deep dive strategy day, together with the Executive schedule of reserved matters that require its approval.
In September 2017, the meeting covered the potential reserved include: impact of external changes in our market, amongst other things.
Additionally, the Head of Marketing provided an update on the 2 3 8 Dividend policy.
marketing campaign conducted during the year.
Business objectives and annual budgets.
Succession planning for the Board and Senior Management.
Our annual strategy review is essential in reinforcing our commitment Approval of significant funding decisions.
to keep strategy at the forefront of discussions, and to ensure that our Review and approval of corporate transactions.
strategy remains relevant in our changing marketplace.
Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by the Board to Meetings the Executive Committee, subject to formal delegated authority limits.
The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual programme of Board and Committee meetings which are scheduled throughout The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed at least More information on pages 102 to 102.
More information on pages 103 to 110.
More information on pages 113 to 134. the year, with main meetings timed around the Companys financial once a year and can be accessed on the Company website at calendar.
Additional meetings are convened to consider an annual www.
cycle of topics, including the annual strategy day, key management and financial updates, review of risk as well as the approval of Risk Committee acquisitions and refurbishment programmes.
In the year ended Number of meetings in 2017 18: 31 March 2018, the Board met formally on nine occasions, including a strategy day in September 2017.
Supplementary meetings or conference calls are held between formal Board meetings as required.
76Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Leadership continued Board Committees Division of responsibility Board activities in 2017 18 The Board has a number of standing Committees, namely the Nomination, Audit, and Remuneration Committees, to which specific Chairman As Chairman, Daniel Kitchen, is primarily responsible responsibilities have been delegated.
These Committees enable the for the operation, leadership and overall effectiveness Trading performance Board to operate effectively and ensure a strong governance of the Board.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda The Board regularly monitors performance to assess whether the framework.
and ensures that the Board as a whole plays a full and business model is effective in driving enquiries and ensuring we Strategy constructive part in the development of the Groups continue to meet customer needs and adapt to overall trends and The Board regularly debates the relevance and Further details of the work of these Committees can be found strategy.
The Chairman facilitates the effective conditions in the London property market.
effectiveness of the strategy to ensure it is the right one on pages 100 to 134. contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and for the business in current and future market conditions.
Activities in 2017 18 ensures all Directors receive accurate, timely and Reviewed progress against the five-year business plan and Activities in 2017 18 Each Committee has Terms of Reference which were reviewed by clear information.
updating the plan as required.
Worked with the Executive Directors to review the Reviewed monthly financial performance against budget and each of the Committees and the Board during the year.
The Terms of current strategy and ensure its continued relevance.
other finance matters, including budgets and business plans.
Held a Board Strategy Day in September 2017.
Reference for the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees Other responsibilities include: Considered in detail, the annual and interim results, and dividends.
The annual Board tour took place in September 2017. are available for inspection on the Companys website at With the Nomination Committee, ensuring Discussed treasury and cash management matters.
Directors visited two recent acquisitions, 13-17 Fitzroy www.
that the Board remains appropriately balanced Discussed Group tax matters.
Received updates on market and broker reports.
to deliver the Groups strategic objectives and Completion of 200m Private Placement in August Meetings were held throughout the year between the Auditors 2017.
Each of the Committees is comprised of independent Non-Executive to meet the requirements of good corporate and the Audit Committee.
Directors of the Company who are appointed by the Board.
members receive minutes of meetings and comprehensive papers Ensuring that there is effective communication in advance of Committee meetings, and a Committee can request with the Groups shareholders.
presentations or reports on areas of interest.
The Chairman is not involved in an executive capacity The activity of each Committee is described on pages 100 to 134. in any of the Groups activities.
Chief Jamie Hopkins is the Chief Executive Officer.
Jamie The Company Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
Executive is responsible for leading and managing the business, Officer and is accountable to the Board for the financial and Roles, responsibilities and composition operational performance of the Group, the The roles and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman and achievement of the strategic objectives set by the Chief Executive Officer are separate, with a clear division of Board and delivery of The Workspace Advantage Property valuation and investment responsibilities between them.
The Chairman is responsible for the The Board reviews and challenges the valuation of the portfolio, and to all stakeholders.
Risk management and internal controls leadership of the Board, and the Chief Executive Officer manages and reviews and approves major development projects and acquisitions Robust governance and risk management are crucial to the and disposals.
Senior The Board appointed Chris Girling to the position leads the business.
Boards role in protecting the business, along with Independent of Senior Independent Director on 16 July 2014. maximising opportunities for growth and returns.
The Board Activities in 2017 18 regularly reviews governance requirements and assesses the Director In performing this role, Chris provides an alternative The Board considers there to be an appropriate balance between Considered and approved the independent valuation of the adequacy of risk management, including the effectiveness of communication channel for shareholders, if required, Executive and Non-Executive Directors required to lead the business Groups property portfolio performed by CBRE.
internal controls and risk reporting.
Approval of redevelopment activity and major refurbishments.
and is available to meet with investors on request.
and safeguard the interest of shareholders.
The Board comprises the Received updates from the Development Director on the status Activities in 2017 18 He can also deputise for the Chairman in his absence Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are independent, of planning consents.
Regularly reviewed the principal risks of the business.
and counsel all Board colleagues.
This meets the requirement of the Code Disposal of Uplands Business Park for 50m in May 2017.
Received reports on Health and Safety and activities for at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be independent Disposal of Stratford Office Village for 14m in September 2017. undertaken in terms of staff training and ongoing audits.
Disposal of Zennor Road Industrial Estate for 30m in August Chris chairs an annual meeting of the Executive and Received reports on governance issues, including legal Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman Acquisition of The Salisbury for 158.7m in June 2017.
Reviewed the Groups preparedness for the present, to appraise the Chairmans performance and The Directors have a wide range of business skills.
Their biographical Acquisition of Centro Buildings for 109m in January 2018. implementation of GDPR, including regular updates on address any other matters which the Directors might details can be found on pages 84 to 90, which show the breadth activities facilitating compliance.
Chris then conveys the outcome of Received updates from the Risk Committee.
of their skills and experience and membership of the Committees.
Reviewed the Companys Viability Statement.
these discussions to the Chairman.
All of our Directors have significant experience and knowledge of the sector in which we operate.
Non-Executive The Non-Executive Directors have a broad mix of Directors business skills, knowledge and experience acquired across different business sectors.
This allows them to provide independent and external perspectives to Board discussions.
Board engagement with the business In order to ensure good quality decision making and oversight, Succession planning and Board performance The Board understands that the strength of its governance all Directors stay up-to-date with events and developments in the relies on having the right mix of skills and experience Shareholder engagement business, as well as external factors such as the changing governance around the Boardroom table and ensuring there is The Board is committed to an open dialogue with landscape, regulation and Shareholder views.
The Board conducts a all shareholders and actively seeks their views on rigorous evaluation of its performance each year and the relevant governance matters.
evaluation is externally facilitated every three years.
To read more about the Boards tours of our new acquisitions, please Activities in 2017 18 see page 77.
Activities in 2017 18 Reviewed reports from the Companys brokers Conducted an external Board evaluation for the year to and advisers, outlining shareholder views and 31 March 2018. providing feedback on Company presentations Conducted a review of succession planning for the Board or events.
Reviewed the 2017 AGM Shareholder Circular and Considered and approved the reappointment of Maria proxy voting figures.
Moloney as a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
78Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Leadership continued Leadership structure John Robson Non-Executive Directors Board Committees To help deliver The Workspace Advantage, The Board is collectively Asset Management Director the Board regularly absorbs insight from around responsible for the Companys Role: Responsible for the asset Daniel Kitchen long-term success and the management of the portfolio, Non-Executive Chairman the business and from external experts.
delivery of its strategic and including lettings, lease renewals, Role: As Chairman of the Board operational objectives.
refurbishments and facilities and Chairman of the Nomination Nomination Committee management.
Committee, Daniel brings Role: To continually develop The Board sets the strategic independence and strong the skills and experience of the direction, governance and values Investment Committee leadership skills.
Board and to meet the changing of the Group and has ultimate Role: To ensure that any needs of the business.
responsibility for its management significant expenditure across Chris Girling and performance.
the business is made in support Senior Independent of the Companys strategy.
Non-Executive Director The Board draws on the and Chairman of the expertise within the business and Risk Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee from external advisers to ensure Role: To manage strategic Role: To independently advise Role: To review and report on that its judgements are based on and operational risks in each the Board.
Chris has a detailed the Groups financial reporting, sound and timely information.
functional area of the business knowledge of risk assessment internal controls and risk and assess internal controls.
and infrastructure development management process.
The Board operates through experience.
Chris chairs the a sound risk management and Disclosure Committee Audit Committee and is a internal control system: more Role: To assist the Company member of the Remuneration on which can be found on to make timely and accurate and Nomination Committees.
Detailed in the risk disclosures of information Remuneration Committee section are the main Committees required to meet the legal and market Maria Moloney Role: To ensure that remuneration that are used by the Board to regulatory obligations arising Non-Executive Director and arrangements underpin the embed strict corporate from the Market Abuse Chairman of the Remuneration Groups strategy and to attract governance practices.
Committee and retain critical talent.
Role: Maria brings a wealth of experience from a legal Right Right Internal Committees background, as well as property brand properties and telecoms.
Maria chairs the The The Board Senior Management Remuneration Committee and Role: To assist the Chief Workspace is a member of the Audit and Executive Directors Executive Officer in managing Nomination Committees.
Advantage Executive Committee the day-to-day activities of Jamie Hopkins the Group.
Damon Russell Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Role: With extensive experience External Role: Damon brings extensive Role: Executive management in the property sector, Jamie is TMT experience to the Board, of the Company and the daily responsible for the delivery of and is a member of the Right Right operations of the Group.
strategy, business development, Remuneration, Nomination people customers investor relations, corporate and and Audit Committees.
Independent Auditors Chief Financial Officer Role: To obtain reasonable Stephen Hubbard Role: Overseeing the Groups Graham Clemett Non-Executive Director assurance about whether financial activity, treasury, tax, Chief Financial Officer the financial statements as Role: Stephen has a wealth Company secretarial, Role: To manage the Groups of experience in the property a whole are free from material governance and compliance, financial activity.
Graham has misstatements, whether due sector.
Stephen is a member and managing the Groups extensive experience in finance of the Audit, Remuneration to fraud or error, and to give IT strategy.
an opinion to the shareholders and Nomination Committees.
Angus Boag Development Director Role: Responsible for the planning and development of properties, Company Secretary and sustainability.
Independent Advisers Carmelina Carfora Role: To provide expert guidance Chris Pieroni to the Board and Senior Company Secretary Operations Director Role: Carmelina is Secretary to Management on specific areas Role: Responsible for corporate which support the efficient the Board and its Committees, and business development, providing governance and operation of the Group.
including marketing and compliance advice.
The Board Company Secretary Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Senior Management Independent Auditors Independent Advisers 80Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Leadership continued The Board Board tenure Board experience Our Board comprises highly skilled 1.
8. individuals who bring valuable and 7.
2. varied experience to the Boardroom.
The business benefits from their strong 6.
2. external networks, as well as insight drawn from regular engagement with colleagues internally.
We asked our Board members what The 9 The Board met nine times Workspace Advantage during the year ended 1.
The Board Apr May May Jul Sep Nov Jan Feb Mar 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 Heres what they said Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive Officer Daniel Kitchen Non-Executive Chairman Maria Moloney Non-Executive Director Graham Clemett Chief Financial Officer Chris Girling Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Stephen Hubbard Non-Executive Director Damon Russell Non-Executive Director Executive Directors Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Meeting attended 82Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
