Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Relations with Shareholders continued 4.
The Annual General Meeting Our ongoing investor relations calendar of events conferences The Annual General Meeting The Executive Directors and AGM will be held at the Regular programme Senior Management team Companys business centre at Investor Investor regularly attend and present at 160 Fleet Street, London EC4A Calendar of events meetings tours Effectiveness Real Estate Conferences held by 2DQ and is attended by the full 2018 banks and industry bodies, e. g. Board of Directors.
Details of EPRA, in the UK, Europe and US.
the resolutions to be proposed July AGM Q1 Business Update at the AGM on 13 July 2018 Why they are important can be found in the Notice August Conferences provide a good of AGM, which is available at September US and UK investor opportunity to meet a large www.
co. uk, and will conferences number of investors and industry be dispatched to Shareholders associates in one place.
They who have requested a hard copy October Capital Markets Day often include presentations or of the documentation from the November Half Year Results panel discussions on industry Company.
All Shareholders are Investor roadshow trends and allow the Executive invited to vote on the Resolutions, Directors to build relationships and the results are made available December with key players in the sector, as after the meeting and published January Investor conference well as demonstrate the strength on our investor website.
Q3 Business Update and depth of the management team.
Additionally, they often Why it is important February provide an opportunity to hold The AGM provides Shareholders March Year end one-on-one and group meetings with a forum to put questions to Diversity of skills, US and UK investor with investors outside of the the Board of Directors, and to conferences formal roadshow schedule.
vote on important issues within the business.
April knowledge and Frequency May Six conferences attended Frequency this year.
June Full Year Results experience is essential Investor roadshow 5.
Capital Markets Day Tours of the Groups assets The Capital Markets Day is in ensuring that we are organised regularly, both held once a year and includes proactively and on request, either a tour of the Groups for existing and prospective properties or management have a strong investors.
The Executive out by the Executive Directors Directors are all present, as well and the Head of Corporate as a group of Centre Managers and highly effective Communications, with Asset and other members of the Managers, Centre Managers management team.
and other team members Board.
Why it is important As well as showcasing the Why they are important Groups properties, the Capital The tours showcase the Markets Day allows Workspace properties within the portfolio to educate analysts and and demonstrate the operational investors on different aspects model Workspace has adopted, of the business and demonstrate as well as the high levels of how it is driving value and activity ongoing across the growth from its real estate and Daniel Kitchen Group.
They allow investors customer proposition.
We have Chairman of the to see the space being used scheduled the next Capital Nomination Committee by customers and demonstrate Markets Day for October 2018, the business model and strategy when we expect to conduct in action.
a tour of several properties and provide insights into our Frequency customer base.
96Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Effectiveness continued Independence of Non-Executive Directors Induction, training and development Commitment During the year, the Board considered the independence of all of the All new Non-Executive Directors joining the Board undertake a Non-Executive Directors are advised on appointment of the time Board performance evaluation Non-Executive Directors, save for the Chairman who was deemed formal and personalised induction programme which is designed required to fulfil the role and asked to confirm that they can make the The Board recognises that annual performance evaluations independent by the Board at the date of his appointment.
to give him or her an understanding of the Companys business, required commitment.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Nonenable it to improve its effectiveness and that of its Committees governance and stakeholders.
This will cover, for example, the Executive Directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Companys and Directors.
In accordance with our policy to undertake The Board considers that our Non-Executive Directors remain operation and activities of the Group including site visits and meeting business.
Letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors are the Board evaluation process externally every three years, independent from executive management and free from any business members of the senior management team : the Groups principal available for inspection at the AGM.
our Board evaluation for the year under review was undertaken or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise strategic risks: the role of the Board: the decision-making matters by Advanced Boardroom Excellence Limited, an independent of their independent judgement.
All Non-Executive Directors act in a reserved to the Board: the responsibilities of the Board Committees: Non-Executive Directors seek approval from the Chairman, prior to third party, which carries out no other work for the Company.
robust and independent manner and bring constructive challenge to and the Boards strategic objectives.
assuming additional external commitments which may affect their The evaluation covered the Board, Board Directors and its Board discussions and independent decision-making to their Board time available to devote to the Companys business.
Individual meetings were held with each Director, and Committee duties.
We recognise that our Directors have a diverse range of experience, advised of any changes.
members of the Executive Committee and the Company and so we encourage them to attend external seminars and briefings, Secretary.
The report was discussed at the April Board Meeting.
As in previous years, the independence of Stephen Hubbard was at the Companys expense, in areas considered appropriate for their All Directors allocate sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities specifically considered during the year.
Stephen is Chairman of CBRE professional development.
The Companys principal external advisers effectively.
Directors notify the Chairman of any alterations to their UK and is a member of their Management Board.
CBRE are the provide updates to the Board, at least annually, on the latest external commitments, as they arise, with an indication of the time Groups external independent valuers.
Stephen does not take part in developments in their respective fields.
There were no changes during the year.
any considerations of the valuation of the Groups property portfolio at either Board or Committee level.
Furthermore, he has no involvement Our Company Secretary also provides regular updates to the Board The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors are in any discussions or decisions regarding the appointment of CBRE or and its Committees on changes in legal, regulatory and corporate contributing effectively to the operation of the Board.
The Board is satisfied and continues to conclude governance matters.
that Stephen remains independent both in character and judgement.
Positions held by the Non-Executive Directors are detailed in the Outcomes During the year, we organised presentations for the Board and its section on Directors biographies on pages 86 to 90.
Overall, the evaluation considered that the Chairman and Chief Re-election of Directors Committees on the following areas: Executive have an excellent working relationship which delivers In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors Changes being proposed to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, we were pleased that the report will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM on Executive remuneration trends and best practice.
On 1 March 2018, Jamie Hopkins became a Non-Executive Director highlighted the following strengths: 13 July 2018.
Following the Board evaluation review during the year, Cyber security.
of St. Modwen Properties PLC.
The Board and its Committees continued to work well and that the Chairman considers that each Director continues to operate as Requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation.
the Directors contribute effectively and demonstrate an effective member of the Board and has the skills, knowledge and Updates on our sustainability initiatives.
On 1 June 2016, Graham Clemett was appointed as a Non-Executive commitment to their roles: experience that enables them to discharge their duties effectively, as Director of The Restaurant Group Plc.
The Boards culture is one of openness and constructive debate: members of the Board and the Board Committees.
Consequently, the Independent advice the style and tone was seen as respectful, with a collegiate and Board is of the opinion that the Directors continue to give effective The Directors can, for the purpose of discharging their duties, Executive Directors are permitted to take a Non-Executive position supportive environment: counsel and commitment to the Company and, accordingly, should obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
in another company or organisation in order to broaden their skills Debates held by the Board are seen as inclusive and dynamic: be re-appointed by the Companys Shareholders at the upcoming No Director had reason to use this facility during the year.
The appointment to such positions is subject to and AGM.
The explanatory notes in the Notice of Meeting for the AGM the approval of the Board which considers, in particular, the time The agenda is well structured, thus enabling Board members state the reasons why the Board believes that the Directors proposed commitment required.
to prepare for meetings and ensure that decisions are made for re-election at the AGM should be re-appointed.
Information and support to the Board Mr Hopkins and Mr Clemett have service contracts and details can The Board and its Committees are provided with comprehensive The evaluation also reinforced the Boards commitment to the be found on page 133.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have papers in a timely manner to ensure that members are fully briefed following: service contracts and are given letters of appointment.
on matters to be discussed at their meetings.
Strategy should continue to feature on the Boards agenda: Continue with the focus on succession planning for both The appointment of Daniel Kitchen may be terminated by either him The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Executive and Non-Executive Directors and for senior roles or the Company giving six months notice in writing.
Her biography can be found on across the business: page 91.
Through the Chairman, Carmelina is responsible for advising As the revised UK Corporate Governance Code unfolds, consider Maria Moloneys second term of appointment as Non-Executive the Board on matters of corporate governance and ensuring how the Board will engage with its stakeholders more generally, Director expired on 22 May 2018.
Following a review of her compliance with Board procedures.
and how it might further develop the structure of its engagement performance, the Nomination Committee recommended that her with the business.
appointment should be extended for a further three-year term.
In consultation with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer This recommendation was agreed by the Board in March 2018. and Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary manages the Chairmans evaluation provision of information to the Board for their formal Board meetings The Senior Independent Director normally chairs an annual meeting The appointment of Chris Girling, Maria Moloney, Damon Russell and and at other appropriate times.
of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman Stephen Hubbard may be terminated by either the Company or any present, to appraise the Chairmans performance and to address one of them giving three months notice in writing.
The Board utilises an electronic Board paper system which provides any other matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
The immediate and secure access to Board papers and materials.
Prior to outcome of these discussions is conveyed by the Senior each Board meeting, the Directors receive through this system the Independent Director to the Chairman.
During the year under agenda and supporting papers to ensure that they have the latest review, the Chairmans performance was appraised as part of the and relevant information in advance of the meeting.
It concluded that the Chairman is highly respected and he was complimented for his leadership, experience After each Board meeting, the Company Secretary operates a and for his inclusive style during Board meetings.
comprehensive follow-up procedure to ensure that actions are completed as agreed by the Board.
Having considered the results of the review, the Board is satisfied that the Chairman continues to be effective and shows a high level The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer ensure of commitment in discharging his responsibilities.
that the Board is kept fully aware, on a timely basis, of business matters relating to the Group.
98Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
