Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder Role of the Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the Our role is to monitor the integrity of the financial statements Committees report for the financial year ended 31 March 2018. of the Group, review and report to the Board on significant reporting issues and judgements, and review and assess the The Report of the Audit Committee details the key activities of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial Committee during the year under review, alongside its principal controls and other internal control systems.
The Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, oversees the financial reporting process, monitors the effectiveness Composition of the Committee of internal control, risk management and the statutory audit.
All members of the Committee, detailed below are independent Non-Executive Directors with a good diversity of experience, External Auditor Transition to KPMG LLP including property and finance.
The Chair, Chris Girling, is a Following the decision to undertake an audit tender in January 2017, qualified accountant and has an appropriate level of recent and a recommendation to appoint KPMG LLP as the Groups new External relevant financial experience to discharge his duties as Chair of Auditor for the 2017 18 financial year was approved by the Board in The the Committee.
Workspace January 2017, and was subsequently approved by Shareholders at Advantage Chris Girling Chairman the 2017 AGM.
Maria Moloney Damon Russell In order to achieve as smooth a transition as possible, a plan was Stephen Hubbard Helping to deliver drawn up early on with the aim of familiarising the new lead audit The Workspace Advantage: partner, Richard Kelly, and his team with the Workspace business.
For full biographies see pages 87 to 90.
KPMG had meetings with and shadowed the work of PwC LLP PwC, the outgoing External Auditor, during the year-end process for 2017.
Attendance Delivering The Workspace Introductory meetings were also held with senior management and Advantage requires the Audit May Nov Feb members of the finance team to enhance KPMGs understanding of 2017 2017 2018 Committee to play a key role in the Group and key business processes.
ensuring the integrity of financial Chris Girling reporting and the maintenance of I am pleased to report that the transition to KPMG from PwC went Maria Moloney a sound internal control system.
well and they have gained a good understanding of the business Damon Russell over the last year.
We look forward to working with KPMG over the Stephen Hubbard coming years.
We thank PwC for their services and for supporting a smooth Meeting attended transition.
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee and Chris Girling In future years, the Company intends to put the external audit out attends all meetings.
Chairman of the Audit to tender at least every 10 years.
Committee Review of material issues During the year under review, the Committee has continued to review and report to the Board on the Groups financial and narrative reporting and internal control and risk management processes.
The Audit Committee has a key role in reviewing the narrative reporting and ensuring the financial statements provide a true and Remit of the Audit Committee fair view of the Groups financial affairs.
As part of this review process, Monitor the integrity of financial statements.
we considered the significant financial judgements made during the year, along with other key financial reporting issues.
In this context, Provide an opinion to the Board that the Annual Report and we considered the valuation of the investment portfolio as a Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
significant issue, for which further details are provided on page 108.
3 Review and report to the Board on significant financial reporting During the year, we also considered, as we do on a regular basis, issues and judgements.
the potential for fraud in revenue recognition, scope for management The Audit Committee met three times during override of controls and compliance with regulations.
the year ended 31 March 2018 Review the adequacy of the Companys financial controls.
A description of the main activities and information on the other Review and monitoring of risk management and internal controls.
significant issues that the Committee considered during the year can be found on page 107.
Ensure that at least once every 10 years the audit services contract is put out to tender.
Make recommendations to the Board on the reappointment of the Companys External Auditors and their remuneration.
104Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Audit Committee Report continued Risk Management Members of the Committee 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Fair, Balanced and Understandable The principal business risks facing the Company, which have been All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
The Committee reported that based on its review of the relevant evidence, subject to robust assessment by the Board, are set out on pages 46 Directors, who collectively have the skills and experience required it was satisfied that the Annual Report: to 56, and the ongoing review and monitoring of the Groups risk to discharge their duties.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: and management and internal control systems are described on page 110. provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Board is satisfied that Chris Girling, who was appointed The Audit Committee and the Board have continued to assess the Committee Chairman in July 2014, has the necessary level of relevant The Boards statement on the Annual Report and Accounts is set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 139. long-term viability of the Company, as required by the UK Corporate financial and accounting experience required by the provisions of the Governance Code.
Further information can be found on page 108 UK Corporate Governance Code to perform the role of Chairman, Main activities of the Audit Committee in relation to the year ended 31 March 2018 and our Viability Statement is located on page 57. having previously held Chief Financial Officer positions in public The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk companies.
Chris is also a Chartered Accountant and he continues management system, details of which are described on page 110.
Audit Committee evaluation to chair the Audit Committee for another public limited company.
As a Committee, we are continually looking at opportunities to The table below summarises the agenda items covered at the Committees meetings during this period: improve our effectiveness.
The performance of the Committee was Meetings of the Committee reviewed during the year as part of the external review of the Board Meetings of the Audit Committee coincide with key dates in the Financial and narrative Reviewed the Full and Half Year Results and associated announcements.
The topics covered in the review focused on the financial reporting and audit cycle.
During the year, the Committee reporting Reviewed the Groups Annual Report and Accounts to consider whether, taken as a whole, they were skills and experience of the Audit Committee members, the number met on three occasions, in May and November 2017 and in February fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provide the necessary information for of meetings held and the quality of interaction between Committee 2018.
In addition, the Committee met in May 2018 to discuss the shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance.
members and members of the management team.
Annual Report, the property valuations and the findings of the Received corporate reporting updates and considered the approach to the 2018 Annual Report and external auditor.
Meetings of the Committee generally take place Accounts.
I am pleased that all aspects of the review were positive and that the just prior to the Board meeting.
Considered the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices.
Committee continues to operate effectively.
External audit Reviewed and considered the KPMG Reports to the Audit Committee following the Half Year review Meetings are attended by the External Auditor and members of the and Full Year audit.
Governance Groups senior management team.
Those people and advisers listed Discussed the Boards Representation Letter.
In order to ensure ongoing compliance with regulatory developments, below attend meetings, at the request of the Committee Chair.
Reviewed the performance of the External Auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
the Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed annually.
Whilst the Discussed the audit and non-audit fees and independence of the External Auditor, taking into Terms of Reference were reviewed during the year, no significant Attendee Position consideration relevant professional and regulatory developments, including mandatory auditor tendering.
changes were made and they are available on the Companys website Daniel Kitchen Chairman Independence and objectivity Considered the adequacy of the Groups procedures with regard to the objectivity and independence at www.
Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive Officer of the External Auditor of the External Auditor, KPMG.
Graham Clemett Chief Financial Officer In the year ahead, we plan to continue to ensure that the Groups risk Portfolio valuation Considered the full and half year valuation of the Groups property portfolio and the external valuation Vivienne Frankham Head of Finance management and internal controls remain robust and to help secure process.
Meetings were held with the external valuers to consider the portfolio valuation.
the long-term success of the Company.
Angus Boag Development Director Taxation and REIT compliance Discussed the Groups compliance with REIT legislation and general tax matters.
Chris Pieroni Operations Director Chris Girling Corporate Governance Received updates from the External Auditor on compliance and changes in Corporate Governance KPMG LLP External Auditor Chairman of the Audit Committee matters.
Grant Thornton Tax Advisers 5 June 2018 Considered the appropriateness of the Groups Viability Statement and Going Concern assumption.
CBRE Valuers The Viability Statement and Going Concern is set out on page 57.
Considered the results of the external evaluation of the Audit Committee.
Reviewed the Terms of Reference for the Committee.
The Committee Chairman reports the outcome of meetings to Received training and technical updates from the Company Secretary and the External Auditor.
Received an update from PwC on Cyber Security.
The Committee has a rolling agenda that ensures it gives thorough Reviewed the principal risks Reviewed the principal business risks, risk management and internal controls.
The principal risks and consideration to matters of particular importance to the Company, risk management system are set out on pages 46 to 56. identifying key areas of focus and emerging topics as appropriate.
The Committee receives appropriate information far enough in advance to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This includes not only information from management but also detailed reports from the External Auditor.
Meetings with the External Auditor At least once a year, usually preceding a Committee meeting, the Committee meets separately with the external audit engagement partner to give the Auditors an opportunity to discuss matters without the executive management team being present in order to receive feedback from them on matters such as the quality of interaction with management.
The Committee Chairman also holds separate one-to-one meetings with the Chief Financial Officer and the External Auditor KPMG were appointed as the External Auditor during 2017 18, typically ahead of Committee meetings, in order to discuss key issues relevant to the Committees work.
Ensuring these lines of communication are open and working well is vital to the success of the Committee in carrying out its work and to ensure that sufficient time is devoted to matters at the subsequent meetings.
Meetings with CBRE In addition, the Committee Chairman will also meet with the Groups independent property valuers CBRE to consider the valuation of our property portfolio.
106Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Audit Committee Report continued Significant issues considered by the Committee Non-audit services A self-interest threat The Audit Committee considers all financial information published in the annual and half-year financial statements and considers accounting The Audit Committee Terms of Reference establish a process for Where a financial or other interest of an individual or KPMG will policies adopted by the Group, presentation and disclosure of the financial information and, in particular, the key judgements made by monitoring and approving the nature and the level of related fees for inappropriately influence an individuals judgement or behaviour.
management in preparing the financial statements.
non-audit services e. g. accounting, tax or due diligence work paid to the Groups External Auditor.
The Audit Committee will specifically perform the following: The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the If the External Auditor is to be considered for the provision of level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial statements.
The main area of focus The Group may use the External Auditor for relevant financial work non-audit services, the scope of work and fees must be approved during the year is set out below: for a variety of reasons, including their knowledge of the Group and in advance by the Chief Financial Officer, the Committee Secretary understanding of our sector, the audit-related nature of the work and and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For larger assignments, Matter considered Action taken by the Committee the need to maintain confidentiality.
in excess of 100,000 this would involve a competitive tender Valuation of the investment The valuation of the investment property portfolio is inherently subjective, requiring significant judgement.
process, unless there are compelling commercial or timescale property portfolio The outcome is significant for the Group in terms of its investment decisions, results and remuneration.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee is advised of any significant reasons to use the External Auditor or another specific non-audit work awarded to the External Auditor since the previous accountancy firm.
The valuation is conducted externally by independent valuers.
The valuers presented the year-end meeting and the related fees.
At the annual May meeting, the Audit It will not accept significant contingent fee arrangements with valuation to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and outcomes of the Committee receive a report of fees, both audit and non-audit, from the External Auditor.
valuation, challenging the key assumptions and judgements.
The objectivity and independence of the KPMG for the past financial year.
The Committee has considered in valuers is monitored by the Audit Committee.
KPMG also met with the valuers and presented their views detail the nature and level of non-audit services provided by KPMG An advocacy threat on the valuation to the Committee, as well as an explanation for how the valuation is audited.
Based on and the related fees.
The Committee may challenge and in some This is where KPMG or KPMG personnel promote an audit clients the above, the Committee was satisfied that the methodology, assumptions and judgements used by the instances refuse proposals in respect of non-audit work to be position to the extent where KPMGs objectivity as External Auditor valuers were appropriate, and that the valuations were suitable for inclusion in the financial statements.
performed by the External Auditor.
The Audit Committee considered a formal policy specifying the The Group will not use KPMG in an advocacy role.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered a number of other judgements which have been made by management, none of which had types of non-audit service for which use of the External Auditor a significant impact on the Group results.
This is in response to the Guidance on Audit A familiarity threat Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC This is where, because of a too long or too close a relationship, in April 2016.
Consequently, it was agreed that all non-audit work the External Auditors independence is affected.
Viability Statement process Developing a robust Viability Statement and fees would be reported to the Audit Committee.
The Viability Statement can be found on page 57.
In continued development of the Groups Viability Statement, The Audit Committee will prohibit the hiring of former employees existing processes were strengthened to ensure risks were identified, In addition, the Audit Committee will assess the threats of self-review of the External Auditor associated with the Groups audit into Going Concern statement understood and reassessed over the period.
The following factors by the External Auditor, self-interest, advocacy, familiarity and management roles with significant influence within the Group The Going Concern statement can be found on page 57. were considered: management.
These are set out below and considered in relation within two years following their association with the audit, unless The Groups current financial and operational position and the to KPMGs services: the Chairman of the Audit Committee gives prior consent.
Annually, the Audit Committee will be advised of any new hires The Groups cash flows, financing headroom and financial ratios.
A self-review threat caught by this policy.
There have been no instances of this Reassessment of key risks and their potential impact on the This is where, in providing a service, the KPMG audit team could occurring.
potentially evaluate the results of a previous KPMG service.
The Audit Committee will monitor on an ongoing basis the relationship with the External Auditors, to ensure its continuing The process we undertook independence, objectivity and effectiveness by reviewing its Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 tenure, quality and fees.
Risk identification Risk assessment Scenario sensitivity analysis Conclusions Management threat This occurs when the audit firm performs non-audit services The Board and management make judgements based on that work.
Audit Committee The Group will not use KPMG for any services which would Executive Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee be considered management responsibility.
Risk Committee Risk Committee Internal audit Audit fees Senior Management Senior Management Senior Management Senior Management Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an internal Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG can be found External Auditor audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Audit in note 2 on page 154.
However, management mandates a programme of financial, operational and health and safety internal audits at its The only non-audit service performed by KPMG in the year was We reviewed both strategic and For each risk, we considered: For those risks identified as The Board was presented with properties.
These are carried out by qualified senior Head Office the review of the Groups half year results.
operational risks to identify the Our risk appetite the level being severe enough to impact the findings from this analysis personnel on a rotational basis.
All findings are reported to the principal risks to viability over of risk the Board is willing the viability of the Group, we and given the opportunity Risk Committee with any significant findings reported to the the period under consideration.
performed sensitivity analysis to to question the process Audit Committee.
We considered the risks that The controls in place understand the potential impact and findings.
would impact solvency and to mitigate the risk.
on liquidity and financial ratios.
liquidity, either individually or The quantum of risk.
in combination with other risks.
108Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
