CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The WPP Board is committed OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE to ensuring there is a strong and effective system of BOARD corporate governance in Report from page 88 place to support the successful execution of theCompanysstrategy.
NOMINATION & AUDIT GOVERNANCE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Report from page 99 Report on page 98 Report from page 104 DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED IN 2018 BOARD ATTENDANCE TABLE Board Board Nomination and scheduled unscheduled Audit Compensation Governance 1 meetings meetings Committee Committee Committee Roberto Quarta 3 3 8 8 6 6 5 5 2 Mark Read appointed on3 September 2018 5 5 3 3 Paul Richardson 6 6 3 3 Jacques Aigrain 6 6 2 3 10 10 8 8 Tarek Farahat 6 6 2 3 10 10 Sir John Hood 6 6 3 3 8 8 Ruigang Li 5 6 1 3 4 5 Daniela Riccardi 6 6 3 3 5 5 Nicole Seligman appointed to Nomination and 6 6 3 3 8 8 3 3 Governance Committee on 17 April 2018 Sally Susman 6 6 1 3 5 5 Solomon D. Sol Trujillo 6 6 2 3 10 10 Former Directors whoserved for part oftheyear Sir Martin Sorrell retiredon 14 April 2018 1 1 Hugo Shong retiredon 31 July 2018 3 4 3 4 1 Additional unscheduled meetings of the Board took place in relation to the resignation of Sir Martin Sorrell on 14 April 2018.
2 Mark Read attended two scheduled meetings of the Board as CEO and three scheduled meetings of the Board as Joint COO.
Chair 92 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY ENSURING A INDEPENDENCE AND BALANCED BOARD RE-ELECTION TO THE BOARD The composition of the Board and its The independence, effectiveness and Committees is under regular review and commitment of each of the Non-Executive therange of skills and capabilities at Board Directors have been reviewed by the level is assessed for relevance to the Nomination and Governance Committee execution of our transformation and strategy.
andas part of the external Board evaluation Cultural and gender diversity, expertise in facilitated by Dr Tracy Long and detailed on important markets such as China, and page 95.
We were satisfied with the experience in technology, ecommerce and contributions and time commitment of all finance are keyrequirements for future theNon-Executive Directors during the year.
We conducted a specific review of those Directors who had been in office for more DIVERSITY than six years.
The Committee was confident The Boards policy on diversity commits that each of the Non-Executive Directors WPPto increasing diversity across the remains independent and will be ina position Company and supports the development to discharge their duties and responsibilities and promotion of all talented individuals.
With the exception of As at the date of this report women Ruigang Li who is retiring from the Board comprised 33% of the WPP Board and 40% andMark Read and Cindy Rose whose of Non-Executive Directors including the appointments are being ratified for the Senior Independent Director.
firsttime, all the Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM with the support ofthe Board.
OUR BOARD A DIVERSE MIX OF SKILLS, EXPERIENCE AND KNOWLEDGE SKILLS TENURE 10 10 03 years 3 8 36 years 6 7 7 69 years 2 5 9 years 1 FMCG Corporate Finance Global Private Technology governance media & equity advertising GEOGRAPHICAL EXPERIENCE GENDER 12 11 Male 8 10 Female 4 6 5 5 Africa & Asia Europe International Latin North Middle Pacic America America East Information as at the date of this report 93 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUCCESSION PLANNING Following the resignation of SirMartin Sorrell, PROCESS OF APPOINTING THE NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE the Nomination and Governance SETTING ROLE IDENTIFYING Committeeestablished a succession REQUIREMENTS CANDIDATES PROCESS RECRUITMENT planning subcommittee, tasked with With input from the Russell Reynolds The succession planning It was concluded that appointing a new CEO for the Company.
Board, shareholders, identified internal subcommittee met the Company already Thesubcommittee was supported by Russell clients and senior candidates, and also frequently and had the strongest Reynolds Associates, which is independent management, the undertook an extensive extensively discussed candidate internally and of and only provides recruitment services to Nomination and search process to the merits of the external that making an internal the Company.
Russell Reynolds had already Governance Committee identify potential and internal candidates appointment would best been engaged by the Nomination and prepared a detailed candidates in the and interviewed those serve the Company and specification for the role external market.
Internal with the most potential.
the structural challenges Governance Committee on its executive of CEO, specifying the candidates were it faced.
succession planning, prior to the resignation skills, knowledge, evaluated against of Sir Martin Sorrell.
The Board agreed with experience and external candidates as the subcommittees attributes required.
part of a benchmarking In October 2018, Paul Richardson, Group recommendation and as exercise.
a result Mark Read was Finance Director, informed the Board that he appointed as CEO on would step down during the course of 2019.
The Nomination and Governance Committee is overseeing the search for his successor, PROCESS OF APPOINTING THE NEW GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR with the assistance ofSpencer Stuart SETTING ROLE IDENTIFYING Associates.
REQUIREMENTS CANDIDATES PROCESS RECRUITMENT With input from the Spencer Stuart The subcommittee has An update will be Board, shareholders, Associates is assisting reviewed the shortlist provided as soon as clients and senior with the search for and has identified a ispractical.
management, the candidates and has number of candidates for Nomination and prepared a shortlist of interview.
Interviews Governance Committee internal and external have focused on each prepared a detailed candidates that are most candidates skills and specification for the role suited to the role experience for the role.
For further details on the succession planning Director, specifying the subcommittee and Non-Executive Director skills, knowledge, succession planning, see our Nomination and experience and Governance Committee report on page 98. attributes required.
INDUCTION AND TRAINING INDUCTION FOR NEW CEO PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND The Board continued to receive regular As Mark Read clearly knows our business well DIRECTOR TRAINING reports building greater awareness of our and has previously served as a Director of The Board held a number of specific businesses and the legal, regulatory and WPP plc, his induction focused on how the knowledge development sessions during the industry-specific challenges it faces.
This is role and responsibility as a director of a year on such issues as technology disruption complemented by Board meetings being listed company has evolved and and economic and sustainable risk factors held in our co-location sites whichenables developments in governance since he was impacting a number of our major clients, with greater contact with the businesses and an last on the Board such as the new UK CEOs and CMOs from our clients attending opportunity to meet with senior and local Corporate Governance Code, stakeholder Board sessions to share their insights.
engagement and the NYSE and SEC Board received training on the new UK regulatory environment.
Corporate Governance Code from the Group BOARD INDUCTION Chief Counsel and a detailed briefing on On completion of the induction programme, Brexit from GlobalCounsel.
all new Directors should have sufficient knowledge and understanding of the The Board also refreshed its view of business to enable them to effectively enterprise risk management this year contribute to strategic discussions and andcarried out a session on risk and risk oversight ofthe operations and the work appetitewith EY and this programme ofthe Committees theyare joining.
94 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION PROCESS OUR BOARD KEY AREAS OF FOCUS In line with the UK Corporate Governance EVALUATION PROCESS Code, it is the Boards policy to undertake an externally facilitated Board performance OBSERVE evaluation every three years.
Attendance as an observer at all Board and BOARD Committee meetings in December 2018.
STRUCTURE The 2018 Board performance evaluation wasexternally facilitated by Dr Long of ENGAGE Boardroom Review Limited who has no other connection with the Company.
Dr Long ENGAGEMENT One-on-one meetings with all Board undertook the previous externally facilitated WITH STRATEGY members, as well as: review in 2015, which was completed in 2016.
Company Secretary Chief Operating Officer COMMITTEES AND In addition to the Board evaluation, Dr Long Group Chief Counsel THEIR OPERATION also evaluated the performance ofthe: including establishing Chairman an executive EVALUATE Senior Independent Director committee Chair of all three Board Committees The work of the Board, individual and INDUCTION AND collective contribution and use of time and DEVELOPMENT quality of information.
Dr Long has attended Board and Committee meetings as an observer and has held one-on-one discussions with each Director, FEEDBACK SHAREHOLDER the Company Secretary, Group Chief AND STAKEHOLDER A discussion document and individual Counsel and Chief Operating Officer.
COMMUNICATION feedback sessions followed by verbal feedback presented by Dr Long at a session of the Board.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL OUTCOMES CHAIRMANS EVALUATION KEY RECOMMENDATIONS FOR 2019 The Board has effective leadership in place, Following the CEO succession process, the with strong support for and relationships Chairman is transitioning the Board through BOARD COMPOSITION The Boards contribution is between the Chairman, CEO, the Senior aperiod of change and transformation and dependenton ability to add Independent Director and Committee developing a supportive relationship with strategic relevance, diversity Chairs.
Following the CEO appointment, the new CEO.
There are constructive of perspective and governance theBoard is engaging with the strategic relationships between the Chairman, the expertise and shouldconstantly process and transformation agenda.
Senior Independent Director and the evolvethe Boardsskills mix.
Alongside the CEO, who is rebuilding the Committee Chairs and in collaboration with leadership team and resetting its culture, the CEO, the Chairman is redeveloping the SUPPORTING THE TRANSFORMATION theBoard is developing metrics for Boards modus operandi.
Continuous level of domain performance, development and succession.
knowledgeand visibility of the changing landscape.
There is an increased focus on cyber and information security and geographic risk, CONTINUED FOCUS and strong leadership from the Audit ON THE RISK FRAMEWORK Committee on the risk and control The transformation will demand framework.
There is open communication continued focus on risk, enterprise with shareholders and preparationfor resilience and the global potential challenges in 2019. complianceframework from theBoardand its Committees.
95 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HOW OUR BOARD ENGAGES OUR APPROACH TO ENGAGEMENT During the year, and particularly in relation to A CHANGING STAKEHOLDER The success of our business is dependent the development of our new strategy, we have ENVIRONMENT upon our ability to understand and respond engaged with key stakeholders, as set out on As our industry continues to change, so too tothe needs of the various stakeholders the following page.
has the way in which we interact with our connected with WPP.
The line that separates client, our Board considers which course of action Looking ahead, we plan to expand our stakeholder, partner and competitor has best leads to the success of the Company engagement activities.
We are supportive of become increasingly blurred, as they are all overthe long term, which requires an the new requirements contained within the interconnected.
Google is a client, supplier understanding of how our decisions impact new UK Corporate Governance Code and and competitor, for example.
regulations and will report against these asrequired next year.
ENGAGEMENT IN ACTION SHAREHOLDERS morethan ever but they are seeking the United States.
The creation of VMLY&R servicesbeyond our traditional strengths and Wunderman Thompson is an important During the year, we have engaged extensively incommunications.
Our new strategy was part of that plan, as is the additional with shareholders and the most frequently developed specifically to respond to these investment in creative leadership talent.
asked shareholder questions are set out below.
challenges, and is set out from page 42.
What are you most concerned about 5 Other topics we engaged on in 2018 Are clients inhousing media or creative and consultants, inhousing or Google 3 included our preparation for GDPR and data how are you responding?
ethics, Brexit, our sustainability credentials, While there is an increase in demand from The technology firms are vying with us workforce engagement and Diversity and some clients to bring our people closer to fortalent and attention, but the direct Inclusion D&I.
them, on-site, in-housing is not at the heart competitive threat of Google, Facebook of the economics of WPP.
In-housing is andAlibaba is overstated.
They are difficult and, particularly in media and digital important partners to WPP.
TOP 5 QUESTIONS FROM SHAREHOLDERS media, the challenges of recruiting, retaining and training people should not be underConsulting firms have expanded rapidly Describe the competitive environment and 1 estimated.
It is worth remembering that intoareas in which we compete.
We need if there is intense pricing behaviour Essence, part of GroupM, is Googles digital torecognise that new competition, be O ur competitive environment is described media planning and buying agency.
It buys readyfor it and promote our existing from page 36.
Our industry has always been the media for Google on Google.
consulting and technology capabilities competitive on pricing as wellas quality, moreeffectively.
As above, in-housing is butwe believe the client should pay us a fair Why are you losing share in the US and how notcurrently at the heart of the economics amount for the services that we provide and 4 will you turn your largest market around?
our view on that has notchanged.
In the past we have been too slow to adapt, become too complicated and have Why are the creative agencies suffering and 2 under-invested in core parts of our business.
Core to our strategy is addressing our The role of traditional agencies is being under-performing operations, particularly in challenged.
Clients want our creativity WORKFORCE In 2018 we set up our first employee forum inthe UK.
We will roll this out to more markets starting with India, China and Turkey.
The views and ideas raised through these forums will be shared with the two Non-Executive Directors, Sally Susman andDaniela Riccardi, who are responsible forworkforce engagement.
We use ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR OUR ROLE IS TO HELP THE BOARD employee surveys to assess employee PEOPLE IS A KEY PART OF UNDERSTAND THE VIEWS AND engagement and satisfaction and in 2019 OURNEW CULTURE.
weplan to launch a Company-wide employee survey.
Daniela Riccardi Sally Susman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 96 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 HOW OUR BOARD ENGAGES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OUR ENGAGEMENT DURING 2018 The following table summarises our key stakeholders, as well as the engagement that has been undertaken across the business during the year: STAKEHOLDER GROUP HOW WE ENGAGED IN 2018 SHAREHOLDERS At the WPP investor day in December we updated Our 2018 AGM was well attended, and all proposed Engagement with our shareholders is an ongoing investors and financial analysts on the new strategy resolutions passed.
The AGM gave our shareholders process and particularly through a year of change for the Company.
The presentations remain on our the opportunity to pose questions directly to the of CEO and the launch of our new strategy.
We website, together with updates on our progress.
We provided live webcasts of our AGM and have engaged with major shareholders and analysts investor day which allowed for engagement by all We held meetings with all major shareholders at meetings with our Chairman, Committee Chairs, shareholders, regardless of location.
through the CEO succession process and launch of new CEO and our investor relations team, at our the new strategy, in major cities in the UK, US and Our investor relations team responded to daily investor day, AGM and through webcasts and Europe and attended all the major conferences in questions from shareholders and analysts and we ongoing email exchanges.
have listed some of these on page 96.
PEOPLE During the year, we launched our employee forum.
discuss how we could continuously improve our We depend on the talent, creative abilities and Further details can be found on page 96. culture and working practices.
technical skills of our people.
To attract and Our HR surveys covered 75% of employees, giving We launched The Weekly in 2018, an email of the retainthe best and most forward-thinking talent, us an informed picture of how our employees feel latest news, work and thinking across WPP for we are focused on embedding our new culture, about the Company some of the key results are allour people worldwide, and relaunched the improving diversity and inclusion and investing in summarised in our Sustainability Report.
We also Company website and intranet with an emphasis skills and creativity.
carried out 1,267 consultations with works councils onour people and their work.
about initiatives impacting our employees.
We offered a wide range of initiatives and training Mark Read communicated directly with employees programmes to our people including mentoring, through all-staff emails and video on the new volunteering, apprenticeships, training programmes strategy, new hires, client wins and the new culture.
with our partners at Amazon and Adobe, GroupM University, SAFER DATA, Stella and the WPP Africa We created the first WPP Executive Committee in Academy and the WPP School of Communications 2018 and held a number of D&I forums bringing in Mumbai to give just a few examples.
together people from across our Company to CLIENTS AND PARTNERS During the year this included client presentations ournew strategy and the changes taking place in Our clients are in many cases also our partners atour Board meetings and client participation in our market and understanding the changes taking providing services to our Company and may also events, such as our WPP investor day and place in our clients and suppliers markets, our beour competitors.
We are constantly engaging strategyconference.
Our people participated in preparations for and impact of GDPR and our SAFER through our Client Team Leaders, our respective multiple joint hackathons with Amazon and Google DATA training, the issues raised by Brexit for our CEOs, participation in collaborative training, our during the year focused on new products and Company and people and the due diligence unconference event Stream, joint sustainability and workflow innovation.
undertaken on our supply chain, diversity and pro bono initiatives and on shared policy initiatives inclusion, transparency in our media businesses, The issues we engaged with our clients and such as the Business Against Slavery forum.
brand safety and sustainability initiatives.
partners on in 2018 included CEO succession, GOVERNMENT NGOs We are a founding member of the Business Against Womens Empowerment Principles and We engage with governments, regulators and Slavery Forum in conjunction with the Modern participated in the Workforce Disclosure Initiative.
NGOs to inform the policy frameworks that affect Slavery Unit at the UK Home Office and participated We also launched Creativity for Equality, a strategic our Company, clients, investments and competitive in the forum throughout the year.
partnership with UN Women to help positively environment and support our strategic goals.
impact the lives of girls and women.
We are a member of the United Nations Global Compact and have continued our Common Ground We responded to numerous government collaboration with the six marketing services consultations including, in the UK, the Kingman groups and the UN, using the power of review of the FRC, the Insolvency and Corporate communication to accelerate progress towards Governance consultation, the UK Immigration White gender equality.
We are a signatory to the Paper andthe Good Work consultation papers.
INDEXES TRADING ASSOCIATIONS We are members of the IPA in the UK and the 4Asin We also participated in the Corporate We have representatives on our industry bodies the US and engaged on topics such as transparency EqualityIndex and the Corporate Political inthe markets in which we operate who engaged in media trading and brand safety.
on issues that affect our people, clients and in the Business Disability Forum, Business in the competitors.
We contributed during the year Community and the CBI, particularly related to their toindexes that provide meaningful data on workstream around Brexit.
