CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT Committee members: DEAR SHAREHOLDER EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Roberto Quarta Chairman I am pleased to present the Nomination Following the resignation of Sir Martin Sorrell, Ruigang Li andGovernance Committee report which the Committee established a succession Daniela Riccardi reviews our significant work over the past planning subcommittee comprising me as Nicole Seligman year, the focusof which has been the Chairman, Nicole Seligman, Jacques Aigrain appointed 17 April 2018 succession of the Executive Directors, and Sally Susman.
Sally Susman Boardcomposition and succession planningfor Non-Executive Directors and Further details of the succession planning senior management to supportthe process for Executive Directors in 2018 can Highlights CEO and Group Finance Director transformation plan.
be found on page 94. succession Focus on Board composition BOARD AND COMMITTEE CHANGES NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS andsuccession to support the 2018 was a year of great change for the Russell Reynolds has assisted the Committee transformation plan Company following the resignation of Sir during the search process for new NonFirst year of TCFD disclosures Martin Sorrell.
I became Executive Chairman Executive Directors, to find those candidates for an interim period while we followed a who have the skills and experience to align succession process to identify our new Chief the Boards composition with the Companys Key responsibilities Executive Officer, Mark Read.
strategic objectives andtransformation plan Evaluates Board composition andensures Board diversity whilst increasing ourdiversity.
andabalance of skills The Group Finance Director, Paul Richardson, Reviews executive succession announced his intention to retire during the SUCCESSION PLANNING plansto maintain continuity course of 2019 and the succession process In addition to succession planning for Board ofskilled resource for his role is well advanced with the roles, the Committee received presentations Oversees matters relating assistance of Spencer Stuart Associates, from the new Chief Executive Officer on tocorporate governance which is independent of the Company.
succession planning for senior management andsustainability to support the transformation plan.
The Following the 2018 AGM, Hugo Shong retired Committee monitors a schedule on the from the Board and this Committee and length of tenure, skills, experience and Nicole Seligman became a member of this diversity of the Board.
ACTION PLAN NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Ruigang Li has served on our Board for nearly For 2019 the Committee plans to continue APPOINTMENT PROCESS nine years and will not stand for re-election the focus on the Group Finance Director at the AGM in 2019.
We are seeking a new recruitment and review succession plans Engage with search consultancy Non-Executive Director with similar levels forthe Board and key roles across the STEP 1 and provide them with a ofexperience of the Chinese market.
business, as well as employee engagement searchspecification and sustainability initiatives.
As part of our ongoing succession planning for the Board, the Committee is delighted to GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY Shortlisting candidates STEP 2 welcome Cindy Rose as a new Non-Executive The Committee oversees the governance byCommittee Director to the Board and the Audit and sustainability agenda on behalf of the Committee effective 1 April 2019.
Board and received updates on corporate governance developments and the Interview process with STEP 3 COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS sustainability strategy during the year Committeemembers and The externally facilitated Board performance andhas considered the impact of those ChiefExecutive Officer evaluation concluded that the Committee developments and strategy on the Company.
operated well and has managed a Recommendation to the Board STEP 4 challenging and significant level of change onthe chosen candidate inthe Board during this past year.
Appointment terms drafted APPOINTMENT PROCESS STEP 5 andagreed with the When considering the recruitment of new Roberto Quarta selectedcandidate Directors, the Committee adopts a formal Chairman of the Nomination and transparent process with due regard to and Governance Committee the skills, knowledge and level of experience 10 April 2019 required including geographic experience and diversity.
