249336 WWH pp32-pp39 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 32 Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 32 to 39, forms part of the Report of the Directors on pages 28 to 30.
The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of Corporate Governance.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Financial Reporting Council has confirmed that by following the AIC Code and the AIC Guide, boards of investment companies will meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
The AIC Code and AIC Guide address the principles set out in the UK Code as well as additional principles and recommendations on issues that are specific to investment trusts.
The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of 21 principles split into three sections covering: The Board Board Meetings and relations with OrbiMed and Frostrow Shareholder Communications Statement of Compliance The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as follows: The UK Code includes certain provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
Therefore, with the exception of the need for an internal audit function which is addressed further on page 40, the Company has not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 32 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp32-pp39 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 33 Governance Corporate Governance The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should be The Chairman, Sir Martin Smith, continues to be independent of the AIFM and the independent.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the AIFM, the Portfolio Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
A majority of the Board should The Board consists of six non-executive Directors.
With the exception of Sven Borho, be independent of the allDirectors are considered by the Board to be independent of the AIFM and the manager.
No member of the Board is a Director of another investment company managed by Frostrow or OrbiMed, nor with the exception of Samuel D. Isaly, until 12 January 2018, the date he ceased to be a Director of the Company, and Sven Borho has any Board member been an employee of the Company, OrbiMed, Frostrow or any of its service providers.
Sir Martin Smith and Dr David Holbrook have both served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
Given the strongly independent mindsets of Sir Martin Smith and Dr Holbrook, the Board is firmly of the view that they can be considered independent.
Directors should be submitted for All Directors submit themselves for annual election or re-election by shareholders.
The individual performance of each Director standing for election or re-election is Nomination for re-election evaluated annually by the remaining members of the Board and, if considered should not be assumed but be appropriate, a recommendation is made that shareholders vote in favour of their based on disclosed procedures election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
and continued satisfactory Sven Borho joined the Board on 7 June 2018.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing his performance.
appointment as a Director of the Company will be considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 September 2018.
The Board should have a policy The Nominations Committee considers the structure of the Board and recognises the on tenure, which is disclosed in need for progressive refreshment.
The Board subscribes to the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an independent majority.
It does not consider that a Directors tenure necessarily reduces their ability to act independently and, following formal performance evaluations, believes that each of the independent Directors is independent in character and judgment and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect their judgment.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
In view of its non-executive nature, the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term, although new Directors are appointed with the expectation that they will serve for a minimum period of three years subject to shareholder approval.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request at the office of the Companys AIFM and at the Annual General Meeting.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 33 249336 WWH pp32-pp39 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 34 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 5.
There should be full The Directors biographical details, set out on pages 26 and 27 demonstrate the wide disclosure of information range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
Details of the Boards Committees and their composition are set out on page 38 of this annual report.
The Board should aim to The Nominations Committee considers annually the skills possessed by the Board and have a balance of skills, identifies any skill shortages to be filled by new Directors.
Following a skills audit carried out during the year it was agreed that the Board was equipped with the experience, length of necessary skills and experience required for the sound stewardship of the Company service and knowledge of and to enable the Directors to hold meaningful debates at its meetings.
considering new appointments, the Committee reviews the skills of the Directors and seeks to add persons with complementary skills or who possess the skills and experience which fill any gaps in the Boards knowledge or experience and who can devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in their biographies set out on pages 26 and 27.
The Companys policy on diversity is set out on page 25.
The Board should During the year an external independent review of the Board, its committees and individual Directors was carried out by an independent third party, Lintstock.
undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation The Board reviewed the report from Lintstock in June 2018 and the Chairman is of its own performance and leading on implementing those changes recommended by the report that the Board that of its committees and considered should be made.
The review concluded that the Board worked in a individual directors.
collegiate efficient and effective manner, and did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
The Board is satisfied that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be effective and relevant for the Company.
Further independent review will be commissioned in 2021.
Director remuneration The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee reviews the fees paid to the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the Companys peer group and should reflect their duties, the investment trust industry generally, taking into account the level of commitment responsibilities and the and responsibility of each Board member.
Details on the remuneration arrangements value of their time spent.
for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 45.
Individual Directors take no part in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
The Board periodically takes advice from external independent advisers on Directors remuneration.
The Independent Directors Subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Nominations Committee are entitled to vote on candidates for the appointment of new Directors and should take the lead in the on the recommendation for shareholders approval of the Directors seeking election or appointment of new Directors re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The membership of the Committee and the process should be comprises solely those Directors considered to be independent by the Board.
disclosed in the annual report.
Details of the Boards commitment to diversity are set out on page 25.
The appointment of Sven Borho to the Board was considered and agreed by the independent Directors.
A specialist recruitment firm was not engaged as part of this process.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 34 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp32-pp39 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 35 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 10.
Directors should be New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The offered relevant training programme covers the Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
Directors are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretary, through Frostrow, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information flows between all parties.
The Chairman and the Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is not applicable to Board should be brought the Company.
into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Board Meetings and relations with the Frostrow and OrbiMed 12.
Boards and managers The Board meets regularly throughout the year and a representative of the AIFM and should operate in a the Portfolio Manager is in attendance at each Board meeting.
The Chairman supportive, co-operative encourages open debate to foster a supportive and co-operative approach for all and open environment.
The primary focus at The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the regular board meetings Board.
This includes establishing the investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks, should be a review of the permitted types or categories of investments, the markets in which transactions investment performance may be undertaken, the amount or proportion of the assets that may be invested in any and associated matters, category of investment or in any one investment, and the Companys share issuance such as gearing, asset and share buy-back policies.
allocation, marketing The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial investor relations, peer data, revenue projections and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and group information and performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and industry issues.
shareholder communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
Boards should give The Board is responsible for strategy and has established an annual programme of sufficient attention to agenda items under which it reviews the objectives and strategy for the Company at overall strategy.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 35 249336 WWH pp32-pp39 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 36 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 15.
The Board should The Board has delegated the following activities to its committees: regularly review both the The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year performance of, and and reviews the performance of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
This Committee contractual arrangements considers the quality, cost and remuneration method including the performance fee of with, the AIFM and the the service provided by the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager against their contractual Portfolio manager or obligations.
It also considers the performance analysis provided by the AIFM and the executives of a Portfolio Manager.
The Audit Committee reviews the risk matrix and oversees the risk and control environment of the Company, including monitoring the internal control system in operation at its principal service providers.
Further details can be found on pages 40 to 42.
The Board should agree The Portfolio Management Agreement between the Company, the AIFM and the Portfolio policies with the AIFM and Manager sets out the limits of the Portfolio Managers authority, beyond which Board the Portfolio Manager approval is required.
The Board has agreed detailed guidelines and limits with the AIFM covering key operational and the Portfolio Manager, which are considered at each Board meeting.
Representatives from the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager attend each meeting of the Board to address questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which the Portfolio Manager is required to refer to the Board.
The AIFM has delegated the management of the Companys portfolio and also the voting powers relating to the securities held therein to the Portfolio Manager.
Contentious or sensitive matters are referred to the Board for consideration.
The Board has reviewed the Portfolio Managers Proxy Voting and Class Action Policy which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines.
Reports on commissions paid by the Portfolio Manager are submitted to the Board regularly.
Boards should monitor the The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the level of the share price Companys shares in the market and has put in place a discount control mechanism discount or premium if as described on page 24. any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
The Board should monitor The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee reviews, the performance and evaluate other service of all the Companys third party service providers, including the level and structure of providers.
fees payable and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010, and also regarding the prevention of the facilitation of tax evasion.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 36 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp32-pp39 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 37 Governance Corporate Governance Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The Board should regularly Details of the Company activities undertaken to promote the Company and manage monitor the shareholder relations with shareholders are set out on page 24.
In addition, all shareholders are profile of the company and encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting, where they are given the put in place a system for opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of OrbiMed.
canvassing shareholder Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the views and for communicating Board, may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company the Boards views to Secretary at the offices of Frostrow.
The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
The Board should normally All substantive communications regarding any major corporate issues are discussed by take responsibility for, and the Board taking into account representations from the AIFM and the Portfolio have a direct involvement in, Manager, the Companys Auditors, legal advisers and the Corporate Stockbroker.
the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure The Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and aims that shareholders are to provide them with a full understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy provided with sufficient and activities, its performance and the principal investment risks by means of information for them to informative Annual and Half Year reports.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, understand the risk reward through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
balance to which they are In line with its primary focus, the Board retains responsibility for all key elements of exposed by holding the the Companys strategy and business model.
Further details can be found in the shares.
The Annual Report provides information on the Portfolio Managers investment performance, portfolio risk and, operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in the Strategic Report under Principal Risks on pages 22 to 24 and in note 16 beginning on page 64.
The Portfolio is listed on pages 8 to 10.
com, is regularly updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys financial reports and announcements.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 37 249336 WWH pp32-pp39 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 38 Governance Corporate Governance The Board and Committees Responsibility for effective governance lies with the Board.
The governance framework of the Company reflects the fact that as an Investment Company it has no employees and outsources portfolio management to OrbiMed and risk management, company management, company secretarial, administrative and marketing services to Frostrow.
The Board Chairman Sir Martin Smith Senior Independent Director Dr David Holbrook Four additional non-executive Directors, all considered independent, except for Sven Borho and previously Samuel D. Isaly as noted on page 33.
Key responsibilities: to provide leadership and set strategy, values and standards within a framework of prudent effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: to ensure that a robust corporate governance framework is implemented: and to challenge constructively and scrutinise performance of all outsourced activities.
Management Audit Nominations Engagement & Committee Committee Remuneration Chairman Committee Humphrey van der Klugt, FCA Chairman Chairman All Independent Directors Dr David Holbrook Doug McCutcheon excluding the Chairman, All Independent Directors All Independent Directors Sir Martin Smith Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: to review regularly the to review the Companys to review regularly the Boards contracts, the performance financial reports: structure and composition: and remuneration of the and to oversee the risk and control Companys principal service to make recommendations for environment and financial providers: and any changes or new reporting: and appointments.
to set the Directors to review the performance of Remuneration Policy of the the Companys external Company.
The Directors believe that Humphrey van der Klugt has the necessary recent and relevant financial experience to Chair the Companys Audit Committee.
Copies of the full terms of reference, which clearly define The Board supports the principle that the Annual General the responsibilities of each Committee, can be obtained Meeting be used to communicate with investors, with all from the Company Secretary, will be available for inspection Directors attending the Annual General Meeting, under the at the Annual General Meeting, and can be found at the Chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board.
Details of proxy Companys website at www.
votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting and are also Relations with shareholders published on the Companys website at Details of the Companys activities undertaken to promote www.
the Company and manage relations with shareholders are Representatives from the Portfolio Manager attend the set out on page 24.
Annual General Meeting and give a presentation on investment matters to those present.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 38 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp32-pp39 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 39 Governance Corporate Governance The Company has adopted a nominee share code which is Exercise of voting powers set out later on this page.
The Board and the AIFM have delegated authority to OrbiMed to vote the shares owned by the Company that are held on its The annual and half-year financial reports, and a monthly fact behalf by J. P. Morgan Securities LLC.
The Board has sheet are available to all shareholders.
The Board, with the instructed that OrbiMed submit votes for such shares advice of Frostrow, reviews the format of the annual and wherever possible.
This accords with current best practice half-year financial reports so as to ensure they are useful to all whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
shareholders and others taking an interest in the Company.
In OrbiMed may refer to the Board on any matters of a accordance with best practice, the annual report, including the contentious nature.
The Company does not retain voting rights Notice of the Annual General Meeting, is sent to shareholders on any shares that are held as collateral in connection with at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate the overdraft facility provided by J. P. Morgan Securities LLC.
resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
Annual General Meeting Nominee share code THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION TO BE DISCUSSED AT THE Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the FORTHCOMING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IS Company undertakes: IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you shareholder communications, so long as an indication of should seek advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, quantities has been provided in advance: solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised to allow investors holding shares through a nominee under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as company to attend general meetings, provided the amended.
If you have sold or transferred all of your correct authority from the nominee company is available: ordinary shares in the Company, you should pass this and document, together with any other accompanying documents, including the form of proxy, at once to the that investors in the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme or purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or ISA are automatically sent shareholder communications, other agent through whom the sale or transfer was including details of general meetings, together with a effected, for onward transmission to the purchaser form of direction to facilitate voting and to seek authority or transferee.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual necessary authority to underlying shareholders to attend the General Meeting.
Resolution 10 Authority to allot shares Resolution 11 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights By order of the Board Resolution 12 Authority to sell shares held in Treasury on a non pre-emptive basis Frostrow Capital LLP Resolution 13 Authority to buy back shares Company Secretary Resolution 14 Authority to hold General Meetings other than 15 June 2018 the Annual General Meeting on at least 14 clear days notice.
The full text of the resolutions can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 77 to 81.
Explanatory notes regarding the resolutions can be found on pages 82 and 83.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 39
