CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Highlights MEMBERS AND MEETINGS Regular consideration of the risk Instigated a detailed risk The members of the Committee during 2018 dashboard and risk map for presentation management review to evolve were Jacques Aigrain Committee Chairman, to the Board.
Reviewing the Groups risk the Companys enterprise risk Solomon D. Sol Trujillo and Tarek Farahat.
management processes, including the management process establishment of Risk Committees at Carried out an in-depth review The Committee held 10 meetings during the network level: ofthe internal audit function year, which were attended by Deloitte LLP Reviewing the Group Treasury policy with andthe continued compliance the Companys external auditors, a particular focus on debtors, working with Section 404 of SOX Deloitte, the Companys Chairman, the capital and cash management and the Oversaw the selection of a new Deloitte lead audit partner and Senior Independent Director, the Group continued ability of the Group to adopt the associated transition period Finance Director, the Chief Executive Officer, the going concern basis in preparing the the Chief Operating Officer, the Director of financial statements: Internal Audit, the Group Chief Counsel, the Reviewing reports on any material Key responsibilities Group Chief Accountant and the Company litigation or regulatory reviews involving Reviews the integrity, adequacy Secretary.
Individual attendance by the Group companies: and effectiveness of the Groups Committee members during 2018 is set out Reviewing the Groups mergers and system of internal control, inthe table on page 92. acquisitions strategy, reviewing the including the risk management analytical integrity for material M&A framework and related complianceactivities The Committee also held separate private transactions and the earn-out payments meetings with Deloitte, the Director of profile of previous acquisitions.
Reviewing Internal Audit and the Group Chief Counsel.
integration processes: The Committee Chairman held pre-meetings Reviewing the Groups tax position and its with Deloitte and regular meetings with the UK tax strategy and reviewing the impact Companys Directors of Internal Audit, Tax of any significant changes in tax laws: and Treasury and the Group Chief Counsel.
Monitoring the accounting and legal The Committee Chairman has an ongoing reporting requirements applicable to the dialogue with the Group Finance Director, Company, including all relevant regulations the Group Chief Accountant, the Director of the UK Listing Authority, the SEC, the ofInternal Audit and the Director of Tax and NYSE and the Jersey Financial Services reports to the Board, as a separate agenda Commission and the provisions of the UK item, on the activities of the Committee at Corporate Governance Code: the following Board meeting.
Reviewing the implementation of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES from Contracts with Customers, adopted ANDHOW THEY WERE DISCHARGED from 1 January 2018 and the future IN 2018 implementation of IFRS 16 Leases from The key responsibilities of the Committee 1January 2019: during 2018 were as follows: Overseeing the Groups continued Monitoring the integrity of the Groups compliance with Section 404 of SOX, financial statements and reviewing setting the SOX agenda, considering significant financial reporting judgements: andapproving audit plans and Reviewing and monitoring the Groups monitoringthrough regular status internal control framework and the reportssubmitted by the Director of activities and effectiveness of the Groups Internal Auditand Deloitte: internal audit function: Reviewing the continued implementation Assisting the Board in meeting its of the Groups IT transformation project responsibilities in carrying out a robust and reviewing the Groups co-location and assessment of the principal risks facing shared services initiatives: and theGroup and reviewing and reporting Reviewing matters reported on the onthe systems and key elements of risk Groups Right to Speak helpline, the management as they affect the Group: investigations into such matters and the actions taken by the Group in response.
99 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FAIR, BALANCED AND AREA OF FOCUS ACTIONS TAKEN CONCLUSION UNDERSTANDABLE The assessments made for goodwill The Committee received detailed reports and presentations A subcommittee of the Board including impairment testing purposes.
from management and challenged managements assumptions members of the Committee examined and goodwill impairment assessment model, with a particular whether the Annual Report & Accounts for focus on VMLY&R in the current year given relative sensitivity.
2018 was fair, balanced and understandable The Committee Chairman met with management and Deloitte and provided the information necessary for to consider the goodwill impairment assessments further.
shareholders to assess the Groups position, Based on managements expectations of future performance performance, business model and strategy.
ofcertain businesses and consideration of sensitivity, the The subcommittee received an early final Committee was satisfied with the appropriateness of the draft of the report for review and comment analysis performed by management and the level of disclosure and a report from the Disclosure Committee and goodwill impairment charges recognised in 2018. relating to the composition of the report.
The Board subsequently considered the The judgements made in respect of The Committee considered information from management report as a whole and discussed the reports the release of provisions related to summarising the judgements taken in addition to the results tone, balance and language for compliance other media income.
oftesting undertaken by Deloitte to support the judgements with these standards.
The Boards statement made and agreed those were appropriate.
The valuations of non-controlled The Committee examined the valuations with management FINANCIAL REPORTING AND investments and unlisted associates.
which are based on local management forecasts, recent third-party investment and or other supporting information SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENTS such as industry valuation multiples.
The Committee The Companys management team make key considered the sample testing of the investments performed decisions and accounting judgements in the byDeloitte and agreed that the valuations were appropriate.
process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The key judgements were detailed The accuracy of forecasting the The Committee considered the forecasting with management in reports and presentations by management potential future payments due and the testing undertaken by Deloitte and agreed that to the Committee during 2018, which were under earnout agreements in earnouts have been accounted for appropriately.
examined by the Committee and discussed respect of acquired businesses.
The valuation of year-end provisions The Committee received briefings on the approach taken by Deloitte also reported to and discussed with in respect of working capital.
management in assessing the level of exposure across the the Committee whether suitable accounting Group and considered Deloittes audit procedures in this policies had been adopted in the financial respect.
The Committee concluded that managements approach was appropriate.
statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 and whether management had made Accounting for the judgemental The Committee agreed that the assumptions applied by appropriate estimates and judgements.
elements of remuneration, including management are reasonable.
pensions, bonus accruals, severances The areas of significant judgement and share-based payments.
considered by the Committee in respect of the financial statements for the year ended The judgements made in respect of The Committee supported managements assumptions in 31 December 2018 and how these were tax, in particular the level of central boththese areas and believe the current level of provisions addressed are set out below and reflect a tax provisioning.
number of the principal risk areas identified by the Board on pages 80-83.
The going concern assessment and The Committee concur with managements going concern, viability statement and key forecast viability and forecasting assumptions as set out on page 79. assumptions.
The judgements made as to The Committee considered managements assessment of whether the Kantar group theconditions that must be satisfied in order to conclude a constituted a disposal group held disposal group is held for sale and agreed with managements for sale for the purposes of IFRS 5. application of the guidance and ultimate conclusion that those conditions were not satisfied.
Recognition of restructuring and The Committee reviewed managements key accounting transformation costs.
judgements and procedures in this area and the testing carried out by Deloitte.
The Committee was satisfied with the quantum of costs recognised in 2018 and the presentation of such costs in the financial statements.
100 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL AUDIT INTERNAL AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Deloitte has been the Groups auditors since The annual internal audit plan is approved by AND EVALUATION 2002.
The lead audit partner rotates every the Committee at the beginning of the The Committee and its members were five years.
After five years in post, Richard financial year.
Progress against the plan is formally assessed by the Nomination and Muschamp will step down as the Groups monitored through the year and any Governance Committee as part of the review lead audit partner and the Committee significant changes to the plans require of Committee composition in 2018 and as welcomes Rob Topley as his replacement in Committee approval.
Significant issues part of the externally facilitated evaluation respect of accounting periods commencing identified within internal audit reports are process described on page 95 for their from 1 January 2019.
The Committee oversaw considered in detail along with the technical suitability to be members and also the selection of the new lead partner and the remediation plans to resolve those issues.
The Board has associated transition process.
In 2018, the The Committee also considers the level of designated the Committee Chairman as the effectiveness of the audit process was internal audit resource to ensure it is Committees financial expert for Sarbanesevaluated through a Committee review of appropriate to provide the right level of Oxley Act SOX purposes and together with the audit planning process and discussions assurance over the principal risks and Tarek Farahat as having recent and relevant with key members of the Groups finance controls throughout the Group.
The financial experience for the purposes of the function.
The Committee considered the Committee Chairman holds pre-meetings UK Corporate Governance Code and Audit Quality Reviews 2017 18 Audit Quality with the Director of Internal Audit and competence in accounting or audit for the Inspection Report on Deloitte and the regular update meetings, to ensure the purposes of DTR 7.1.
The members of the actions taken by Deloitte to address the internal audit function has adequate standing Committee are considered by the Board to findings in the report.
The 2018 evaluations and is free from management restrictions be independent and when considered as a concluded that there continued to be a good and has direct access to the Committee whole have competence relevant to the quality audit process and constructive ifrequired.
sectors in which the Company operates, challenge where necessary to ensure andhave financial and or financial services balanced reporting.
The Committee held NON-AUDIT FEES experience as set out on pages 90 and 91. private meetings with Deloitte and the The Committee has established a policy Committee Chairman met privately with regarding non-audit services that may be Cindy Rose has been appointed as an Deloitte before each meeting.
The provided by Deloitte, which prohibits certain additional member of the Committee with Committee continues to be satisfied with the categories of work in line with relevant effect from 1 April 2019. performance of Deloitte and confirms that guidance on independence, such as the FRC Deloitte continues to be objective and revised ethical standards and ethical TERMS OF REFERENCE independent.
The Committee recommends standards issued by the SEC.
The prohibited The Committees terms of reference are the reappointment of Deloitte at the AGM on categories of work include advice on adopted by the Board and reviewed annually 12 June 2019. remuneration and on tax services being by the Committee, most recently on provided by Deloitte in the European Union 21March 2019.
A copy of the Committees The Committee considered the Groups and a general default to an alternative terms of reference is available on the position on its audit services contract in the provider elsewhere subject to adherence to Companys website at wpp.
com about context of the regulations concerning the regulations.
Other categories of work may corporate-governance.
Although there is no immediate be provided by the auditors if appropriate intention to tender the audit contract, the and if pre-approved by the Committee, Company will re-tender at the latest by the either as individual assignments or as 2022 year-end in compliance with the aggregate amounts for specified categories transitional arrangements for competitive of services.
All fees are summarised tender that require mandatory rotation after periodically for the Committee to assess Jacques Aigrain the 2023 fiscal year-end.
theaggregate value of non-audit fees Chairman of the Audit Committee againstaudit fees.
The level of fees for 10 April 2019 The Company confirms that it has complied 2018is shown in note 3 of the financial with the Competition and Markets Authority statementson page 135. final order on mandatory tendering and Audit Committee responsibilities.
