qxp 03 07 2018 12:27 Page 40 Governance Audit Committee Report authorises such on a case by case basis, having Introduction from the Chairman consideration to the cost effectiveness of the services and I am pleased to present my formal report to shareholders as the independence and objectivity of the Auditors.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, for the year ended 31 March 2018.
To consider the need for an internal audit function.
Since the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third Composition and Meetings parties and has no employees, the Audit Committee has determined there is no requirement for such a function.
The Committee comprises those Directors considered to be independent by the Board.
The Chairman of the Board is not The Audit Committees terms of reference are available for a member of the Committee but will attend meetings by review on the Companys website at www.
Attendance by each Director is shown in the table on page 27.
The Board has taken note of the requirements Significant Issues Considered by the Audit that the Committee as a whole should have competence Committee during the year relevant to the sector in which the Company operates and Financial Statements that at least one member of the Committee should have The Board has asked the Committee to confirm that in its recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee is opinion the Board can make the required statement that the satisfied that the Committee is properly constituted in both Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and respects.
I was appointed Chairman of the Committee in understandable and provides the information necessary for 2016 and am a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered shareholders to assess the Companys financial position, Accountants in England and Wales, I am also the Chairman performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee of the Audit Committee of two other public companies: the has given this confirmation on the basis of its review of the other Committee members have a combination of financial, whole document, underpinned by involvement in the investment and other relevant experience gained throughout planning for its preparation and review of the processes to their careers.
assure the accuracy of factual content.
Responsibilities Significant Reporting Matters The Audit Committees main responsibilities during the year were: Overall accuracy of the Annual Report The Audit Committee dealt with this matter by considering 1.
To review the Companys half-year and annual report.
In the draft Annual Report, a letter from Frostrow in support of particular, the Audit Committee considered whether the the letter of representation made by the Board to the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, Auditors and the Auditors Report to the Audit Committee.
allowing shareholders to more easily assess the Companys strategy, investment policy, business model Valuation and ownership of the Companys and financial performance.
investments and derivatives The Audit Committee dealt with this matter by: 2.
To review the risk management and internal control processes of the Company and its key service providers.
ensuring that all investment holdings and cash deposit Further details of the Audit Committees review are balances had been agreed to an independent included in the Internal Controls and Risk Management confirmation from the custodian or relevant counterparty: section on page 41. reconfirming its understanding of the processes in place to record investment transactions and income, and to 3.
To recommend the appointment of external Auditors, value the portfolio: agreeing the scope of its work and its remuneration, reviewing its independence and the effectiveness of thereviewing and amending, where necessary, the audit process.
Companys register of key risks in light of changes to the portfolio and the investment environment: 4.
To consider any non-audit work to be carried out by the gaining an overall understanding of the performance of Auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews the need for the portfolio both in capital and revenue terms through non-audit services to be provided by the Auditors and comparison to the Benchmark: and Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 40 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp40-pp51.
qxp 03 07 2018 12:27 Page 41 Governance Audit Committee Report conducting a review of how the Companys derivative considered the Companys operations in the light of the positions were monitored.
following factors: the nature of the Company, with all management Other Reporting Matters functions outsourced to third party service providers: Calculation of AIFM, Portfolio Management and the nature and extent of risks which it regards as Performance fees acceptable for the Company to bear within its overall The AIFM, Portfolio Management and Performance fees are investment objective: calculated in accordance with the AIFM and Portfolio the threat of such risks becoming a reality: and Management Agreements.
The Auditors independently recalculate any performance fee prior to payment.
Thethe Companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact Auditors also recalculate the AIFM and Portfolio of risk on its performance.
Management fee as part of the audit.
Against this background, a risk matrix has been developed which covers all key risks the Company faces, the likelihood Taxation The Committee approached and dealt with ensuring of their occurrence and their potential impact, how these compliance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act risks are monitored and mitigating controls in place.
The 2010, by seeking confirmation that the Company continues Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the to meet the eligibility conditions on a monthly basis.
responsibility for the review and maintenance of the risk matrix and it reviews, in detail, the risk matrix each time it Investment Performance meets, bearing in mind any changes to the Company, its The Committee gained an overall understanding of the environment or service providers since the last review.
Any performance of the investment portfolio both in capital and significant changes to the risk matrix are discussed with the revenue terms through ongoing discussions and analysis whole Board.
with the Companys Portfolio Manager and also with comparison to suitable key performance indicators see Viability Statement pages 20 and 21.
The Board is required to make a longer-term viability statement in relation to the continuing operations of the Accounting Policies During the year the Committee ensured that the accounting Company.
The Committee reviewed papers produced in policies were applied consistently throughout the year.
In support of the statement made by the Board which assesses light of there being no unusual transactions during the year the viability of the Company over a period of five years.
The or other possible reasons, the Committee agreed that there Company is a long-term investor and the Committee was no reason to change the policies.
believes that is appropriate to recommend to the Board that the Companys viability should be assessed over a five-year Going Concern period, also taking account of the Companys current Having reviewed the Companys financial position and position and the potential impact of the Companys principal liabilities, the Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate for risks and uncertainties as shown in the Strategic Report.
the Board to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
External Auditors Internal controls and risk management Meetings: As set out on page 22 the Board is responsible for the risk This year the nature and scope of the audit together with assessment and review of internal controls of the Company,  LLPs audit plan were considered undertaken in the context of the overall investment by the Committee on 8 November 2017.
I, as Chairman of the objective.
Committee, had a meeting with them specifically to discuss the audit and any issues that arose of which there were The review covers the key business, operational, compliance none of any significance.
The Committee then met and financial risks facing the Company.
In arriving at its  LLP on 24 May 2018 to formally judgement of what risks the Company faces, the Board has review the outcome of the audit and to discuss the limited Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 41 249336 WWH pp40-pp51.
qxp 03 07 2018 12:27 Page 42 Governance Audit Committee Report issues that arose.
The Committee also discussed the Auditors Reappointment presentation of the Annual Report with the Auditors and  LLP have indicated their sought their perspective.
willingness to continue to act as Auditors to the Company for the forthcoming year and a resolution for their Independence and Effectiveness: re-appointment will be proposed at the Annual General In order to fulfil the Committees responsibility regarding the Meeting.
independence of the Auditors, the Committee reviewed: The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of the the senior audit personnel in the audit plan for the year, audit process, including agreeing the Auditors assessment the Auditors arrangements concerning any conflicts of of materiality and monitors the Auditors independence and interest, objectivity.
It conducted a review of the performance of the Auditors during the year and concluded that performancethe extent of any non-audit services, and was satisfactory and there were no grounds for change.
the statement by the Auditors that they remain independent within the meaning of the regulations and Audit Committee confirmation their professional standards.
The Audit Committee confirms that it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal financial Non-Audit Services control and risk management during the year, as set out The Company operates on the basis whereby the provision of above and that: all non-audit services by the Auditors has to be preapproved by the Audit Committee.
Such services are only a An ongoing procedure for identifying, evaluating and permissible where no conflicts of interest arise, the service managing significant risks faced by the Company was in is not expressly prohibited by audit legislation, where the place for the year under review and up to 15 June 2018. independence of the Auditors is not likely to be impinged by This procedure is regularly reviewed by the Board: and undertaking the work and the quality and the objectivity of b It is responsible on behalf of the Board for the both the non-audit work and audit work will not be Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing compromised.
its effectiveness and that it is designed to manage the Non-audit fees of 3,500 were payable to the Auditors during risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
This can the year for agreed upon procedures in relation to their only provide reasonable not absolute assurance against review of the Companys performance fee payments.
The Audit Committee has considered the extent and nature of non-audit work performed by the Auditors and is satisfied that this did not impinge on their independence and is a cost Humphrey van der Klugt, FCA effective way for the Company to operate.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Tendering 15 June 2018  LLP have been the Auditors since July 2014, which was the last occasion an audit tender was held.
Formal Audit tender guidelines have been adopted to govern the Audit tender process.
As a public company listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Company is subject to the mandatory Auditor rotation requirements of the European Union.
The Company will put the external audit out to tender at least every 10 years and change Auditors at least every 20 years.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 42 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018
