Performance, risk and sustainability Risk management Effective risk management underpins the Risk appetite successful delivery of our strategy.
Integrity, Our risk appetite is defined by our strategic rigour and accountability are central to our objectives.
We invest capital in businesses that values and culture at 3i and are embedded will deliver capital returns and portfolio and fund management cash income to cover our costs, in our approach to risk management.
and increase returns to our investors.
Investment risk The following sections explain how we Understanding our risk The substantial majority of the Groups capital control and manage the risks in our business.
appetiteand culture is invested in Private Equity.
Before the Group They outline the key risks, our assessment As both an investor and asset manager, commits to an investment, we assess the Private of their potential impact on our business in 3i is in the business of taking risk in order Equity opportunity using the following criteria: the context of the current environment and to seek to achieve its targeted returns for how we seek to mitigate them.
return objective: individually assessed and fund investors and shareholders.
The Board subject to a minimum target of 2x money approves the strategic objectives that Approach to risk governance multiple over four to five years: determine the level and types of risk that 3i The Board is responsible for risk assessment, is prepared to accept.
The Board reviews geographic focus: core markets of northern the risk management process and for 3is strategic objectives and risk appetite at Europe and North America: the protection of the Groups reputation least annually.
The Groups risk management sector expertise: focus on Business and and brand integrity.
It considers the most framework is designed to support the Technology Services, Consumer and Industrial: significant risks facing the Group and uses delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
and quantitative analyses, such as the vintage 3is risk appetite policy, which is consistent control which considers the portfolio vintage: invest up to 750 million per annum in with previous years, is built on rigorous and concentration by geography and sector, four to seven new investments in companies comprehensive investment procedures and liquidity reporting, where appropriate.
with an enterprise value range of 100 million and conservative capital management.
Non-executive oversight is also exercised through the Audit and Compliance Investments made by 3iN need to be consistent Culture Committee which focuses on upholding with 3iNs overall return target of 8% to 10% Integrity, rigour and accountability are standards of integrity, financial reporting, over the medium term and generate a mix of central to our values and culture and risk management, going concern and capital and income returns.
Other Infrastructure are embedded in our approach to risk internal control.
The Audit and Compliance investments made by the Group should be management.
Our Investment Committee, Committees activities are discussed further capable of delivering capital growth and fund which has oversight of the investment on pages 66 to 69. management fees which together generate pipeline development and approves new mid-teens returns.
The Board has delegated the responsibility investments, significant portfolio changes for risk oversight to the Chief Executive.
and divestments, is integral to ensuring a He is assisted by the Group Risk Committee Capital management consistent approach across the business.
GRC in managing this responsibility, and It ensures compliance with 3is financial 3i adopts a conservative approach to managing guided by the Boards appetite for risk and and strategic requirements, cultural values its capital resources as follows: any specific limits set.
The GRC maintains and appropriate investment behaviours.
there is no appetite for structural gearing the Group risk review, which summarises the Members of the Executive Committee at the Group level, but short-term tactical Groups principal risks, associated mitigating have responsibility for their own business gearing will be used: actions and key risk indicators, and identifies or functional areas and the Group expects any changes to the Groups risk profile.
individual behaviours to meet its high the Group does not hedge its currency The risk review is updated quarterly, with exposure but it does match currency standards of conduct.
All employees share the last review in May 2018, and the Chief the responsibility for upholding 3is strong realisations with investments where possible Executive provides quarterly updates to each and takes out short-term hedges occasionally control culture and supporting effective risk Audit and Compliance Committee meeting.
Senior managers, typically to hedge investments and realisations Investment Committee ensures a consistent between signing and completion: and those who report to Executive Committee approach to investment processes across the members, are required to confirm their we have limited appetite for the dilution business as described on page 46. individual and business area compliance of capital returns as a result of operating annually.
In addition, all staff are assessed and interest expenses.
Both Private Equity In addition to the above, a number of other on how they have demonstrated 3is values and Infrastructure generate cash income to Board and Executive committees contribute as part of their annual appraisal.
Finally, our mitigate this risk.
to the Groups overall risk governance Remuneration Committee is responsible for structure, as set out opposite.
3i Groups Pillar 3 document ensuring the Groups remuneration culture can be found at www.
com is weighted towards variable compensation where reward is strictly dependant on performance.
44 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Performance, risk and sustainability Committees of the Board Risk governance structure Committees of the Chief Executive Independent Committees Board Approves the Groups risk appetite and strategy Responsible for ensuring an effective risk management and oversight process across the Group Audit and Compliance Committee Remuneration Committee Assisted by four Board Committees with specific responsibility for key risk Responsible for managing financial Responsible for ensuring a remuneration management areas reporting risk and internal control and culture which is weighted towards Delegates management of the Group the relationship with the external Auditor variable reward and strictly dependent to the Chief Executive on performance Reviews and challenges risk management reports from Group Finance, Tax, Approves variable compensation Internal Audit and Compliance schemes for our investment professionals that are in line with market practice and Chief Executive updates the Committee enable the Group to attract and retain at each meeting on the output of the the best talent latest GRC meeting By excluding Executive Directors from carried interest or performance fee profit schemes, the Committee ensures Valuations Committee that their remuneration is more directly aligned with shareholder returns Specific and primary responsibility for the valuation policy and valuation of the Groups investment portfolio Provides oversight and challenge of Nominations Committee underlying assumptions on the valuation Responsible for ensuring that the Board of the unquoted investment portfolio has the necessary, skills, experience 83% of net assets at 31 March 2018 and knowledge to enable the Group Direct engagement with the external to deliver its strategic objectives Auditor, including their specialist valuations team Chief Executive Delegated responsibility for management of the Group Delegated responsibility for investment decisions Delegated responsibility for Risk Management Executive Committee Investment Committee Group Risk Committee Monitors divisional performance Principal committee for managing the Assists the Chief Executive with the Groups investment portfolio, its most oversight of risk management across Facilitates information sharing material risk, and meets as often the Group between divisions as required Implements the Groups risk appetite Meets monthly Chaired by the Chief Executive policy and monitors performance Strict oversight of each step of the Maintains the Group risk review which Conflicts Committee investment lifecycle details its risk exposure and appropriate mitigations and controls Approves all investment, divestment Deals with potential conflicts as required and material portfolio decisions Two members of the GRC, the Group Finance Director and General Counsel, Monitors investments against original form the Risk Management Function investment case Treasury Transactions Committee as required under AIFMD Ensures investments are in line with the Groups investment policy and Considers specific treasury transactions risk appetite as required 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 45 Performance, risk and sustainability Risk management continued The risk framework is augmented by a Role of Group Risk Committee Role of Investment Committee separate Risk Management Function in risk management in risk management which has specific responsibilities under The quarterly Group risk review process Our Investment Committee is fundamental the FCAs Investment Funds Sourcebook.
includes the monitoring of key strategic and to the management of investment risk.
It meets ahead of the GRC meetings to financial metrics such as KPIs considered The Investment Committee is involved in and consider the key risks impacting the Group, to be indicators of potential changes in the approves every step of the investment and and any changes in the relevant period Groups risk profile.
The GRC uses these to realisation process.
It also considers the identify its principal risks.
It then evaluates separate risk reports for each Alternative The investment case presented at the outset the impact and likelihood of each risk, with Investment Fund AIF managed by the of our investment consideration process reference to associated measures and key Group, including areas such as portfolio includes the expected benefit of operational performance indicators.
The adequacy of composition, portfolio valuation, operational improvements, growth initiatives and M&A the mitigation plans is then assessed and, if updates and team changes, which are then activity that will be driven by our investment necessary, additional actions are agreed and considered by the GRC.
professionals together with the portfolio then reviewed at the subsequent meeting.
It will also In practice, the Group operates a three lines A number of focus topics are also agreed include a view on the likely exit strategy of defence framework for managing and in advance of each meeting.
GRC covered the following: The execution of this investment case is The first line of defence against an update on the Groups Brexit planning closely monitored: outcomes outside our risk appetite are process, including the incorporation of our two divisions and their respective our monthly portfolio monitoring reviews an approved Alternative Investment Fund Managing Partners.
current performance against budget Manager AIFM in Luxembourg: and prior year and a set of traffic light Line management is supported by a semi-annual update on Environmental, indicators and bespoke, forward looking oversight and control functions such Social, business integrity and corporate KPIs: and as finance, human resources and legal Governance ESG issues and which constitute the second line of both Private Equity and Infrastructure themes, especially with respect to its defence.
The compliance function is hold semi-annual reviews that focus portfolio companies: also in the second line of defence: its on the longer-term performance and duties include reviewing the effective a review of the Groups stress tests to plan for the investment compared to support its Internal Capital Adequacy operation of our processes in meeting the original investment case, together regulatory requirements.
Assessment Process ICAAP and with any strategic developments and Viability statement: Internal audit provides independent market outlook.
assurance over the operation of a review of the Groups IT framework The monthly portfolio monitoring reviews controls and is the third line of defence.
including cyber security and business and the semi-annual reviews are attended The internal audit programme includes the resilience: and by the Investment Committee and the senior review of risk management processes and the proposed risk disclosures in the 2018 members of the investment teams.
recommendations to improve the internal Annual report and accounts.
Finally, we recognise the need to plan control environment.
There were no significant changes to the and execute a successful exit at the GRCs approach to risk governance or its optimum time for the portfolio companys operation in FY2018 but we continued to development, taking consideration of market refine our framework for risk management conditions.
This risk is closely linked to the where appropriate.
Exit plans are refreshed where appropriate in the semiannual portfolio reviews and the divestment process is clearly defined and overseen by the Investment Committee.
Individual portfolio company underperformance could have adverse reputational consequences for the Group, even though the value impact may not be material.
We review our internal processes and investment decisions in light of actual outcomes on an ongoing basis.
Further details on 3is approach as a responsible investor are available at www.
com 46 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018
