Financial review, risk and sustainability Risk report The Board manages risks through updates from the Investment Adviser Assessment and management and other service providers and through representation on portfolio ofrisk is not just a periodic companies boards by investment exercise, it runs through advisory team members.
In addition to the Audit and Risk everything we do as a Board.
Committee, a number of other committees contribute to the Companys overall risk governance structure including the Investment Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
Wendy Dorman Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Further detail on these committees 10 May 2018 can be found in the Governance section of this report on page 54.
The Board exercises oversight of Approach to risk Risk review process therisk framework, methodology governance The Companys risk review process and process through the Audit and includes the monitoring of key The Board is ultimately responsible Risk Committee.
The risk framework strategic and financial metrics for the risk management of the is designed to provide a structured considered to be indicators of Company.
It seeks to achieve andconsistent process for identifying, potential changes in its risk profile.
anappropriate balance between assessing and responding to risks.
The review includes, but is not mitigating risk and generating The Committee ensures that there limited to, the following: attractive risk-adjusted returns isa consistent approach to risk across for shareholders.
Integrity regular updates on the operational the Companys strategy, business andresponsibility are embedded and financial performance of objectives, policies and procedures.
in the Companys approach portfolio companies: The Company is also reliant on toriskmanagement.
infrastructure and broader market therisk management framework overviews: ofthe Investment Adviser and other specific reviews in the year on keyservice providers, as well as cyber and terrorism related risk: onthe risk management operations ofeach portfolio company.
experience of investment processes: 45 Financial review, risk and sustainability Risk report continued key macro-economic indicators The Audit and Risk Committee uses The Company is an investment and their impact on the the above to identify a number of company, therefore the stressed performance and valuation key risks.
It then evaluates the impact scenarios reflect cash flow from of portfolio companies: and likelihood of each key risk, with investments being reduced, such reference to the Companys strategy that debt covenants are breached liquidity management: and business model.
The adequacy and liabilities cannot be met.
The compliance with regulatory of the mitigation plans and controls Investment Adviser models the obligations: are then assessed and, if necessary, impact of these scenarios on the analysis of the impact of additional actions are agreed and Company and reports the results to international initiatives such as then reviewed at the subsequent the Board.
The modelling relates to the OECDs Action Plan on Base meeting.
the Companys investment portfolio, Erosion and Profit Shifting and the as the Company is an investment The Committee maintains a risk Common Reporting Standard, the company and this is therefore most matrix, onto which the key risks are EU Alternative Investment Fund relevant to an assessment of viability.
mapped by impact and likelihood.
Managers Directive, General Data The resulting assessment of viability The principal risks are identified Protection Regulation GDPR, is included in this Risk report.
on the risk matrix as those with the Packaged Retail and Insurancehighest combination of impact and based Investment Products Risk appetite likelihood scores.
The Company PRIIPs Regulation, Markets in The Committee has reviewed the considers these principal risks in Financial Instruments Directive riskmatrix, and set out the Companys greater detail with regard to the MIFID II, the US Foreign Account appetite for each of the key risks.
assessment of the Companys Tax Compliance Act: and As an investment company, the viability.
A number of scenarios review of the Companys risk log.
Company seeks to take investment have been developed to reflect risk.
The appetite for investment risk likely outcomes should the principal is described in the Investment policy risks be experienced, as well as and on page 6, with a risk return consideration of stressed scenarios graph which shows the investment that could result in the Company focus of the Company.
The Company ceasing to be viable.
seeks to limit or manage exposure toother risks to acceptable levels.
Risk framework Strategic considerations New or emerging risks Risk assessment Strategy and business model Risk appetite Control and mitigation Risk management Mitigation Internal controls Risk limits Monitoring and measurement Controls assessment Stress testing Assurance work Sensitivity headroom analysis Risk related reporting Internal External Annual report Monthly management accounts Risk appetite Internal and external audit reports Viability statement Service provider control reports Internal controls Risk logs Going concern Compliance reports Statutory accounting disclosures 46 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Financial review, risk and sustainability Inflation, particularly in the UK, The recovery and stabilisation of Review of significant was running ahead of long-term the oil price during the year has key risks targets during the year.
This has led to increasing contract rates and The disclosures on pages 47 and been beneficial for the assets with utilisation for ESVAGTs tonnage.
48 are not an exhaustive list of risks inflation-linked revenues, such as The introduction of stricter standards and uncertainties faced by the WIG and Infinis, although partially for sulphur content in fuel oil used by Company, but rather a summary of offset by increases in costs.
ships from 2020 is impacting parts significant key risks which are under Interest rates have risen slightly of the oil storage sector.
It has led active review by the Board.
These inthe year but remained low.
This to a deterioration in fuel oil trading significant key risks have the potential hadpositive implications for some margins, and reduced traders to affect materially the achievement oftheportfolio assets and allowed appetite to store this product.
This of the Companys strategic for the favourable refinancing of has caused a sudden drop in market objectives and impact its financial debtinESVAGT and Oystercatcher, wide fuel oil storage rates and has performance.
This disclosure shows and the operational wind portfolio also caused some storage capacity developments in these significant in Valorem.
that was being used for fuel oil, key risks for the year.
The risks that and that in some instances can also have been identified as principal risks There was significant currency accommodate gasoil, to become are described in more detail in the volatility in the year, with sterling available in the market.
At the same Principal risks and mitigations table depreciating by 2.6% against the time many product markets are in on pages 50 and 51. euro in response to continuing backwardation.
Oystercatcher has uncertainty concerning the UK The Companys risk profile and seen some softening of demand for leaving the EU.
The Companys appetite remains broadly stable.
storage of certain product types objective is to hedge substantially as a result of these market changes.
External risks market its direct euro and Danish krone and competition exposures and indirect Singapore External risks regulatory dollar and Norwegian krone The markets in which the Company and tax exposures.
The revaluation of the seeks to invest, and in particular the We have continued to monitor hedging programme is impacted European economic infrastructure the development of tax changes by movements in forward exchange market, are competitive, with strong recommended by the OECDs Base rates which are not necessarily demand for new investments.
Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS matched exactly by an equivalent This has supported value gains project.
Of the 15 BEPS Actions change in the spot exchange rate for existing assets in the portfolio comprising the BEPS project, the at which the assets are translated.
In this challenging two which have been identified as environment, the Investment Adviser The exposure to the Indian rupee most relevant to the Company and continues to leverage its network remains unhedged.
In relation to this its investments are Action 4 Limit and skills to make investments that exposure, the Boards assessment base erosion via interest deductions, can continue to deliver attractive riskremains that the cost of hedging and Action 6 Prevent treaty abuse.
adjusted returns to the Companys the exposure would outweigh In relation to BEPS Action 4, shareholders.
the potential benefits, primarily the expected impact of interest due to the significant interest rate The terms on which the UK will leave deductibility rules in the UK and differential between sterling and the EU have progressed and are now some European countries has rupee.
looking likely to conclude in 2020, been reflected in the valuation but the final details remain uncertain ofthe Companys investments as The Board monitors the effectiveness and could create a generally less at31 March 2018.
A number of other of the Companys hedging policy favourable financial environment for European jurisdictions have tax on a regular basis.
During the year, the Company and its investments.
regimes which already limit interest the foreign exchange gains were The majority of the Companys deductions and further changes offset by movements in the foreign investments are in domestic are not therefore expected to have exchange hedging derivatives.
businesses with limited cross-border amaterial impact.
The revenues of Infinis are trading.
This mitigates the risk to underpinned by the inflationtheCompany of the UK leaving the linked UK Renewables Obligation EU without a trade deal.
Certificate ROC regime until 2027, while the valuation of the business is also dictated by the evolution of long-term power prices and to fluctuations in the power price.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 47 Financial review, risk and sustainability Risk report continued In June 2017, representatives from The Company has sufficient cash Investment risks 68 countries and jurisdictions signed available to complete the committed The Company made six investments a Multilateral Instrument which investment in Attero, and has and commitments during the year, in provides a mechanism for amending good liquidity available for future Attero, Alkane Energy through Infinis, tax treaties for several of the investment through the RCF which and follow-ons in Oystercatcher, BEPS recommendations including has been refinanced since the yearWIG, Infinis and ESVAGT.
In line those concerning BEPS Action 6, end.
The facility has a 200 million withthe Companys investment prevention of treaty abuse.
Following accordion feature which the focus, described on page 6, these domestic ratification by more than Company could seek to exercise new investments have characteristics five countries or jurisdictions, this if required.
which may increase volatility will come into effect from 1 January inreturns from time to time, for The projects portfolio is based 2019.
In order to mitigate the risk example from exposure to market onlong-term contracts with public of tax leakage for the Company, power prices or demand risk.
There is a the Board intend to move the tax risk, particularly in the UK, that the Ongoing access to debt markets is domicile and management of the public sector may wish to terminate important to assets in the portfolio, Company to the UK with effect from these contracts early.
In most cases, particularly as existing debt matures.
We are pursuing the contracts have robust provisions Changes in the terms and availability aproject plan to achieve this, which which set out the basis on which of debt finance, including from includes an application to HMRC for investors will be compensated in underlying performance of portfolio UK approved investment trust status.
the event of early termination at assets, could impact valuations.
The The Companys investment in Infinis the request of the public sector.
refinancing undertaken for ESVAGT, is exposed to regulatory risk around Where such provisions do not Oystercatcher and the operational embedded benefits.
In June 2017, exist, termination and associated portfolio in Valorem mitigates against Ofgem confirmed its intention to cut compensation is subject to mutual this risk by extending the maturity the value of one of those benefits, agreement.
The Companys projects of debt.
known as Triads, which is reflected portfolio is widely diversified by The performance of the investments in the valuation of Infinis.
Ofgem counterparty and legal jurisdiction, in the India Fund remains weak.
will publish the conclusions of its and represents 12% of the total The remaining portfolio, which Significant Code Review by early portfolio including investment now represents less than 2% of 2019, with implementation due to commitments, of which 8% is UK the Companys portfolio, isbeing come into effect from the 2020 21 PFIs.
Overall, we consider the managed for realisation.
This is not expected to risk of a material loss arising from have amaterial impact on the value widespread early termination of the Operational of Infinis.
The key areas of operational risk At the start of the financial year, Strategic risks include the loss of key personnel Elenia represented 22% of portfolio atthe Investment Adviser, and The Company manages its balance value including investment whether the Investment Advisers sheet and liquidity position actively, commitments.
This increased to team can continue to support the seeking to maintain adequate 25% at the half year.
Together with delivery of the Companys objectives.
liquidity to pursue new investment AWG, the two largest investments TheBoard monitors the performance opportunities, while not diluting in the portfolio represented 40% of the Investment Adviser through shareholder returns by holding of portfolio value at the half year.
the Management Engagement surplus cash balances.
Following Following the sale of Elenia and Committee.
It also monitors thereceipt of proceeds from AWG, the portfolio is more evenly the performance of key service the saleof Elenia and AWG, the balanced across investments, providers, receiving reports of any Company returned 425 million to withnoinvestments above 20% significant control breaches.
The shareholders as a special dividend ofportfolio value.
Board reviewed its own reporting on on29 March 2018. cyber risk during the year, assessed its service providers and considered cyber risk and terrorism risk within portfolio companies.
48 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Financial review, risk and sustainability Viability statement The Directors consider the longThe assessment was conducted The Directors consider that a threeterm prospects of the Company to over several months, during which year period to March 2021 is an be favourable.
The Company has the scenarios to be analysed appropriate period to review for a diverse portfolio of infrastructure were evaluated by the Board, the assessing the Companys viability.
investments, producing good and assumptions set, and the analysis This reflects greater predictability reasonably predictable levels of produced and reviewed.
The of the Companys cash flows over income which cover the dividend analysis included the impact of that time period, the term of and costs.
The Investment changes in taxation under the the Companys Revolving Credit Adviser has a strong track record OECDs BEPS initiative, a Brexit Facility, and increased uncertainty of investing selectively in good outcome that is unfavourable surrounding economic, political and businesses and projects, and to the Company, consideration regulatory changes over the longer driving value through an engaged of dramatic political events and term.
widespread economic turmoil, Based on this assessment, the The Directors consider that this and the loss of a large investment.
Directors have a reasonable portfolio can continue tomeet the The implications of changes in the expectation that the Company will Companys objectives.
inflation, interest rate and foreign be able to continue in operation exchange environment were The Directors have assessed the and meet its liabilities as they fall also considered, separately and viability of the Company over a due over the three-year period to in combination.
The Directors have taken account The results of this stress testing of the current position of the showed that the Company would Company, and the principal risks it be able to withstand the impact of faces which are documented in this these scenarios occurring over the Risk report.
The Directors also considered scenarios that The Directors have considered the would represent a serious threat potential impact on the Company to its liquidity and viability in the of a number of scenarios in addition time period.
These scenarios to the Companys business plan were considered to be remote, and recent forecasts, which quantify such as a fall in equity value of the the financial impact of the principal portfolio of materially more than risks occurring.
These scenarios 50% whilst being fully drawn on the represent severe but remote revolving credit facility including circumstances that the Company theaccordion, or an equivalent fall could experience, including a in income.
significant impairment in the value of the portfolio and a reduction in the cash flows available from portfolio companies from a variety of causes.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 49 Financial review, risk and sustainability Risk report continued Principal risks and mitigations Movement in risk status Principal risks Risk description Risk mitigation in FY2018 External Changes to the following areas may Company has retained legal Legal, tax, impact upon the operation of the advisers and the Investment compliance Company: Adviser has in-house lawyers and accounting Tax advice taken on transactions Legal changes to listing rules and at other times as necessary Tax changes to the rules which Investment Adviser has an affect the Jersey nil rated regime in-house Compliance team to Compliance increased regulation, provide advice on regulatory eg AIFMD, FATCA issues Accounting rules pertaining to Accounting advice and updates disclosure consolidation provided by external firms if Regulatory changes to the required regulatory regime of the Company, the Investment Adviser and portfolio companies can impact the operating model and or profitability Changes to the tax regime The impact on the portfolio or OECD BEPS applicable to the Company, investment strategy of changes initiative subsidiaries or portfolio companies to applicable standards and that increase tax leakage and or regulation is closely monitored affect the Companys relative The Board intends to move the tax attractiveness as an investment domicile and management of the vehicle due to the OECD BEPS Company to the UK on 1 October initiative or associated UK and 2018 EU initiatives Market economic Macro-economic or market volatility Advice of Investment Adviser on flows through to pricing, valuations deal-making, asset management and portfolio performance and hedging solutions to market volatility Fiscal tightening impacts market environment Periodic legal and regulatory updates on the Companys Risk of sovereign default lowers markets and in-depth market market sentiment and increases and sector research from volatility other advisers Misjudgement of inflation and or interest rate outlook Change to the political environment that impacts market sentiment, infrastructure projects or portfolio companies Increased competition for the Continual review of market data Competition acquisition of assets in the and review of Company return Companys strategic focus areas target compared to market returns Deal processes more competitive Origination experience of and prices increase Investment Adviser New entrants compete with a lower Strong track record and strength cost of capital of 3i Infrastructure brand 50 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Financial review, risk and sustainability Movement in risk status Principal risks Risk description Risk mitigation in FY2018 Strategic Failure to ensure adequate spread Investment process explicitly Unbalanced of assets invested to minimise addresses questions of portfolio concentration risks eg by geographical sector balance geography, sector, demand driver, in the portfolio regulator and fulfil investment Portfolio concentration measures policy are reviewed periodically by Difficulty in maintaining the Board geographical diversity, or sale The Investment Adviser of large assets, may lead to undertakes a concentration review unbalanced portfolio for each new investment Misjudgement of risk when entering new sectors, industries orgeographies Investment Failure to achieve new investment Efficient balance sheet maintained Inappropriate impacts shareholder perception, and monitored regularly by rate of returns and growth prospects the Board investment Excess vintage risk magnifies the Portfolio concentration measures impact of poor performance from are reviewed periodically by a vintage of investments the Board Poor management of investment The Investment Adviser pipeline undertakes a concentration review for each new investment Operational Members of the deal team at Benchmarked compensation Loss of senior Investment Adviser leave and dealpackages and deferred Investment doing and portfolio management remuneration Adviser staff capability in the short to medium Notice periods within employment term is restricted contracts Size of the senior team and strength of the 3i brand Unauthorised access of information Regular review of the Company Cyber and operating systems and key service providers Regulatory and legal risks from Regular review and update of failure to comply with cyber related cyber due diligence for potential laws and regulations, including investments data protection Review of portfolio companies for cyber risk management and incident readiness Risk exposure has increased No significant change in risk exposure Risk exposure has decreased 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 51
