888. com Risk Management Strategy AND MANAGING OUR RISKS The Board acknowledges that there is no return without risk.
However, key risks must be identified, evaluated and where possible quantified in order for the Board to rationally determine how to harness risk to generate optimal return.
The Board acts in accordance with a bad news and near miss incidents, it is responsible for 888s risk Risk Management Policy, which aims to with a willingness to constantly learn and management systems and for explicitly identify and evaluate key risks improve.
The Board has also adopted reviewing their effectiveness: underlying the Groups core business a Reporting and Escalation Procedure there is an on-going process for strategy and standardise the approach to ensure timely reporting of internal identifying, evaluating and managing to risk prioritisation and management reportable events including bugs, technical the principal risks faced by 888: across 888s operations.
This in turn failures, information security malfunctions means that effective controls can be put and marketing and other operational the systems have been in place during in place to ensure 888 is able to manage incidents which may affect customers.
2018 and up to the date of approval of its operations effectively now and into the annual report and accounts: and The Board considers that 888 complies the future.
888s risk register is updated with the requirements of the Financial they are regularly reviewed periodically and regular discussions are Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk by the Board.
held at Board and management level of Management, Internal Control and the role of risk in 888s business.
Please see page 26 for further details Related Financial and Business Reporting of the review conducted in 2018.
888s culture emphasises the need for dated September 2014, and specifically employees to take responsibility for confirms that: managing the risks in their own areas and to transparently and timely report 24 24 888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 Strategic Report Category of risk Tolerance Risk parameters Risk appetite Medium During development and implementation of Strategic Addressing risk is a high priority new propositions and assessing new opportunities for the Board and effective including potential transactions, we are prepared risk management is an integral to accept medium risks that support our pursuit part of the way we conduct of growth.
our business on a daily basis.
The Board factors into the risk Low to When operating within our business, we have a Operational assessment impact, likelihood medium low to medium tolerance for risk.
We will take a and appetite considerations.
Risk cautious approach to risk within our operations, but is managed across the Group consider that certain risks will be taken in order to in the context of overall risk achieve our strategic objectives and maintain our appetite and during 2018 the competitive position.
Board considered risk appetite to ensure adequate resources are Low We consider that robust financial controls are Financial allocated to identified risks.
The necessary to manage our business effectively.
All of Board reviewed and approved the our operating processes are based around policies following risk appetite statement: and procedures that minimise the risk of a loss of financial control.
Extremely low We have an extremely low to zero tolerance when Compliance complying with laws and regulations that relate to bribery, corruption and anti-money laundering.
We have controls in place that are designed to mitigate these risks, and detailed and tested procedures in place for dealing with these types of scenarios when they arise.
We are particularly sensitive to compliance risks in our key regulated markets including the UK.
888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 25 25 Corporate.
888. com Risk Management Strategy Continued 888 faces the following significant risks: Regulatory risk The risk What happened in 2018 The UKGC took an increasingly strict approach towards The regulatory framework of online gaming is dynamic compliance, tightening requirements, adopting more stringent and complex.
Change in the regulatory regime in a specific policies and regulations, and increasing the level of oversight jurisdiction can have a material adverse effect on business over licensees.
The primary areas of focus for the UKGC were volume and financial performance in that jurisdiction.
In responsible gambling and prevention of underage gambling, addition, a number of jurisdictions have regulated online consumer protection, and anti-money laundering.
During 2018, gaming, and in several of those jurisdictions 888 either holds the UKGC issued fines to a number of licensed operators, for a licence or applied to obtain one.
However, in some cases, various violations and shortcomings pertaining to regulatory lack of clarity in the regulations, or conflicting legislative and compliance, signalling a tougher stance on compliance and regulatory developments, mean that 888 may risk failing enforcement.
The Group continued to work closely with the to obtain an appropriate licence, having existing licences UKGC on compliance matters, and also to update its policies and adversely affected, or being subject to other regulatory procedures and to strengthen internal reporting lines to ensure sanctions, including internet service provider blocking, compliance within the business, investing significant resources payments blocking, black-listing and fines.
Furthermore, in regulatory compliance measures.
In Germany, the Company legal and other action may be taken by incumbent gaming is subject to prohibition orders issued by various German states, providers in jurisdictions which are seeking to regulate online some of which have been upheld by German courts and others gaming, in an attempt to frustrate the grant of online gaming which are in the process of judicial review.
While the Company licences to 888.
Finally, changes to either the regulatory continues to challenge the validity of these orders where possible and is seeking relief on this matter from the German framework or enforcement policy relating to online gaming Constitutional Court, it has been consulting closely with its in certain markets may effectively force the Group out of German advisers as to the appropriate operational measures certain markets where it currently operates or compel it to to be taken by the Group in light of the orders issued.
The change its business practices or technology in a way that Group continues to be conscious of the potential for increased would materially impact results.
enforcement in Germany and of the impact that the current German legal landscape may have on the willingness of payment Relevance to strategy processors to process payments from German players.
In light of Compliance with regulatory requirements and the these developments, the Group continues to assess its operations maintenance of regulatory relationships in multiple in Germany, with a view to averting legal, reputational and jurisdictions is key to maintaining 888s online gaming operational risks.
In the Netherlands, where a law was approved licences which are critical to the operation and growth of its in February 2019 to liberalize the market, the local regulator has been taking a more aggressive approach towards enforcement of online gaming business.
"In addition, 888 may be exposed to existing laws against operators whose operations are conducted claims in jurisdictions which do not regulate online gaming, in violation of the ""prioritization criteria"" for enforcement issued seeking to block access to 888s offering to players located by the authorities and updated from time to time."
A robust understanding of the legal and operators received significant fines due to the conduct of regulatory position in key locations worldwide is crucial to operations in a manner violating these criteria.
Operators fined mitigating this risk.
may also be barred from participating in the liberalized market or have their eligibility for licensing delayed.
The Group has been How the risk is managed studying these developments closely.
In January 2019 the US 888 manages its regulatory risk by routinely consulting Department of Justice issued a legal opinion on the scope of the federal Wire Act, overturning a previous opinion from 2011, and with legal advisers in various jurisdictions where its services finding that the Act applies to all forms of gambling not only are marketed or which generate significant revenue for sports betting, as was concluded in the previous opinion.
Furthermore, 888 obtains frequent and routine reversal, and a subsequent change of enforcement policy by the updates regarding changes in the law that may be applicable federal authorities, could have far-reaching impacts on the US to its operations, working with local counsel to assess the gambling industry, particularly with respect to online operations.
impact of any changes on its operations.
888 constantly The Department of Justice has announced it will not be pursuing adapts and moderates its services to comply with legal enforcement action under the new interpretation for a 90-day and regulatory requirements.
888 has also implemented period starting on January 15, 2019.
In tandem, various state organizational changes in order to strengthen regulatory regulators have announced their position on the ramifications of compliance oversight, as well as to improve co-operation the new opinion or are in the process of studying its implications.
between the different departments and streamline processes The Group is taking advice on this matter from its legal advisors of settling any conflicts between them, ensuring that in the US, to ensure that its operations are consistent with 888s regulatory requirements and duty to uphold the updated regulatory requirements and cannot be seen as violating licensing objectives always take priority over commercial federal law.
The issuance of the updated memo could have interests.
"Finally, 888 blocks players from certain ""blocked far-reaching consequences in connection with the ability or jurisdictions"" using multiple technological methods willingness of various crucial service providers e. g. banks and as appropriate."
payment processors to work with the gambling industry, and the Group anticipates that the full impact of the new opinion on its operations and on the industry will become more apparent in the near future.
26 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Increase Decrease Stable Brexit-related risks The risk How the risk is managed The status of Gibraltar as a result of Brexit remains unclear.
888 is not able to control political changes of this nature, If 888 were to remain registered, licensed and operating however it has obtained a gaming licence in Malta and in Gibraltar in these circumstances, its ability to rely on EU established a server farm in Ireland so that it can continue to freedom of services establishment principles in supplying serve European markets with no disruption to its business.
its services within the EU will be limited: furthermore, it may 888 also diversifies its geographical customer base so as to become ineligible to continue to hold regulatory licenses in mitigate dependency on the UK market.
Brexit may also adversely impact What happened in 201819 economic and market conditions in the United Kingdom, and give rise to a slowdown of UK business for the Company.
The UK formally notified the EU in March 2017 of its intention to withdraw from the EU, which commenced a negotiation Relevance to strategy period which is expected to conclude in March 2019 unless The ability to rely on EU principles underpins 888s all parties to the negotiations agree otherwise with the regulatory strategy regarding major EU markets.
United Kingdom ceasing to be a member of the EU at the end of March 2019.
On 15 January 2019, the British House of Commons rejected Prime Minister Theresa Mays Brexit deal with the EU.
Presently, the manner of Britains exit from the EU on March 29, 2019, remains unclear.
Information Technology and Cyber risks In the event of loss of functionality of 888s critical services, The risk the business can be fully recovered through the resources IT systems may be impacted by unauthorised access, cyberavailable at the disaster recovery site.
In order to minimise attacks, DDoS Distributed Denial of Service attacks, theft or dependence on telecommunication service providers, 888 misuse of data by internal or external parties, or disrupted by invests in network infrastructure redundancies whilst regularly increases in usage, human error, natural hazards or disasters reviewing its service providers.
888 has two Internet service or other events.
Cyber-attack and data theft incidents may providers in Gibraltar in order to minimise reliance on one expose 888 to ransom demands and costs of repairing provider.
As a part of its monitoring system, 888 deploys physical and reputational damage.
Failure of IT systems, set user experience tests which measure performance infrastructure or telecommunications third-party infrastructure from different locations around the world.
Network-related may cause significant cost and disruption to the business and performance issues are addressed by rerouting traffic using harm revenues.
Lengthy down-time of the site including in different routes or providers.
888 operates a 24 7 Network transitioning to activated disaster recovery servers could also Operations Centre NOC.
The NOC's role is to conduct cause 888 to breach regulatory obligations.
real time monitoring of production activities using state-ofthe-art systems.
These systems are designed to identify and Relevance to strategy provide alerts regarding problems related to systems, key As an online B2C and B2B business, the integrity of 888's business indicators and issues surrounding customer usability IT infrastructure is crucial to the supply of its offerings experience.
The IT environment tracks changes, incidents and and compliance with its regulatory obligations and to the service level agreement key performance indicators in order to maintenance of customer loyalty.
ensure that client experience is consistent and well managed.
As part of these procedures, capacity planning takes place How the risk is managed and infrastructure is built accordingly.
System-wide availability and business-level availability is measured and logged in the IT Cutting-edge technologies and procedures are implemented information systems.
throughout 888s technology operations and designed to protect its networks from malicious attacks and other such What happened in 2018 risks.
These measures include traffic filtering, anti-DDoS devices and obtaining anti-virus protection from leading Security Awareness training was carried out for Group vendors.
Physical and logical network segmentation is also personnel at all locations by the Chief Information Security used to isolate and protect 888s networks and restrict Officer.
New security practices and technologies were malicious activities.
The IT environment is audited by implemented with a focus on DDoS mitigation and GDPR independent auditors, such as PCI DSS security audit and readiness.
Infrastructure A new main data centre was built eCOGRA audit.
These audits form part of 888s approach to in Dublin using advanced IT architecture and technologies.
ensuring proper IT procedures and a high level of security.
In The new data centre introduces a very high standard of order to ensure systems are protected properly and effectively, redundancy and performance, and is expected to launch in external security scans and assessments are carried out on March 2019.
Operations 888 focused on operations analytics a regular basis.
888 has a disaster recovery site to ensure full as the next evolution of monitoring, implementing an elastic recovery in the event of disaster.
All critical data is replicated framework for near real-time log and KPI analysis.
to the disaster recovery site and stored off-site on a daily basis.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 27 Corporate.
888. com Risk Management Strategy Continued Taxation risk The risk Relevance to strategy Heightened attention continues to be given to matters In addition to the financial consequences of a challenge to of cross-border taxation in line with the G20 OECD Base 888s tax structure, tax compliance and being seen to be Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations.
On 21 March paying the right amount of tax has become a serious 2018, the European Union proposed new rules to implement reputational issue as well as being a regulatory compliance virtual permanent establishment criteria as well as interim issue.
As such, it is crucial that 888 has a solid basis for its tax measures to tax the digital economy, including a targeted positions taken in relevant jurisdictions.
turnover-based equalisation tax and potentially an EU-wide How the risk is managed advertising tax, which has led to introduction of web taxes in jurisdictions such as Italy and France.
In the UK, new rules 888 aims to ensure that each legal entity within its Group is a have been implemented from 1 April 2019 imposing UK tax tax resident of the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated and on the receipt of royalties by offshore companies deriving has no taxable presence in any other jurisdiction.
In addition, from business activity in the UK, whilst past proposals 888 consults with tax advisers not only in jurisdictions in regarding imposition in the UK of use and enjoyment which its Group companies are incorporated and in which VAT rules with respect to UK-facing advertising have not it has personnel, but also in major markets in which it has materially progressed.
In Gibraltar, legislation has been customers, in order to comply with its legal obligations whilst introduced to recover unpaid taxes following a European taking such action as is necessary to prevent the improper Commission ruling regarding illegal state aid given between imposition of unlawful or double taxation.
Due to pressure from the European Union, offshore jurisdictions including the British Virgin Islands have What happened in 2018 introduced new substance requirements with regard to 888 continues to engage with tax authorities and obtain IP companies and other entities.
The likelihood of scrutiny legal advice in order to regularise its tax position and of tax practices by tax authorities in relevant jurisdictions mitigate exposures.
As regards the inquiry in Germany and the aggressiveness of tax authorities remains high, regarding VAT, 888 received assessments for tax years with 888 receiving VAT assessments in Germany during 2010-2017 and accordingly partially released the provision 2018 relating to tax years 2010-2017, regarding which it had recorded in its financial statements in addition to the previously recorded a provision and contingent liability in contingent liability.
In Israel, the local subsidiary is undergoing its financial statements.
A finding of taxable presence of a tax audit and has also appealed a withholding tax the Group in one or more jurisdictions including pursuant assessment relating to tax years 2013-2016. to revised interpretations of the permanent establishment concept as mentioned above, a transfer pricing adjustment with respect to attribution of profit to such jurisdiction s, or imposition of another form of tax as mentioned above, may have a substantial impact on the amount of tax and VAT paid by 888 or require significant payments by 888 in respect of historical tax liabilities.
888s effective tax burden also increases due to the imposition or increase of gaming duty in markets in which the Group has customers, including the recently announced increase in the rate of UK remote gaming duty to 21% of GGR as from 1 April 2019, the additional Romanian gaming tax at 2% of deposits from 2019, and the increase in Italian gaming duty to 25% of GGR 24% for sports betting from 2019.
The Company's Israeli subsidiary entered into an Assessment Agreement with the Israeli Tax Authority in 2016, in which the subsidiary's transfer pricing remuneration was agreed with regard to tax years ending in 2015.
The Company believes that the remuneration attributed for tax purposes to its Israeli subsidiary complies with the arms length standard, and therefore continues to rely on the transfer pricing agreement with regard to tax years following 2015, however the agreement has not been renewed.
As such, and in light of the developments in taxation rules internationally, including in the field of transfer pricing pursuant to which new methodologies are gaining prominence, in the context of the tax audit detailed below, the Israeli Tax Authority may seek to increase the level of remuneration attributed to the Israeli subsidiary for tax purposes commencing from the 2016 tax year, which could have material financial consequences to the Company.
28 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Increase Decrease Stable Data Protection risk The risk How the risk is managed 888 processes a large quantity of personal customer data, 888 has undergone a robust and risk-oriented GDPRincluding sensitive data such as name, address, age, bank preparation project, pursuant to a designated GDPR Gap details and gaming betting history.
Such data could be Analysis that was prepared for that purpose in coordination wrongfully accessed or used by employees, customers, with its legal advisers.
suppliers or third parties, or lost, disclosed or improperly What happened in 2018 processed in breach of data protection regulations.
In particular, the European General Data Protection Regulation 888 mapped the personal data life-cycle within the GDPR entered into force in May 2018, having a significant organisation, including how personal data of its customers effect on the Companys privacy and data protection and EU employees is collected, stored, secured and shared practices, as it introduced various changes to how personal with third parties.
In addition, 888 appointed a designated information should be collected, maintained, processed and internal Data Protection Officer and put in place policies and secured.
Non-compliance with the GDPR may result in fines procedures on relevant matters including exercising user of up to 20 million or 4% of the Companys annual global rights and data retention, data sharing with third parties, turnover, and the Company will be particularly exposed security policies, as well as reviewing necessary product to enforcement action in light of the amount of customer and IT implementation.
Such policies and procedures are data it holds and processes.
In addition, various countries reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis to align with the in the EU have introduced domestic data protection laws most up to date regulatory guidelines.
888 has also put in incorporating the GDPR requirements.
The Company could place adequate contractual measures with respect to sharing also be subject to private litigation and loss of customer data with third parties, reviewing its privacy notices and goodwill and confidence.
other customer notifications and reviewing the current data security framework on an ongoing basis.
Relevance to strategy The holding and processing of personal and sensitive data in a lawful and robust manner is central to 888's analyticsbased business strategy.
As an online B2C and B2B business, the integrity of 888's data protection framework is crucial to the supply of its offerings, compliance with its regulatory obligations and maintenance of the impressive customer loyalty with which 888 is entrusted.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 29 Corporate.
888. com Risk Management Strategy Continued Reputational risk The risk What happened in 2018 The reputation of 888 is affected by the profile of both During 2018, the UKGC continued its regulatory enforcement other online gaming and betting operators, as well as the processes and actions which resulted in several public gaming and betting industry as a whole.
Various regulators, regulatory settlements with online operators, as published most notably the UKGC, have adopted stricter compliance by the Commission.
Such publications raise further concerns and enforcement policies, conducting more in-depth about the sectors compliance with regulatory requirements reviews of operational practices and sanctioning operators pertaining primarily to Anti-Money Laundering and Social found to be non-compliant.
There appears to be growing Responsibility.
888 continued to devote significant resources sentiment in various jurisdictions that existing regulations to putting in place prevention measures coupled with strict do not sufficiently protect minors and vulnerable players or internal procedures to protect customers, and monitor and do enough to prevent the use of illictly obtained funds for update procedures to ensure that minors are unable to gambling purposes.
This could result in reputational damage access their gaming sites.
888 also completed an upgrade to the Group, as well as in the adoption of stricter regulations of the Observer responsible gambling tool, to increase the and enhanced enforcement measures.
protection to players and ensure earlier and more efficient detection and prevention of instances of problem gambling, Relevance to strategy and updated its anti-money laundering policies to better detect players suspected of using illicit funds for gambling.
Underage and problem gaming, as well as the use of 888 has continued its review of all its websites and those illicit funds for gambling, are risks associated with any of its B2B partners in light of the UK Advertising Standards gaming business, and ensuring compliance with regulatory Authority and Committees of Advertising Practices review requirements for the protection of vulnerable people and of gaming industry practices, with a view to ensuring that the prevention of money laundering is critical to maintaining content that may be particularly appealing to children, 888s online gaming licences.
whether specific games or general creative elements on the site, have been removed or made accessible only after How the risk is managed a robust age verification process has been completed.
888 Staff are trained to provide a safe gaming experience to has also integrated with the National Online Self-Exclusion customers and to recognise and take appropriate actions Scheme also known as GAMSTOP to enable its customers if they identify compulsive or underage activity.
888 also to self-exclude themselves on national level from all UK online complies with eCOGRA guidelines to protect customers.
Web links to professional help agencies are provided on 888s real money gaming sites, and 888 has a dedicated website which provides information regarding responsible gaming.
Players can also limit their play pattern or request to be self-excluded.
888 furthermore directly or via industry bodies seeks to ensure that legislators and regulators are provided with accurate and useful information regarding protections against problem and underage gaming.
Partnership risks The risk How the risk is managed B2B partnerships expose 888 to business risks as well as 888 has reduced its dependency on B2B relationships, compliance and reputational risks, with increased pressure on following the acquisition of Costa Bingo and other formerly 888 as the licence holder, particularly from the UK Gambling B2B bingo brands.
Remaining B2B contracts are maintained Commission, to monitor activities of its B2B partners.
commercially in terms of the functionality and technology of the B2B platform offered, competitive pricing, maintaining an Relevance to strategy ongoing relationship with B2B partners, and ensuring that 888 has a good understanding of the needs of its B2B partners B2B remains a material part of 888s business, particularly and their owners.
for Bingo in the UK: in addition, its US B2B contracts have strategic importance for the longer term.
What happened in 2018-19 In early 2019, 888 acquired Costa Bingo and other formerly B2B bingo brands from its former B2B partner Jet Management.
30 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Increase Decrease Stable Acquisition risks The risk How the risk is managed 888 has made a number of acquisitions in the online gaming 888s legal, financial and tax advisers ensure that a and betting space.
Acquisitions of gaming companies carry comprehensive due diligence is carried out on potential business risks, such as overpaying for what are mainly acquisition targets.
Generally, 888 prefers to acquire assets intangible assets, as well as legal and regulatory risks, rather than shares of companies, in order to mitigate including the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals to exposure to any past non-compliance issues on the part the transaction and exposure to legacy non-compliance of the seller.
888 seeks to take into account the resources of the seller.
Furthermore, integration of acquired entities required to integrate acquired entities in its annual budgeting gives rise to a financial burden and the requirement of and planning.
management attention and operational resources.
What happened in 201819 Relevance to strategy In early 2019, 888 acquired Costa Bingo and other Ongoing consolidation of the online gaming market costs formerly B2B Bingo brands from its former partner has increased the importance of 888 being ready to acquire Jet Management, as well as acquiring smaller operators, particularly in business areas such as Sport the BetBright Sport business.
where 888s activity has historically been smaller.
Credit risks The risk How the risk is managed 888 has taken an RCF from Barclays 888 monitors its ongoing compliance with the relevant Bank plc in order to finance its activities.
The credit facility financial ratios.
888, in-house and via its legal counsel, also contains covenants by the Group regarding the maintenance monitor changes to the regulatory landscape which may have of certain financial ratios, as well as various regulatory an impact on its obligations under the credit facility.
What happened in 201819 Relevance to strategy In early 2019, 888 executed the revolving credit facility Ongoing consolidation of the online gaming market has with Barclays.
increased the importance of 888 being ready to acquire smaller operators, requiring readily available cash resources.
The Strategic Report, from pages 01 to 41, was reviewed, approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 12 March 2019.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 31
