169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:18 Page 5 Principal Risks The Board carefully considers risks faced by the Company and seeks to manage these risks through continual review, evaluation, mitigating controls and taking action as necessary.
Investment in small companies is generally perceived to carry more risk than investment in large companies.
While this is reasonable when comparing individual companies, it is much less so when comparing the risks inherent in diversified portfolios of small and large companies.
In addition, the Company has a simple capital structure and outsources all the main operational activities to recognised, well-established firms.
The principal risks faced by the Company, together with the approach taken by the Board towards them, have been summarised below.
Further information regarding the review process can be found in the Corporate Governance and Audit Committee Reports.
i Investment policy performance risk the Companys portfolio is exposed to share price movements owing to the nature of its investment policy and strategy.
The performance of the investment portfolio typically differs from the performance of the benchmark and is influenced by market related risks including market price and liquidity refer to Note 19 for further details.
The Boards aim is to achieve the investment objective over the long term by ensuring the investment portfolio is managed appropriately.
The Board has outsourced portfolio management to experienced managers with a clearly defined investment philosophy and investment process.
The Board receives regular and detailed reports on investment performance including detailed portfolio analysis, risk profile and attribution analysis.
Senior representatives of Aberforth Partners attend each Board meeting.
Peer group performance is also regularly monitored by the Board.
The Board and Managers closely monitor economic and political developments and, in particular, are mindful of the continuing uncertainty following the UK referendum result to leave the EU and other geopolitical issues referred to in the Managers Report.
ii Share price discount investment trust shares tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset values but a significant share price discount, or related volatility, could reduce shareholder returns and confidence.
The Board and the Managers monitor the discount on a daily basis both in absolute terms and relative to ASCoTs peers.
In this context, the Board intends to continue to use the buy-back authority as described in the Directors Report.
iii Gearing risk in rising markets, gearing enhances returns: however, in falling markets the gearing effect adversely affects returns to Shareholders.
The Board and the Managers consider the gearing strategy and associated risk on a regular basis.
iv Reputational risk the Board and the Managers monitor external factors outwith the Companys control affecting the reputation of the Company and or the key service providers and take action if appropriate.
v Regulatory risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys share price listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company losing investment trust status and, as a consequence, any capital gains would then be subject to capital gains tax.
The Board receives quarterly compliance reports from the Secretaries to evidence compliance with rules and regulations, together with information on future developments.
Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over the five years to December 2023, taking account of the Companys position, its investment strategy, and the potential impact of the relevant principal risks detailed above.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will meet its liabilities as they fall due and be able to continue in operation, notwithstanding that the Company's shareholders are to vote on the continuation of the Company in 2020.
In making this assessment, the Directors took comfort from the results of a series of stress tests that considered the impact of a number of severe market downturn scenarios on the Companys financial position and, in particular, its ability to settle projected liabilities of the Company as they fall due.
The Company invests in companies listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
These shares are actively traded and, whilst less liquid than larger quoted companies, the portfolio is well diversified by both numbers of holdings and industry sector.
The Directors determined that a five year period to December 2023 is an appropriate period for which to provide this statement given the Companys long term investment objective, the simplicity of the business model, the resilience demonstrated by the stress testing and the relatively low working capital requirements.
Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 5
