RISK MANAGEMENT The successful delivery of our strategy depends on our ability to manage risks appropriately in a manner that does not jeopardise the interests of our stakeholders.
We assess the principal risks to our business 2018 Principal risk review The allegations made are denied and the as part of ongoing business performance and For 2018 our principal risks have continued to criminal charges brought are being defended, operational reviews, as follows: fall within four broad categories: strategic risks, but there is a risk of continuing and further financial risks, external risks and operational legal or regulatory action by the GoT, or of We conduct Group-level risk workshops risks.
There has been no significant other regulatory or law enforcement action to consider overall strategic risks to improvement in the operating environment, in Tanzania and or the UK.
There is a direct the business.
"which remains challenging, influenced mainly correlation between our assessment of We conduct operational risk workshops by the continuing dispute with the Government political, legal and regulatory risk and our focused on specific operational risks in of Tanzania ""GoT"" and delays in reaching a assessment of single country risk, given the the context of each of our operations."
This has led material exposure that the Group has to We conduct functional risk workshops to to the makeup of our principal risks remaining developments within Tanzania and lack of assess key matters which could affect relatively consistent throughout 2018. geographical diversification of our operating underlying support functions, such as assets.
Similarly, risk ratings relating to the treasury, tax, technical services and However, in-country stakeholder reaction to the Groups ability to attract and retain employees business improvement, required for our prolonged situation in Tanzania along with other has increased year on year given ongoing long-term business plans.
global developments and trends affecting the challenges within the operating environment We ensure that principal risks are wider mining industry, have resulted in changes and the impact that this may have on assessed as material components of to our assessment of the risk profiles that employees.
A corresponding increase has our monthly operational and financial principally affect our business: these being also been made to our assessment of risk performance reporting.
thefollowing: that undermines our social licence to operate Our annual business plan and budgeting Political, legal and regulatory developments and the support we receive from stakeholders, process incorporates risks identified as a result Single country risk given the impact that ongoing disputes with of these reviews.
Residual risks are identified Attraction and retention of employees the Government has on wider stakeholder based on the effectiveness of existing controls.
Significant changes to commodity prices perception.
As a result of this, we have The principal risks identified via this process Liquidity introduced social licence to operate and key are then monitored, assessed and reviewed Social licence to operate and key stakeholder support as a standalone and new throughout the year by the Executive Leadership stakeholder support principle risk this year.
In addition, in light of Team in the first instance, the Audit and EHS&S Reserve and resource estimates industry-wide focus on risks relating to tailings and other Board Committees where relevant to Environmental hazards and rehabilitation storage facilities and in light of increased their respective remits of responsibility, and Safety risks relating to mining operations Government inspections at North Mara, ultimately by the Board, as part of Acacias Operational security and theft we have increased the residual risk continuing assessment of risk trends and impact assessment related to the risk of Overall, non-technical risks falling across a developments.
range of risk categories strategic, external Further detail as regards to the outcome of the and operational continue to rate highly The continuation of reduced operations at Boards internal control and risk management across principal risks identified.
Together, Bulyanhulu has led to a reduction in the risk review for the year is provided on page 76 of these impact the rating of our liquidity risk.
profile of safety risks relating to mining the Corporate Governance Report Internal operations fall of ground, uncontrolled fires In terms of political, legal and regulatory Control and below.
and mobile equipment incidents, however, developments, throughout the course of 2018 we continue to monitor this as a principal the operating environment became increasingly risk due to the importance of health and challenging for Acacia with criminal charges safety to ourbusiness.
brought by the GoT against three current Acacia employees and a former employee, three of The principal risk chart opposite shows how whom continue to be held under non-bailable we have allocated residual risk ratings across offences, and against three Tanzanian these principal risks for 2018. operating companies see above, Market Overview.
30 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT In addition, the table entitled Principal Principal risk chart: residual risk ranking Risks and Uncertainties overleaf sets out a description of each of our principal risks, 1.
P olitical, legal and regulatory Developments along with commentary regarding management responsibility, Committee and Board oversight, 2.
S ingle country risk relevance to strategy, mitigating action and the status of the risk in 2018 for further 3.
A ttraction and retention of employees information purposes.
We also chart year-on-year trends and continuing impact assessments.
In addition to those risks stated, 4.
S ignificant changes to commodity prices there may be additional risks unknown to Acacia and other risks, currently believed to 5.
Liquidity risk be immaterial or that relate to the wider gold mining industry, which could turn out to be 6.
S ocial licence to operate and NEW material to the Group.
Additional discussions key stakeholder support new of certain trends and uncertainties that may affect our operations are provided in other 7.
Reserve and resource estimates parts of this Strategic report.
E nvironmental hazards and rehabilitation Assessment of viability In addition to annual risk management 9.
S afety risks relating to mining operations reviews, we also conducted additional reviews relating to business viability relevant 10.
Operational security and theft to our assessment of Acacias ongoing viability and the related confirmations required to be made in thisregard.
Ranking in 2017 Ranking in 2018 Low residual risk High residual risk In assessing the viability of the business the Directors have taken into account the developments and trends across the However they have concluded that the In addition, the life of mine planning process is Companys principal risks and related combination of the above circumstances underpinned by regular Board briefings as part ongoing uncertainties affecting our business represents a material uncertainty that may of ongoing periodic operational performance and in particular the ongoing political, legal cast significant doubt on the Groups ability reviews and the discussion of any operational and regulatory developments affecting our to remain viable.
initiatives to be undertaken in the ordinary course operating environment, as explained in this of business.
In addition to this and in light of the We continue to assess viability over a threeRisk Management section and throughout challenges faced in 2018 management has year assessment period on the basis of the this Annual Report.
enhanced its liquidity assessments for going key components and criteria that continue concern and viability purposes.
In addition, the Directors consideration of to underpin the Acacia Groups life of mine viability is subject to all considerations and planning process.
This process is built on a The information relating to Acacias assumptions taken into account as part of mine by mine basis using a detailed physical performance included on pages 36 to 49 the 2018 carrying value review outlined on page and financial model.
inclusive of this Annual Report is incorporated 81 and the going concern statement by reference into this Strategic report and is It makes certain assumptions as regards on page 55 of this Annual Report.
deemed to form part of this Strategic report.
the ongoing gold price environment and the After making appropriate enquiries and performance level of each mine.
Each considering the uncertainties described above, component of the plan is then stress tested the Directors have a reasonable expectation for market sensitivities as part of ongoing that the Acacia Group will continue to operate reviews.
The key components of the plans, and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, associated principal risks and relevant for the next three years should the operating scenario testing to this planning process are environment not further deteriorate.
reviewed by the Directors at least annually.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 31
