PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We define principal risks as those risks or combination of risks that would threaten our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Executive Board board Relevance Change leadership committee to Potential from team oversight strategic Further Risk impact 2017 responsibility responsibility 2018 Status Mitigation comment pillars information Strategic risks Single country risk All of our revenue is derived from production at our operations in Tanzania.
"To ensure continued growth, the High CEO CFO Board This risk is elevated in the current operating environment in Tanzania and We seek to assess a wide range of potential growth Please see our Group needs to identify new resources and development opportunities through exploration and acquisition Acacias current disputes with the Government of Tanzania ""GoT"" where opportunities to build on our existing portfolio, particularly Exploration targets."
The identification of potential growth opportunities in other territories is required to strengthen the the courses of action available to the Company are limited.
acquisition and development opportunities outside Tanzania review and the business through geographic diversification in order to mitigate the effects that significant in-country to maximise growth potential and to help mitigate the Strategic report.
Work, however, continues in the progression of core exploration projects in developments could have on our operations and business.
effects that significant developments in Tanzania could Kenya, Burkina Faso and Mali.
Financial risks Significant changes to commodity prices Our financial performance is highly dependent on the price of gold and, to a lesser extent, the price of copper High CFO Board In 2018 we implemented additional gold price protection measures over the We monitor our exposure to commodity price fluctuations as Please see our and silver.
Fluctuations in the pricing of these commodities, which are largely attributable to factors beyond our short term and will continue to assess the requirement for further price part of financial and treasury planning and controls Financial review.
control, will likely have a corresponding impact on our financial condition, particularly in the context of rapid protection arrangements.
We conduct ongoing reviews of hedging policies for certain commodity exposures and implement strategic protections to secure cash flows from sales revenues.
Liquidity risk Our primary source of liquidity is operating cash flow together with cash holdings and credit facilities.
Impacts High CFO Board Through 2018, we have faced increased risks of impacts on operating cash Ongoing mitigation of the risk includes the general Please see our on operating cash flows may present a risk of the Group not having access to sufficient funds to meet its flows due to the concentrate ban and resulting actions that have adversely continuation of cost control and cost discipline within the Financial review.
Actions taken during 2018 to mitigate business and reduction in corporate overheads, the deferral this risk include: of capital expenditure, where possible, and active management of cash and cash equivalents.
Maintaining Bulyanhulu mine on reduced operations.
Continuing to secure gold price protection via hedging programmes.
Continuing to review the divestment opportunities for non-core assets and looking to opimise the exploration programme.
Cost reduction programmes with restructuring of corporate office and Bulyanhulu break-even project.
External risks Political, legal and regulatory developments Our exploration, development and operational activities are subject to extensive laws and regulations High CEO Head of Board In 2018 the GoT continued to ban the export of mineral concentrates and We continue to seek a negotiated solution for the resolution Please see our governing various matters in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Our ability to conduct business is Legal and enforce new laws and regulations in the natural resources sector and the of all disputes with the GoT by all available means, including Strategic report.
dependent on stable and consistent interpretation and application of laws and regulations applicable to Compliance mining industry in particular.
This has resulted in the ongoing deterioration those that may be achieved through Barricks ongoing mining activities and our operations, particularly in Tanzania.
Changes to existing applicable laws and in relations between industry stakeholders and the GoT through its various negotiations with the GoT.
regulations, a more stringent application or interpretation of applicable law and regulation, or inconsistencies agencies.
In addition the GoT brought criminal charges against In the meantime, the Group continues to protect its rights via and irregularities in the interpretation of applicable law and regulation by relevant Government authorities Group companies and employees.
the arbitration processes commenced under the Bulyanhulu have and could adversely affect the progression of our operations and development projects.
Our operations and Buzwagi MDAs and continues to dispute the erroneous and financial condition have and will also be adversely affected if existing Mineral Development Agreements tax assessments via legal procedures.
All allegations are are not honoured by the GoT.
The Group may also be adversely affected by changes in global economic denied and criminal charges are being defended, but there is conditions, and political and or economic instability in Tanzania or any of its surrounding countries and any a risk of continuing and further legal or regulatory action by continuation in legal or regulatory action brought against employees or companies within the Acacia Group the GoT, or of other regulatory or law enforcement action in in connection with disputes with the GoT.
Social licence to operate and key stakeholder support The establishment of a sustainable operating environment is highly dependent on our ability to engage and or High CEO EHS&S The current political environment and a hardening attitude towards the Group We continue to focus on improving relations with our key Please see our manage relations with government and other internal external stakeholders.
Deterioration in these relations Committee through the concentrate export ban along with statements from Government stakeholders through the development and rollout of various Sustainability may have a significant impact on mining operations resulting from operational disruptions and asset vandalism officials have negatively impacted relations with key stakeholders.
There are relationship strategies and internal external communication.
also concerns around Acacias ability to meet stakeholders expectations in In addition, we continue to focus on the closure of legacy the face of these severe socioeconomic challenges.
social obligations and the implementation of the Sustainable Further enhancing this risk is the reduced local employment resulting from the Communities Strategy.
end of mining at Buzwagi and Bulyanhulu being on reduced operations.
32 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Pillars Key Our Business Increase Our People Decrease Our Relationships Our Future Executive Board board Relevance Change leadership committee to Potential from team oversight strategic Further Risk impact 2017 responsibility responsibility 2018 Status Mitigation comment pillars information Strategic risks Single country risk All of our revenue is derived from production at our operations in Tanzania.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 33 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Executive Board board Relevance Change leadership committee to Potential from team oversight strategic Further Risk impact 2017 responsibility responsibility 2018 Status Mitigation comment pillars information Operational risks Attraction and Retention of Employees Our business depends upon our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, such as skilled engineers High CEO Board The challenges in retaining and attracting key staff are elevated by volatility in We have embarked on training programmes and leadership Please see and geologists.
The loss of skilled workers and a failure to recruit and train equivalent replacements may the current operating environment as well as safety concerns stemming from development programmes to develop local industry our Strategic affect our operations and production.
the interrogation, detention and arrest of several Group employees in 2018. expertise and continue the progression of our localisation report and strategy.
Sustainability In addition, there is increased difficulty in securing work permits for critical review.
expats and a damage to the Group reputation as a result of the ongoing Long-term incentive and retention programmes have been dispute with the GoT.
introduced to address retention because of developments in our operating environment.
Reserve and resource estimates The reserves and resources estimates are based on a range of assumptions and factors.
Changes to these High CEO Board The increase in this risk reflects the ongoing challenges in our We seek to manage the varying nature of reserve and Details of our assumptions, including for commodity price, operating environment and applicable changes in law may impact operating environment and the impact that these external factors may resource estimates through our life of mine planning reserves and on the input parameters to the estimates.
This in turn may impact on economic recoverability of tonnages or have on our reserves and resources calculation and, ultimately carrying procedures, periodic reviews of such estimates and resources are grades in current reserve and resource estimates.
production targets and by ensuring that our reserve and set out in the resource estimates are calculated and reported on in reserves and accordance with the requirements of NI 43-101 of the resources Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and Petroleum.
A Reserve and Resource governance team ensures standards are being adhered to, and changes to policy and legislation are taken into account.
The team reviews assumptions made in the reserve process and a periodic external review of models along with the entire resource process has also been established.
Environmental hazards and rehabilitation Our operations are subject to environmental hazards because of the processes and chemicals used in our High CEO EHS&S Throughout 2018 we have maintained our focus on environmental objectives We use environmental management systems and Please see extraction and production methods.
Should environmental incidents occur despite the mitigating measures Committee in support of our environmental strategy and have continued to make controls across our operations to provide for appropriate our Strategic implemented, we may be liable for losses and costs associated with environmental hazards at our operations, enhancements to the Groups environmental management plans along with environmental practices, including the adoption of report and our have our licences and permits withdrawn or suspended, or may be forced to undertake extensive clean-up regular environmental audits inspections.
specific environmental management plans for each of Operating and and remediation action.
We also monitor mining and operational Sustainability activities against key international standards, such as the reviews.
International Cyanide Management Code, and assess remediation and rehabilitation costs on an annual basis.
Safety risks relating to mining operations Our mining operations are subject to the usual hazards and safety risks in a mining workplace, such as fall of Moderate CEO EHS&S Throughout 2018 we have continued to enhance safety management systems We use a wide range of safety management systems to Please see ground relating to underlying geotechnical risks, potential fires and mobile equipment incidents.
Should safety Committee and critical risk control standards for key operational safety risks in order to safeguard safety in the workplace.
We provide continuous our Strategic incidents occur despite the mitigating measures implemented, we may be liable for associated losses and maintain our objectives for health and safety.
training and supervision on safety management to promote report and our costs or have our operations suspended or licences or permits withdrawn.
and embed the use of safe operating practices.
Operating and Reduced operations at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi have led to a reduction in the Sustainability overall safety risk profile however this still remains a significant risk that is reviews.
closely being monitored by the Group, particularly in light of the fatality at North Mara.
Operational security and theft We face risks to our businesses in relation to gold thefts and wider security-related matters relating to Moderate CEO Head of EHS&S Throughout 2018 we have continued to review and enhance our security Our security management system adopts a range of Please see our trespass, vandalism and serious security-related incidents on our operations, and illegal mining in areas Legal and Committee model in line with our objectives for operational security through the measures to protect employees, assets, operations and Sustainability covered by the Groups exploration and mining licences, all of which may have an adverse effect upon Compliance decentralisation of the Security function across the Group.
We have also people, including local communities, from operational review.
Group operations and financial condition.
continued to enhance security and human rights training, ongoing reviews security risks.
Our approach to security management is of community grievance processes, and ongoing engagements with local guided by the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human policeforces.
These measures include the implementation of security checks and procedures: Reduced operations at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi have led to a reduction in the infrastructure such as perimeter and asset fencing and overall security and theft risk profile, however the risk still remains significant surveillance equipment: contracts with private security at North Mara where concerns around flare-ups persist given the proximity providers and Memoranda of Understanding with local and economic circumstances of the communities around the mine, and the police forces with clear expectations regarding respect current environment created by the ongoing dispute with the GoT.
for human rights: support for human rights training for private security personnel and the police: and community grievance processes.
34 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Pillars Key Our Business Increase Our People Decrease Our Relationships Our Future Executive Board board Relevance Change leadership committee to Potential from team oversight strategic Further Risk impact 2017 responsibility responsibility 2018 Status Mitigation comment pillars information Operational risks Attraction and Retention of Employees Our business depends upon our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, such as skilled engineers High CEO Board The challenges in retaining and attracting key staff are elevated by volatility in We have embarked on training programmes and leadership Please see and geologists.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 35
