Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board, with support from the Group Risk Committee and the Group Risk Department, undertakes a regular and robust assessment of the principal risks.
These risks have been summarised as those which would threaten its business model, future performance, liquidity and solvency.
These principal risks have not materially changed over the previous 12 months, although it is noted that as the Group continues to diversify away from UK Motor, the key risks to the new businesses are expected to become more material and begin to feature more prominently within the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
In relation to Brexit risks, Admiral executed a part VII transfer of European policies to its new entity based in Spain, AECS.
This action mitigated the risk of not being able to write business in its European businesses post 29 March 2019.
Other risks, referred to in the viability section of the report see page 84, that have been considered include operational risks such as green cards and vehicle parts inflation.
Admiral also considered the potential financial risks arising from an economic downturn on its business.
Please refer to page 49 for further detail.
During 2018 Admiral ran a number of economic scenarios with particular focus on its new lending business, AFSL.
The table below sets out the principal risks which Admiral has identified through its Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
The impact of those risks and actions taken to mitigate them are explained below.
Insurance Risk Reserving Risk in the UK and international insurance Admiral is exposed to reserving risk through its underwriting of motor and household insurance policies.
Claims reserves in the financial statements may prove inadequate to cover the ultimate cost of earned claims which are by nature uncertain.
This is a particular risk for motor insurance liabilities, where the amount payable for bodily injury claims particularly large claims can change significantly during the lifetime of the claim as a result of external risks such as changes in Ogden rates and impacts of increased levels of Periodical Payment Orders.
Impact Mitigating Factors Adverse run-off leading to Admiral has a conservative reserving policy and continues to hold a material margin in its higher claims costs in the financial statement claims reserves above actuarially determined best estimates to cover financial statements.
adverse developments PPO claims are capital Best estimate reserves are estimated both internally and externally by independent actuaries.
intensive owing to increased For very large claims Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, which mitigates a portion of uncertainty of the cost of the loss.
significant claims over a Regular reviews of both settled and potential PPO cases are undertaken by the Claims longer term.
and Actuarial teams, with independent Actuarial opinions provided as part of the external reserving analysis.
Admirals investment portfolio is the result of a structured, disciplined and transparent investment process which considers settled and potential future PPOs.
52 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Premium Risk & Catastrophe Risk The Group is exposed to the risk that claims cost on future business is higher than allowed for in the premiums charged to customers.
The Group is exposed to the risk of increased claims and reduced business volumes following both a UK and European recession.
Catastrophe Risk: Admiral is exposed to the risk of high losses due to the occurrence of man-made catastrophes or natural weather events, potentially increased in frequency and severity due to climate change.
Impact Mitigating Factors Higher claims costs and loss There are a number of aspects which contribute to Admirals strong UK underwriting results, including: ratios, resulting in reduced Experienced and focused senior management and teams in key business areas including pricing and profits or underwriting losses.
claims management: A large flood or windstorm Highly data-driven and analytical approach to regular monitoring of claims and underwriting performance: causes extensive property Capability to identify and resolve underperformance promptly through changes to key performance damage both motor and drivers, particularly pricing: household to a significant Continuous appraisal of and investment in staff, systems and processes: and proportion of the portfolio, Admiral monitors the impact arising from climate change, that is captured as an Emerging Risk.
leading to a large total claims cost in relation to the event.
Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, designed to mitigate the impact of very large individual or catastrophe event claims.
Reduced availability of co-insurance and reinsurance arrangements Admiral uses proportional coinsurance and reinsurance across its insurance businesses to reduce its own capital needs and increase return on the capital it does hold and to mitigate the cost and risk of establishing new operations.
There is a risk that support will not be available in the future if the results and or future prospects of either the UK business or more realistically one or more of the newer operations are not satisfactory to the coand or reinsurers.
Impact Mitigating Factors A potential need to raise Admiral mitigates the risk to its reinsurance arrangements by ensuring that it has a diverse range of additional capital to support an financially secure partners.
Admiral continues to enjoy a long-term relationship with some of the worlds largest reinsurers.
This could be in the form of Admiral also has relationships with a number of other reinsurers.
As well as UK Motor, long term arrangements are also in place for UK Household and Return on capital might reduce International businesses.
Potential diminution of Other Revenue Admiral earns other revenue from a portfolio of products and other sources.
The level of this revenue could diminish due to regulatory or legal changes, customer behaviour, strategic reasons or market forces.
Impact Mitigating Factors Lower profits from insurance Admiral continuously assesses the value to its customer of the products it offers, and makes changes operations and lower return on to ensure the products continue to meet customer needs and offer good value.
Admiral seeks to minimise reliance on any single source by earning revenue from a range of products.
This would mitigate the impact of a regulatory change which might affect a particular product or income stream.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Group Risk Erosion of competitive advantage in UK Car Insurance Admiral typically maintains a significant combined ratio advantage over the UK market.
This advantage and or the level of underwriting profit and associated profit commission could be eroded.
This risk could be exacerbated by irrational competitor pricing and or new technologies used within the insurance market.
It may arise from new or existing competitors.
Impact Mitigating Factors A worse UK Car Insurance Admirals focus remains on the wide range of factors that contribute to Admirals combined result and lower return on ratio outperformance of the UK market.
Some are set out earlier in the Strategic Report, but capital employed.
in addition: A sustained and uncorrected Track record of innovation and ability to react quickly to market conditions and erosion of competitive developments: and advantage could affect Keen focus on maintaining a low-cost infrastructure and efficient acquisition costs.
the ability of Admiral to extend its reinsurance arrangements, which might in turn require Admiral to hold more capital.
Failure of geographic and or product expansion Admiral continues to develop the UK Household, non-insurance operations such as loans and expand its overseas operations.
One or more of the operations could fail to become a sustainable, profitable longterm business.
Product expansion into new areas could lead to unprofitable business and increased regulatory risk.
Growth in business plans exceed the scale of infrastructure of the operation.
Impact Mitigating Factors Higher than planned losses and Admirals approach to expansion and product development remains conservative, applying potentially closure costs and the test and learn philosophy that has proven successful for previous operations.
International insurance businesses have generally executed cautious launch strategies and are all backed by proportional reinsurance support which provides substantial mitigation A collective failure of these against start-up losses in the early years.
businesses would threaten Admirals objective to diversify New price comparison businesses have aligned their marketing investment with the its earnings by expanding into extent of improvement in key performance indicators such as average cost per quote and new markets and products.
The Group also accepts partial disposals of equity to share start-up losses with partners.
The Directors are mindful of management stretch and regularly assess the suitability of the infrastructure and management structure in place for Admirals new UK and international operations.
54 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Reliance on UK Price Comparison distribution channel Admiral is dependent on the four main UK price comparison websites as an important source of new business and growth.
Growth in this distribution channel could slow, cease or reverse, or Admiral could lose one or more of the websites as a source of customers.
Impact Mitigating Factors A potentially material reduction Admirals ownership of Confused.
com one of the leading UK price comparison websites which operates in UK Car Insurance new independently of the UK Car Insurance business helps to mitigate the risk of overreliance on this business volumes.
However, a more competitive Admiral also contributes materially to the revenues of other price comparison businesses and therefore market might benefit the car it is not considered probable that a material source of new business would be lost.
insurance business through Admiral continues to invest in opportunities to diversify its distribution channels, in particular through lower acquisition costs.
Counterparty Risk Admiral is primarily exposed to credit risk in the form of a default of reinsurer: b failure of banking or investment counterparty.
One or more counterparties suffer significant losses leading to a credit default.
Market volatility and adverse developments to macroeconomic factors can lead to increased risk of defaults on the loans business.
Impact Mitigating Factors Additional capital may need to Admiral only conducts business with reinsurers of appropriate financial strength.
In addition, most be raised as a result of a major reinsurance contracts are operated on a funds-withheld basis, which substantially reduces credit risk, credit event, dependent on its as Admiral holds the cash received as collateral.
Concentrations of credit risk are managed by investing in liquidity funds which invest in a wide range Admiral would also need to of short duration, high quality securities.
Cash balances and deposits are placed only with highly rated ensure that it continues to have credit institutions.
Some long term investments are held in Government bonds to further mitigate the sufficient liquid assets to meet exposure to credit risk.
its claims and other liabilities as Admiral considers counterparty exposure frequently and in significant detail, and has in place they fell due.
appropriate triggers and limits, to mitigate exposure to individual investment counterparties.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Market Risk Market risk arises as a result of fluctuations in the value of market prices of investment assets, liabilities, or the income from our investment portfolio.
Impact Mitigating Factors Market volatility notably The Groups investment strategy focuses on preservation of the amount invested, low volatility of very significant reductions in returns and strong liquidity.
The majority of the portfolio is invested in high quality fixed income risk free interest rates can and other debt securities, and money market funds in order to achieve these objectives.
adversely impact the Groups The Groups mitigation for interest rate risk resulting from long duration PPO liabilities solvency due to an increased includes a comprehensive level of reinsurance cover and continuing focus on strategies to regulatory valuation of ensure that the risks relating to both assets and liabilities are appropriately matched.
claims liabilities, in particular The Group has relatively low exposure to net assets and liabilities in currencies other than in relation to longer dated pound sterling.
Market volatility and adverse developments to macroeconomic factors, including Brexit, can lead to increased risk of defaults on the Loans business.
Operational Risk Legal and Regulatory risk Failure to comply with legal or regulatory requirements and or changes.
Unexpected regulatory changes are introduced.
Impact Mitigating Factors Exposure to regulatory Mitigated by regular review of the Groups compliance with current and proposed intervention, censure and or requirements including the General Data Protection Regulation and interaction with enforcement action through regulators by Executive Management and the Board.
There is continued investment in resources to prepare for a Partial Internal Model Market wide impacts to the application.
The project provides regular progress updates with the Board and Regulators.
UK insurance sector from Enhanced project governance is a key control in managing regulatory change.
potential regulatory changes and initiatives.
56 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Operational Risk Operational risk arises within all areas of the business.
The principal categories of operational risk for Admiral are: People IT Systems Business Continuity Outsourcing Processes Information Security Customer Outcomes Project Risk Impact Mitigating Factors The risk of reductions in We aim to attract, retain and motivate quality staff to deliver quality customer service and achieve earnings and or value, through business objectives.
financial or reputational loss, Succession planning is based on targeted recruitment, identifying potential leaders through internal from inadequate or failed development, talent management and retention processes.
internal processes and systems, Internal controls are in place and monitored to mitigate the risk and the control framework is regularly or from people related or reviewed.
The internal audit function has an agreed cycle of testing of the adequacy and effectiveness of controls.
In particular: Regular review of the effectiveness of the Groups IT capability by Executive Management and the Board.
Potential customer detriment and or potential regulatory Enhanced project governance and oversight of new systems implementations with external specialist censure enforcement and or review and assurance where required.
reputational damage as a result Admiral continues to invest in its Security Programme in order to mitigate Information Security risks, of Admirals action.
Risk to Admiral occurs through Within IT there is a major incident team which is tasked with maintaining system availability, with the losses that could occur if business continuity and disaster recovery plans in place.
the internal control framework Data is backed up to allow for its recovery in the event of corruption.
to manage these business Admiral monitors its outsourced and offshore activities, through ongoing supplier relationship and processes fails.
performance management, with regular due diligence reviews.
Admiral operates the three lines of defence model for overseeing its products, processes and service.
At each stage of the customer journey customer outcomes are monitored, managed and reported in Confidentiality of data.
order to mitigate customer detriment.
Admiral purchases a range of insurance covers to mitigate the impact of a number of operational risks.
Emerging Risks In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties, Admiral Group monitors emerging risks which could materialise into, or significantly impact existing principal risks and uncertainties.
Admirals emerging risk framework is a key tool for horizon scanning with developments reported to the relevant Boards and Committees on a regular basis.
Emerging risks are defined as trends or events that are considered to have a potentially significant impact to the Group, with a high degree of uncertainty around the likelihood of occurrence, severity or timescales.
Emerging risks are classified into the following segments a legal and regulatory, capturing relevant legislations and regulations, b socio-political and economic, c environmental and d technology related.
Admiral continues to scan the risk horizon and monitor any developments to emerging risks, undertaking reviews and assessments of the potential impacts as information becomes available.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57
