RISK Risk factors that could affect business performance The Group recognises the importance of identifying and actively managing the financial and nonfinancial risks facing the business.
We want our people to feel empowered to take advantage of attractive opportunities, yet we want them to do so within the risk appetite set by the Board.
It is important that we have in place a robust, repeatable risk management framework to facilitate this.
Risk management framework roles and responsibilities The Board has implemented a risk management framework that is summarised in the diagram below.
Ultimate responsibility for risk management and internal control Approves the risk management framework Approves risk appetite and monitors compliance Ultimate Approves the Group Register of Principal Risks responsibility Board Approves the viability statement Responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems for internal control and risk management Oversight Reviews and challenges the risk management Audit Committee framework makes recommendations Reviews the effectiveness of the control environment to the Board Reviews the effectiveness of and approves the approach for the viability statement Responsible for implementing and embedding risk management and internal controls fide fines the risk management process to be followed by the business including risk appetite Management and monitoring Reviews and challenges the Group Register of Group Risk Committee Principal Risks ensuring controls identi ed are operating and tracks closure of items makes recommendations to the Audit Committee and Board Facilitates the Groups risk process, collating risk registers and consolidating the Group Register of Principal Risks Aligns assurance activity Responsible for identi cation, prioritisation, assessment and monitoring of risks which may Ownership arise in the business Business units, Senior Leadership Team Risks and associated controls are owned and operated and central functions by management supported by Group Risk Risk registers are maintained and form the basis of the Group Register of Principal Risks Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 38 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Approach to managing risk Focus during the year Risks promoted to the Groups register this year: Our approach to risk management In 2018, we have continued to develop aims to deliver effective and ef cient our risk management framework.
Our Global macroeconomic uncertainty: management of risk, while also making Group Risk function has worked with Geopolitical and global a positive contribution to effective experts within our business to identify macroeconomic uncertainty may decision making and performance the causes and consequences of each result in lower than expected GDP improvement.
risk event in Aggrekos universe as well growth, reducing demand for our as the effectiveness of our preventions services.
The Group compiles a Register of and mitigations.
We have developed a Principal Risks from risk registers Escalating sanctions: Sanctions have yardstick to let us compare the likelihood held by our business units and central been extended in some countries in and impact of different kinds of risk.
We monitor the level of each which we operate.
Further extensions This has allowed us to make the first risk against our appetite for it using to sanctions could restrict our ability quantitative estimate of the aggregate quantitative and qualitative measures to service existing customers and win risk that the business faces.
and identify any actions required new work.
to manage the residual risk, after We have been aligning our assurance Change management: One of considering our existing controls.
activities to our risk framework so our strategic priorities is to update that we can use the results to inform Rental Solutions systems and estimates of the effectiveness of our Risk appetite processes to better meet the needs preventions and mitigations and to The Group is willing to take and manage of our customers.
We are in a critical identify opportunities to improve considered risks within clear boundaries period of implementation during ef ciency.
This, together with the set by the Executive Committee and which the likelihood of disruption opinions of our business experts and approved by the Board.
We have fide ned to operations is highest.
monitoring the external environment, our appetite for risks in each of the has helped us identify emerging risks categories below and use this to decide for the last two years, well ahead of the Risks relegated from last what mitigation is required for each risk.
introduction of the new requirement years register: of the UK corporate governance code Equipment obsolescence: While from 2019. we have been introducing new eet Risk categories and technologies into our business, We allocate risks into the five Changes since 2017 we have focused on ensuring the categories below and use them Our Group Register of Principal Risks continued utilisation of our older to help fide ne our risk appetite.
will change from time to time as we eet.
We have successfully identi ed take action to improve the management applications which best utilise this Strategic of risks, improve the processes we use eet and as a result the risk that Risks related to the Groups ability to to identify risks and as the business this equipment becomes obsolete deliver on strategic priorities.
environment in which we operate before the end of its useful life has Operational evolves.
This year, we have seen three now reduced.
Risks arising from people, processes additional risks promoted to the Group Funding our strategic plan: The and systems impacting upon ef cient register and two risks relegated.
risk that an unexpected funding and effective operations.
requirement for working capital Hazard affects our ability to fund the strategic Risks related to the wellbeing of our plan has fallen as a result of initiatives people and the wider stakeholders to improve the forecasting and with whom we interact.
Compliance Risks related to non-compliance with government and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Financial Risks which might impact upon our ability to meet our financial expectations and obligations.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 RISK CONTINUED Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic: Strategic: The Directors have carried out Global macroeconomic Market dynamics a robust assessment of the uncertainty Power Solutions principal risks and uncertainties facing Aggreko, including those Executive responsible Executive responsible that would threaten our future Stephen Beynon, Managing Director Chris Weston, Chief Executive Of cer performance, business model, Power Solutions Risk solvency and liquidity.
The list Risk Lower than expected global GDP over the following pages is not Changes in utility power markets reduces demand exhaustive: our operations reduce returns from our Power Solutions Primary KPI impacted Utility business are large and geographically Capital activity diverse and the list might Primary KPI impacted Customer activity change if something that seems Capital activity immaterial today becomes Earnings per share Customer activity more important tomorrow.
Operating pro t margin Customer loyalty The order in which our principal Return on capital employed Earnings per share risks are presented follows our Revenue growth Operating pro t margin risk categorisation model.
Background and impact Return on capital employed Several geopolitical factors have the Revenue growth potential to impact upon our ability to meet our forecast performance for 2019 Background and impact and beyond.
A change in utility power market dynamics could have a material impact Uncertainty with respect to Brexit: oil on revenue and pro t. price volatility: Russian foreign policy unpredictability: US trade policy shifts: The impact of commodity prices on and the potential for a global economic the economies of developing countries slowdown due to potentially lower has reduced their capacity to pay for growth in China each have the potential temporary power.
to impact upon our forecasts.
Customer buying power has increased Prevention and mitigation because of more competition for power projects.
Market analysis and monitoring Market and product diversi cation The power gap may reduce as permanent power solutions come Mobile, modular, homogeneous online.
equipment allows transfer between Prevention and mitigation markets Further development of our Power Improved sales and marketing Solutions Industrial business capability, resourcing and performance management Mobile, modular, homogeneous equipment allows transfer between Technology improvements make markets our offerings more competitive Improved sales capability, resourcing Internal ef ciency improvements and performance management will make us more competitive Market analysis Delivery of our strategic priorities to improve the ease with which Technology improvements make customers can do business with us our offerings more competitive Changes during 2018 Internal ef ciency improvements The factors noted above have escalated will make us more competitive over the course of the year, resulting Changes during 2018 in increased levels of uncertainty as We have had a challenging year in to whether global GDP forecasts will our Power Solutions Utility business, be met.
primarily due to known off-hires in Zimbabwe, Bangladesh and Japan and Read more about our perspectives lower volumes and pricing in Argentina.
on Brexit on page 45 A cost reduction programme is in progress to increase the ef ciency of our operations.
We also continue to develop our Industrial business, this having seen good growth in 2018.
Read more about Power Solutions performance on page 25 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 40 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic: Strategic: Strategic: Market dynamics Disruptive technology Talent management Rental Solutions Executive responsible Executive responsible Executive responsible Bruce Pool, President Rental Solutions Dan Ibbetson, Managing Director Global Anna Filipopoulos, Group Human Products & Technology Resources Director Risk Challenging market dynamics reduce Risk Risk volume and pro tability in our Rental The introduction of new technology into Failure to attract, retain and develop Solutions business the power market reduces our ability to key personnel remain competitive Primary KPI impacted Primary KPI impacted Primary KPI impacted Capital activity Employee satisfaction Capital activity Customer activity Return on capital employed Customer activity Customer loyalty Revenue growth Earnings per share Earnings per share Background and impact Fleet size and composition Our people make the difference Operating pro t margin between great performance and Operating pro t margin Return on capital employed mediocre performance.
Return on capital employed Revenue growth The high quality technical capability Revenue growth and exemplary attitude of our people Background and impact is a competitive advantage which we North America is the largest region Background and impact wish to retain.
Oil & gas and Alternative and more distributed energy petrochemical & re ning have sources are becoming increasingly We are keenly aware of the need to traditionally been its largest market available and affordable.
attract the right people, establish sectors.
Any downturn in these sectors them in their roles and manage their New energy business models using could have a material impact on revenue development.
technology to manage the on and and pro t. off-grid environment are emerging.
Failure to do so could result in loss of Customer buying power has increased productivity and intellectual capital, These developments could affect our because of an increase in supply of increased recruitment costs and lower competitiveness as power providers.
eet in the market and increased staff morale.
As we develop our battery technology Prevention and mitigation offering, we continue to monitor further Our ability to differentiate our services Recruitment policy developments in this evolving area to from those of our competitors as ensure that we take advantage of Succession planning specialist energy and temperature opportunities and manage associated control providers is critical to us Talent management reviews risks as appropriate.
maintaining market share and and development plans pro tability.
Prevention and mitigation Feedback from staff surveys Diversi ed product portfolio Prevention and mitigation incorporated into strategic priorities Continued diversi cation into other Technology roadmap for existing Benchmarking of remuneration market sectors and alternative technologies and bene ts to attract and retain Mobile, modular, homogeneous Bolt-on acquisition of new the required talent equipment allows transfer between technologies and capabilities Long-term incentive plans markets Market requirements monitoring Performance management Improved sales capability, resourcing Changes during 2018 and performance management Changes during 2018 Following our acquisition of Younicos Attrition rates remained stable Market analysis in 2017, we have re ned our business compared to those in 2017.
While several to introduce a new technology and Delivery of our strategic priorities senior management positions were microgrid capability.
We have also to improve the ease with which recruited externally, we continue to seek utilised our new capabilities to develop customers can do business with us to promote from within where possible.
a new power storage product which We continue to advance our succession Changes during 2018 will be available for rental in 2019. planning programme to this end.
Despite ongoing competitive pressures, our Rental Solutions business had a Read more about the technology Read more about People on page 18 strong year, primarily driven by our developments taking place as part North American business.
We have seen of our strategic priorities on page 14 improvements in volumes, rates and eet utilisation across our business in addition to good growth in the majority of our key sectors.
Read more about Rental Solutions performance on page 24 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 RISK CONTINUED Strategic: Strategic: Operational: New technology Change management Cyber security market introduction Executive responsible Executive responsible Executive responsible Stephen Beynon, Managing Director Bruce Pool, President Rental Solutions Grant Nairn, Group Chief Information Power Solutions and Dan Ibbetson, Of cer Risk Managing Director Global Products & Failure to successfully transform the Risk Technology Rental Solutions business to match the A cyber security incident leads to a Risk needs of our customers loss of data, a loss of data integrity Ineffective new product development or disruption to operations Primary KPI impacted and market introduction hinders growth Primary KPI impacted Customer activity Primary KPI impacted Customer loyalty Customer loyalty Capital activity Earnings per share Earnings per share Customer activity Operating pro t margin Operating pro t margin Earnings per share Return on capital employed Return on capital employed Fleet size and composition Revenue growth Revenue growth Operating pro t margin Background and impact Return on capital employed Background and impact A cyber security incident may be caused We continue to develop our systems Revenue growth by an external attack, internal attack or and processes to make ourselves more user error.
Background and impact ef cient and easier to do business with.
New product development and Such an incident may lead to the loss of If we do not successfully execute these introduction is one of our priorities.
commercially sensitive data, a loss of in a timely and sustainable manner it data integrity within our systems or the New products introduced recently could result in a material impact on loss of financial assets through fraud.
include: engines with greater fuel future revenue and pro t. ef ciency e. g. Next Generation Gas A successful cyberattack on our backPrevention and mitigation NGG : alternative fuel technology e. g. of ce or operational control systems Heavy Fuel Oil HFO : and renewable Senior leadership focus and could also result in us not being able technology e. g. diesel solar hybrid.
sponsorship to deliver service to our customers.
As a result we could suffer reputational We continue to develop an enhanced Project management disciplines in damage, revenue loss and financial power storage solution based on the place to provide challenge, assurance penalties.
technology acquired with our Younicos and risk oversight acquisition.
Prevention and mitigation Adequate resourcing in place to Failure to develop and introduce deliver planned improvements A cyber security forum monitors new products may lead to product risk threats and directs actions Business user acceptance testing obsolescence and reduce revenue as appropriate and training and pro t. We have a suite of security Changes during 2018 Prevention and mitigation technologies in place, including We are in a critical period of antivirus and malware software, Market requirements monitoring implementation during which the rewalls, email scanning and internet likelihood of disruption to operations New product introduction process monitoring is highest.
identi es and resolves product Third-party expertise engaged to performance issues assist with incident response and Read more about the ef ciency Standard operating procedures security penetration testing developments taking place as part facilitate effective commissioning of our strategic priorities on page 16 IT user awareness policy and training and operation designed and rolled out across the Marketing strategies formulated for organisation new products Future system developments Technical training on all new incorporate encryption and security products delivered to our technicians at the design stage and engineers Changes during 2018 Training delivered to our sales teams We have continued to implement on the products, market opportunities improvements to our defences by and commercial risks associated with upskilling our people and improving new technology our security technologies.
That said, Regular monitoring of sales pipeline there has again been an increase in Changes during 2018 the number of rms suffering cyber We continue to see increased utilisation security breaches.
of our NGG and HFO products, while As a result of the general increase in the our hybrid solutions are attracting level of threat, we believe that this risk considerable interest.
score has increased since last year.
We Read more about the technology are investing further in this area in 2019 developments taking place as part to keep pace with the external threat.
of our strategic priorities on page 14 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 42 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Operational: Hazard: Hazard: Escalating sanctions Health and safety Security continued Executive responsible Executive responsible Stephen Beynon, Managing Director Some of our people work in high Chris Weston, Chief Executive Of cer Power Solutions risk locations.
Besides the security Risk considerations, issues facing these Risk A security incident occurs which affects employees include: poor road Escalating sanctions impact upon our our people, assets, or our operations infrastructure, a lack of access to ability to service existing customers healthcare services and exposure to Primary KPI impacted and win new work contagious diseases.
We also operate on Earnings per share Primary KPI impacted high risk customer sites such as offshore Employee satisfaction oil and wind platforms and mine sites.
Earnings per share Operating pro t margin Prevention and mitigation Operating pro t margin Senior leadership focus and Return on capital employed Return on capital employed engagement with regular HSE Revenue growth Revenue growth reporting Safety Background and impact Regular management safety walks We are comfortable that we have Background and impact Group HSE policy communicated appropriate procedures in place A security incident may adversely affect globally in all relevant languages to manage our compliance with the wellbeing of our people, the security sanctions regulations.
Appropriate training is delivered of our assets, our reputation or our ability to generate revenue.
There is the potential that any further Staff are empowered to stop work sanctions might impede our ability when they feel safety may be Prevention and mitigation to service current customers or win compromised Group security policy communicated new work.
globally in all relevant languages HSE risk assessments are undertaken Prevention and mitigation and comprehensive safety procedures Group Security team under the support our standard practices Monitoring the legal and regulatory direction of the Group Head of environment Security provides guidance and HSE compliance audits are conducted direction on appropriate security regularly and all staff are encouraged Mobile, modular, homogeneous requirements to report risks and incidents equipment allows transfer between markets if unutilised Monitoring of security environments Our equipment is subject to rigorous in countries where we operate testing prior to use and is maintained External support from legal counsel to a high standard as required Security compliance reviews completed periodically by the Where health matters are of concern, Changes during 2018 security team we implement stringent testing Sanctions have been extended in some procedures and restrict site access countries in which we operate.
Further Group-wide Travel Management extensions to sanctions could restrict our System, provides pre-travel guidance Comprehensive site induction ability to service existing customers and and allows monitoring of travellers materials are provided to all visitors win new work.
and staff deployed into a new country Head of Security provides monthly brie ngs to the Executive Committee Defensive driving training is provided Hazard: in high risk countries, with journey In some cases, insurance against management part of our HSE system losses has been procured Health and safety Changes during 2018 Changes during 2018 Our lost time accident frequency rate No material changes during 2018.
Executive responsible has continued to fall in 2018.
We continue to face speci c security Chris Weston, Chief Executive Of cer challenges in Afghanistan, Iraq, Safety has continued to be a key area of Risk Venezuela and Yemen.
Alongside the introduction A health and safety incident occurs policy and procedures have been of Stop Work Authority, work has which results in serious illness, injury embedded during the year and we have continued to deliver relevant training to or death launched an online incident reporting all staff.
In addition, we have launched tool.
Security audits will be completed Standard Zero, a revised framework for Primary KPI impacted going forward.
HSE governance, planning and risk Employee satisfaction management.
This will provide clarity on the roles and responsibilities we Safety each have to deliver our services safely.
Background and impact We aim to embed this within the Our business involves transporting, business during 2019. installing and operating equipment which is heavy, produces lethal voltages Read more about Health or very high pressure air and involves and safety on page 18 the use of millions of litres of fuel.
All of these could cause serious damage to our people and third parties if not handled with care.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 RISK CONTINUED Compliance: Financial: Failure to conduct business dealings Failure to collect with integrity and honesty payments or to recover assets Executive responsible Board-level leadership through our Executive responsible Peter Kennerley, Group Legal Director Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Heath Drewett, Chief Financial Of cer & Company Secretary Committee which oversees the Risk compliance policies and procedures Risk Signi cant customer payment default and aims to foster a culture of We are prosecuted as a result of an or impounding of assets integrity and honesty in all of our employee or person acting on our business dealings Primary KPI impacted behalf having made a payment which is, or is perceived to be, a bribe Earnings per share Ethics Policy in place with which employees, agents and sales Primary KPI impacted Operating pro t margin consultants are required to comply Customer loyalty Return on capital employed Training of employees and third-party Employee satisfaction Background and impact sales consultants on anti-bribery and The Group has some large contracts corruption policies and procedures Revenue growth in emerging market countries Due diligence undertaken on sales Background and impact where payment processes can be consultants and agents.
Once The scale and global nature of our unpredictable, where liquidity has been appointed we regularly monitor their business exposes us to risks of adversely affected by a fall in commodity performance, audit payments and unethical behaviour.
prices or our customers have competing refresh due diligence at least every demands on limited budgets.
This risk is particularly relevant owing to two years the following factors: There is a risk that we do not obtain Head of Compliance and Internal payment for a large project or We operate in several countries with Audit monitor compliance with combination of projects and or that a perceived high levels of corruption policy requirements in this area material value of assets are con scated.
We participate in tenders for high An independent whistle-blowing We take a rigorous approach to credit value contracts involving public system is in place which allows risk management and to date have not procurement employees to report concerns suffered a signi cant loss.
All Our business model involves the use A customers non-payment would result reports received are fully investigated of third-party sales consultants agents in an increased bad debt provision or in some countries where we do not All high risk suppliers are now required write-off of the debt.
Should our assets have a permanent presence to acknowledge and comply with our be seized, we would also lose future supplier code of conduct We are aware of the potential revenue and pro t associated with that reputational and financial impact of equipment while having to write off its Changes during 2018 such behaviour and we have in place residual value.
During 2018, we have further improved a robust compliance programme to our compliance framework.
We Prevention and mitigation mitigate our exposure to this risk.
have implemented more stringent Regular monitoring of the risk pro le requirements of our higher risk suppliers Prevention and mitigation and debtor position for large contracts and have re ned our risk assessment Anti-bribery and corruption Mitigation techniques will vary from process.
We will continue to identify framework designed in line with customer to customer, but include further opportunities for improvement.
UK government guidance and obtaining advance payments, letters implemented across the Group of credit, and in some cases insurance Read more about our Ethics Policy against losses and anti-bribery and corruption framework on page 37 Active customer relationship management, including escalation to senior management The scale of our business and diversity of our customer portfolio make it less likely that any unprovided bad debt or equipment seizure would be material to the Groups balance sheet Changes during 2018 While we have not suffered a signi cant loss in 2018, we continue to closely monitor overdue debt in Power Solutions Utility.
We continue to believe that the primary reason for delay in payments is liquidity and access to foreign currency, rather than customer disputes.
Read more about Power Solutions performance on page 25 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 44 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Brexit The depreciation of Sterling after the UK We currently bene t from reduced With the above as background, the voted to leave the EU in June 2016 was withholding taxes on dividends Board approached the viability the most signi cant impact of the vote between EU companies under the assessment as follows: on the Group.
In that year it increased EU Parent Subsidiary directive.
The It carried out the viability assessment the Sterling value of our revenue, debt Directive would not apply after the over a three-year period to 2021. and borrowing facilities, the majority of UKs exit from the EU and we would Although the Board considers which are denominated in US Dollars.
fall back to the provisions of the UKs prospects of the Group over a double tax treaties with EU member At this point, we do not know whether longer period, three years was states, although it is anticipated that the UK will leave the EU with deemed appropriate for the these treaties will all need to be a deal, without a deal or whether the viability assessment because: renegotiated.
decision to leave will be revoked.
We The Groups funding requirement have completed an impact analysis to try The Group earns approximately 6% of can be forecast with suf cient to identify the aspects of our business its revenue from the UK and 10% from accuracy over this period that might be affected most by the EU markets.
Demand for our services UKs withdrawal from the EU.
We do in these markets is, in part, GDPThe Board expects to be able to not expect the impact on the Groups dependent.
A signi cant change in the arrange suf cient finance to meet business activities to be severe because GDP growth in these markets is likely to its funding requirement over a the large majority of them take place have a knock-on effect on our level of three-year period outside the UK and the EU.
Power Solutions Utilitys historical we have taken some actions and About 60 of our employees are likely to off-hire rate of 30% suggests an developed contingency plans to reduce be affected by Brexit.
We will encourage average contract life of three years.
the potential impact on the Group of the eligible employees to take advantage of Rental Solutions and Power UK leaving the EU without a deal at the the UKs EU Settlement Scheme and the Solutions Industrial have shorter end of March 2019. anticipated reciprocal arrangements for average hire periods than Power Delays in our supply chain and in the UK nationals working in the EU.
We will Solutions Utility export of nished products, changes to provide support to these employees It stress-tested the Groups strategic customs duties on the movement of as required.
plan to 2021 by modelling scenarios equipment, changes to tax legislation We will continue to monitor the situation linked to each principal risk and the associated system changes have closely and re ne our contingency plans the potential to affect our business the It stress-tested the Groups strategic as the situation develops.
most, on top of the impact of changes plan to 2021 by modelling scenarios in the value of Sterling and GDP growth of combinations of principal risks, Assessment of prospects in our UK and EU markets.
for example: and viability We expect that any delays in the We considered a scenario in which The prospects for our Rental Solutions supply of products or services that all risks occurred according to their business are linked to growth in local we need for our business in the UK expected frequencies during the economies and commodity cycles.
or delays to freight out of the UK will viability period be manageable through production Our Power Solutions Industrial business We considered a combination of all scheduling or by using alternative is driven by growth in developing risks crystallising at the same time material suppliers.
We do not expect markets, which can be commodity delays to disrupt our ability to supply The results of this stress-testing showed dependent, while Power Solutions Utility our customers after withdrawal.
that the Group has suf cient scale, is driven by shortfalls in permanent diversity and balance sheet strength capacity caused by economic growth, We expect that there will be an impact to withstand the impact of these ageing power infrastructure, hydroon the import of materials for use in scenarios by making adjustments to shortages and social pressures.
our Manufacturing & Technology its operating plans within the normal centre in Dumbarton and on the The Executive Committee and the course of business.
export of nished products from Board regularly discuss factors that Dumbarton.
The overall impact is Based on the results of this analysis, the might affect Aggrekos prospects.
likely to be negative but will not Directors have a reasonable expectation The 13 principal risks, which the Board materially affect our ability to serve that the Group will be able to continue concluded could affect business our customers.
There is a possibility in operation and meet its liabilities as performance, are set out on the that new agreements between the they fall due over the three-year period previous pages.
UK and non-EU countries could bring of their detailed assessment.
The impact on customs duties will depend on the arrangements for withdrawal and any new trade agreements that the UK enters into, but the increase in our customs duties would not be material on its own should we revert to World Trade Organisation terms.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45
