Risk Management Identifying, evaluating and managing risk Risk management approach The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness, supported by the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
A risk management framework is in place which sets out the ongoing processes for the identification, assessment and management of risks, and for their ongoing monitoring and review.
The Board has defined its risk appetite in a number of key areas for the business this sets out the relative level of risk that the Group is prepared to seek or accept in the pursuit of its strategic objectives.
The aim is to ensure that the risks taken by the Group fall within its defined risk appetite.
Effective risk management is essential to enable us to achieve our operational and strategic objectives and deliver long-term value creation.
During the reporting period we have continued to focus on embedding a culture of risk management throughout the organisation which will contribute towards the successful execution of the Groups strategy.
Robust risk assessment The risk management framework sets out a systematic approach to risk management which is designed to identify risks to the business, regardless of source.
Once identified, risks are assessed according to the likelihood and impact of the risk occurring and an appropriate risk response is determined in line with the Groups risk appetite.
Risks are re-assessed based on the strength of the mitigating controls implemented.
The implementation of risk mitigation plans is subject to ongoing monitoring and review.
A risk scoring matrix is used to ensure that a consistent approach is taken across the business at both a corporate and functional level.
This risk assessment and review process is documented in the appropriate risk register.
Risks are constantly reviewed on an ongoing basis: the Groups risk register is formally reviewed by the Risk Committee quarterly and by the Board and the Audit Committee twice each year.
Risk control assurance Internal audit work is undertaken by an independent organisation which develops an annual internal audit plan having reviewed the Groups risk register and following discussions with the external auditors, management and members of the Audit Committee.
During the year the Audit Committee has reviewed reports covering the internal audit work.
This has included assessment of the general control environment, identification of any control weaknesses and quantification of any associated risk, together with a review of the status of mitigating actions.
The Audit Committee has also received reports from management in relation to specific risk items, together with reports from the external auditors, who consider controls to the extent necessary to form an opinion as to the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
The Groups internal control and risk management systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The report of the Audit Committee can be found on page 45.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has carried out a robust, systematic assessment of the principal risks facing the Group during the period, including those which would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The table opposite sets out the Groups principal risks as determined by the Board, the gross risk movement from the prior year and examples of corresponding controls and mitigating actions.
This represents the Groups current risk profile and is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all risks and uncertainties that may arise.
34 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts The UKs decision to leave the European Union created a volatile and uncertain economic environment which has continued over the past twelve months.
Like many other businesses, we are closely following developments in this area.
We have created a working group to monitor the potential impact of Brexit on the Group and to take appropriate actions, overseen by the Risk Committee.
We believe that it is still too early to quantify or determine with any certainty the impact of Brexit on the Group.
However, given that the Group is a UK-based group whose sales are predominantly made in the UK, our current assessment is that Brexit will not have a significant impact on the Group, other than through its effect on foreign exchange rates to which it is exposed through the purchase of certain commodities.
The effect of Brexit on the free movement of people and the possible introduction of trade tariffs may also impact the Group, however we do not expect this impact to be significant.
We will continue to monitor developments and adapt our strategy as the impact of Brexit becomes clear.
The gross risk movement from the prior year for each principal risk is presented as follows: Movement No change Increased Decreased New risk Principal risks and uncertainties Risks relating to the Group Risk Impact Controls and mitigating actions Movement Consumers may decide The Group offers a broad range of branded products across a range Changes in to purchase and consume of flavours, subcategories and markets which offer choice to the consumer alternative brands or spend end consumer.
preferences, less on soft drinks.
perception Changing consumer attitudes and behaviours are monitored or purchasing on an ongoing basis and inform our brand plans and new behaviour product development.
Through increased focus and investment in both reformulation and innovation across the year we have adapted our portfolio to align with these changing consumer needs.
Consumer rejection Consumers may decide We announced on 1 February 2018 that, following an extension of our of reformulated to purchase and consume innovation and reformulation programme, we expect that up to 99% NR products alternative brands or of our soft drinks portfolio by volume will contain less than 5g of total spend less on soft drinks.
sugars per 100ml before the implementation of the Soft Drinks Industry Levy in April 2018.
Hence the nature of the principal risk disclosed last year Changing consumer attitudes towards sugar further government intervention on sugar has changed to become one of the risk of consumer rejection of our reformulated products.
The risk of further government intervention on sugar remains, however we do not currently consider this to be a principal risk.
We conducted an extensive research and testing programme in the years prior to the launch of our reformulated products to ensure that we have an excellent taste match for each reformulated product.
Loss of product A loss of product integrity Appropriate risk assessments are carried out on a regular basis and integrity in the manufacturing supply robust quality controls and processes are in place to maintain the high chain could lead to a product quality of our products.
Product recall procedures are tested regularly.
Loss of continuity The loss of continuity of There is a robust supplier selection process in place.
Supplier of supply of major supply of major raw material performance is monitored on an ongoing basis and audits are raw materials ingredients and or packaging undertaken for major suppliers.
Multiple sources of supply are sourced materials could impact wherever possible.
During the year a second supplier of carbon dioxide our ability to manufacture, was appointed and additional carbon dioxide tanks were placed at with an adverse impact Milton Keynes and Bellshill.
on the Groups sales and Commodity risks are managed by the procurement team and reviewed operating profits.
by the Treasury and Commodity Committee.
Contingency measures are in place and are tested regularly.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Risk Management continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks relating to the Group continued Risk Impact Controls and mitigating actions Movement Adverse publicity in relation Our risk management process is designed to identify and monitor Adverse publicity in to the soft drinks industry, events that may impact the Group as a result of adverse publicity relation to the soft the Group or its brands could and to ensure that controls are in place to manage these risks.
drinks industry, the have an adverse impact Group or its brands Processes are in place to ensure compliance with health and safety on the Groups reputation, legislation and ethical working standards and these are regularly consumer consumption reviewed by the Board and Management Committee.
Quality standards patterns, sales and are well defined, implemented and monitored.
Responsibility Committee is in place, with a clearly defined and communicated Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
The Group maintains and develops ISO 9001 and 14001 systems and BRC standards which are subject to annual external audits, with any non-conformances addressed in a timely manner.
Nutritional information is shown on all of our products and we have signed up to the UK Governments voluntary front-of-pack nutritional labelling scheme.
During the year there has been an increased level of environmental lobbying in relation to packaging waste, particularly single use plastic bottles.
We are working constructively with the British Soft Drinks Industry, the UK and Scottish governments, and other key stakeholders in relation to potential interventions, such as the planned introduction of a Deposit Return Scheme DRS in Scotland or the possible introduction of a single use plastics tax.
Failure to maintain The Group offers a broad range of brands that it manufactures Failure to appropriate customer and distributes through a variety of trade channels and customers.
maintain customer relationships or a reduction Performance is monitored closely by the Board and Management relationships or in the customer base could Committee by trade channel and customer as appropriate.
This includes take account of have an adverse impact monitoring of metrics which review brand equity strength, financial and changing market on the Groups sales and operational performance.
The Group focuses on delivering high quality products and invests heavily in building brand equity.
We work closely in partnership with our customers on an ongoing basis.
Members of the senior management team meet with key customers throughout the year.
The recent consolidation in the retail grocery market on the Group has increased the level of gross risk in this area.
During the year a project was undertaken to determine the potential impact of this consolidation in the retail grocery market on the Group and to take appropriate actions: this will be a continued area of focus over the following year.
Inability to protect Failure to protect the Groups The Group invests considerable effort in proactively protecting its the Groups intellectual property rights intellectual property rights, for example through trademark and design intellectual could result in a loss of registrations and vigorous legal enforcement as and when required.
A catastrophic failure of the Assets within the Group are proactively managed and maintained.
Failure of the Groups major production Risk assessments are carried out on a regular basis and appropriate Groups operational or distribution facilities could actions taken.
Robust business continuity plans are in place and are infrastructure lead to a sustained loss in regularly tested.
Failure of critical A failure of critical IT systems IT assets within the Group are proactively managed and procedures IT systems could result in a loss exist that support rapid and clean recovery.
Robust business continuity of key systems, business plans and contingency measures are in place and are regularly tested.
interruption, lost sales During the year an employee cyber training programme was or lost production.
implemented to increase employee cyber risk awareness.
36 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Risk Impact Controls and mitigating actions Movement The Groups activities expose Our underlying objective is to secure budgeted exchange rates and Financial risks it to a variety of financial risks thereby reduce the volatility through our cost of goods.
Financial risks which include market risk are reviewed and managed by the Treasury and Commodity Committee, including medium term which seeks to minimise adverse effects on the Groups financial movements in exchange performance through hedging known currency exposures throughout rates, interest rate risk the year.
Brexit is expected to continue to affect foreign exchange and commodity price risk, rates to which the Group is exposed through the purchase of credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups finance team reviews cash flow forecasts throughout the year, with headroom against banking covenants assessed regularly.
The finance team uses external tools to assess credit limits offered to customers, manages trade receivable balances vigilantly and takes prompt action on overdue accounts.
The Groups financial control environment is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
Internal audits focus is to work with and challenge management to ensure an appropriate control environment is maintained.
Third party Termination of existing We have robust strong relationships with our various partners and relationships partnerships or renewal proactively manage the effective building of our partners brands.
NR on less favourable terms This risk has been introduced as a new principal risk this year, given the could result in lost brand increasing scale of our partnership arrangements and their importance contribution and underto the delivery of our strategy, particularly in light of our new recent recovery of supply chain partnerships with San Benedetto and Bundaberg.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a three year period to January 2021, taking account of the Groups current financial and market position, future prospects and the Groups principal risks, as detailed in the Strategic Report.
The directors have determined that a three year period is an appropriate timeframe for the assessment given the dynamic nature of the FMCG sector and this is in line with the Groups strategic planning period.
The starting point for the viability assessment is the strategic and financial plan, which makes assumptions relating to the economic climate, market growth, input cost inflation and growth from the Companys value drivers.
The prospects of the Group have been taken into account, including the size of the current market, the strength of the Groups brands and recent investment in production capability.
This model was then subject to a series of theoretical stress test scenarios based on the materialisation of principal risks that included both the impact of severe but plausible scenarios for each principal risk and also scenarios that considered the impact should these principal risks occur at the same time.
Some of the scenarios considered included a significant and sustained change in consumer preferences and the impact of a breakdown in the supply chain resulting in a disruption to supply.
The assessment performed indicates that in certain extreme scenarios, there would be a need to extend the credit facilities, due to reduce in 2020, back to current levels.
Given the Groups current net debt EBITDA ratio and that forecast under these scenarios, the directors are confident this would be obtained.
The results of these tests were reviewed taking account of the Groups current position, the Groups experience of managing adverse conditions in the past and the mitigating actions available to the business.
A reverse stress test was also performed, allowing the Board to assess scenarios and circumstances that would render its business model unviable and enabling the identification of potential business vulnerabilities and the development of appropriate mitigating actions.
Based on this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to January 2021.
A. Barr Company Secretary 27 March 2018 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37
