RISK MANAGEMENT INTRODUCTION The Audit and Risk Committee comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors other Each one of our suite of measures has both than the Chairman, with delegated responsibility from the Board to provide oversight a limit and an early warning indicator EWI.
and challenge to the appropriateness of the actions being taken to mitigate the The limit is aligned to our risk appetite and risks impacting on the Trust.
Alliance Trust Savings operates its own risk framework should not be breached.
The EWI that is set independently of the Trust but does report to the Trusts Audit and Risk Committee for each measure is designed to alert the and Board in respect of risks within that business which may impact on the Trust.
Committee should there be an increased risk of breaching a limit.
At the end of The Committee receives and considers regular reports from its Executive the year we had one measure which had function, WTW and representatives from Alliance Trust Savings.
breached its EWI but no limit breaches.
The strategic objectives of the Trust are to have a clear investment mandate to improve investment performance, continuation of its policy of paying a progressive dividend, managing the discount, providing good value and continuing to simplify the Trusts structure.
The Board agrees a series of Risk Appetite statements which set out the level of risk that the Board is prepared to accept to achieve its strategy and monitors against a suite of measures whether these are achieved and, where it considers it appropriate to do so, takes action to bring the risk back to a tolerable limit.
PRINCIPAL RISKS We set out below the principal risks impacting on the Trust and its ability to meet its strategic objectives, as well as mitigating actions, and show any change in the year.
The principal risks remained unchanged at the year end from those reported in last years Annual Report.
Risks Description Mitigating actions Market and Prudential - Static Investment Risk Investment performance fails to The Investment strategy and the deliver sufficient capital growth.
performance of the underlying managers Unchanged in the year under review are regularly reviewed.
The process to sell most of the private equity investment has been completed and the sale of the mineral rights is being progressed, with the completion of the sale of Alliance Trust Savings additional funds will be released for equity investment.
Credit and Counterparty Risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty The Trust contracts only with to a financial instrument will fail to creditworthy counterparties.
Its main Unchanged in the year under review discharge an obligation or commitment transactions relating to investments that it has entered into with the Trust are carried out with well-established Group.
brokers on a cash against receipt or cash against delivery basis.
Financial and Prudential Reporting Level of capital held to cover the Group The Board regularly reviews its capital risks is not sufficient.
The Trust is a bank structure and gearing may not exceed Unchanged in the year under review holding company Alliance Trust Savings 30% of the net assets of the Trust.
has a banking licence and is regulated Stress and scenario testing is carried by the Prudential Regulation Authority out on the portfolio and reported PRA and therefore requires to hold a to the Committee by WTW.
A risk minimum amount of regulatory capital.
assessment is undertaken as part of the consolidated Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP that is carried out at least annually.
| 32 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I STRATEGIC REPORT II III IV Risks Description Mitigating actions Market and Prudential - Static continued Liquidity Risk The Trust does not have sufficient liquid The level of equity investment has resources to ensure that it can meet increased to 97.4% at 31 December Reduced in the year under review its liabilities as they fall due and the 2018 from 90.7% at the end of 2017 movement in the fair value of the assets partly due to the sale of private equity of the Trust is amplified by any gearing and other non-core investments.
Agreement has been reached to sell Alliance Trust Savings subject to regulatory approval.
Equities are more liquid than the non-core investments.
A liquidity assessment is undertaken as part of the consolidated Group Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP that is carried out at least annually.
Operational - Decreasing Cyber-attack Failure to ensure that business is The Trust benefits from the level of IT adequately protected against the security put in place by its IT service Unchanged in the year under review threat of cyber-attack, which may lead provider, Alliance Trust Savings.
This to significant business disruption or includes having in place security external fraud.
designed to protect systems from cyber-attack and a programme of training for staff on privacy related risks and data security.
Business continuity plans are in place should a cyber-attack occur.
A replacement IT service provider has been identified to service the needs of the Trust once the sale of Alliance Trust Savings has been completed.
Outsourcing Loss arising from inadequate or failed WTW monitors and reports on the processes, people and or systems of performance of outsourced providers Reduced in the year under review outsourced functions.
to the Board which also receives control reports from certain service providers.
WTW itself is monitored by the Board and the Executive function, and NatWest who also monitors the custodian.
The outsourced providers, having been in place for over a year, have greater experience and understanding of the Trust.
Corporate Governance - Static Corporate Governance The risk of not meeting and being in The Board conducts an annual internal compliance with legal and regulatory review on it and its Committees Unchanged in the year under review responsibilities.
An external review is carried out at least every three years and the last such review was in December 2018.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 33 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risks Description Mitigating actions Investment Trust Status - Static Investment Trust status The risk of not complying with Sections WTW reviews and monitors the Trusts 1158-59 of the Corporation Tax Act and Investment Trust status and reports on Unchanged in the year under review losing Investment Trust status.
this regularly to the Board.
Strategy - Static Performance impacted by Stock market action involving the The Trust now has a stable shareholder external factors Trust results in uncertainty around base and continues to take action the business model and impacts on through its share buyback programme Unchanged in the year under review performance current and future.
to support the management of the discount at which the Trusts shares trade.
A Communications and Marketing Manager has been appointed which has increased the level of engagement with shareholders.
Reputational - Static Reputational Damage to the Trusts reputation that Due diligence process is in place for could lead to negative publicity and selecting third party providers.
These Unchanged in the year under review adverse impact on financial performance.
providers are regularly monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee or Board.
Environmental, social and governance ESG factors and technological change - New Environmental, social and governance Failure to consider the impact of ESG WTWs approach to ESG and ESG factors and technological change.
and technological factors adversely technological change is fully embedded affecting the Trusts reputation and within WTWs overall assessment of financial performance.
It considers each managers stewardship credentials, and integration of ESG and technological factors into the portfolio management process.
Regulatory non-compliance - Decreasing Regulatory non-compliance Failure to ensure that systems and controls The Board receives updates from are adequate to allow compliance with WTW and the Executive function on Reduced in the year under review all relevant regulatory requirements.
The outsourced arrangements have been in place since April 2017 and the providers have a better understanding of the activities of the Trust and its regulatory obligations.
| 34 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018
