STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY Anglo American recognises that risk is inherent Anglo Americans assessment of strategic, in all its business activities.
Our risks can have operational, project and sustainable development related risks a financial, operational or reputational impact.
Volatility in commodity markets provides a good illustration of risk inherent in our business.
4 1 As understanding our risks and developing appropriate responses are critical to our future success, we are committed to an effective, robust system of risk identification, and an effective response to such risks, in order to 3 2 support the achievement of our objectives.
Identifying risks HOW DOES RISK RELATE TO OUR STRATEGY?
A robust methodology is used to identify key risks across the Group at business units, operations and projects.
Risks can arise from events outside of our control or from This is being applied consistently through ongoing operational matters.
Each of the risks described on the implementation of a Group integrated risk management following pages can have an impact on our ability to deliver framework and associated guidelines.
Analysing risks and controls to manage For more on the Groups strategy Chairman See page 10 Audit Committee identified risks Once identified, the process will evaluate identified risks to establish root causes, financial and non-financial impacts, VIABILITY STATEMENT and likelihood of occurrence.
Consideration of risk treatments is taken into account to enable the creation of Context a prioritised register and in determining which of the risks An understanding of our business model and strategy is should be considered as a principal risk.
key to the assessment of our prospects.
Determining management actions required Secure, develop and operate a portfolio of high quality and The effectiveness and adequacy of controls are assessed.
long life assets that deliver sustainable shareholder returns If additional controls are required, these will be identified Implement an innovation-led approach to sustainable and responsibilities assigned.
Identification of controls mining from exploration to delivering products to customers associated with key risks is an important input into assurance planning.
Create an inclusive and diverse working environment to encourage and support a high performance culture and 4.
Reporting and monitoring innovative thinking.
Management is responsible for monitoring progress of actions to mitigate key risks and to determine if any such risk Details of our business model and strategy are provided on falls outside the limits of our risk appetite.
In doing so, it is pages 8-10. supported through the Groups internal audit programme, which evaluates the design and effectiveness of controls.
Prices for the majority of our products fared wellin 2018, as The risk management process is continuous: key risks are the world economy continued its recovery and provided a reported to the Audit Committee, with sustainability risks basis for a more positive outlook.
However, the sustainability also being reported to the Sustainability Committee.
of product prices remains uncertain, with some downside risk.
Supply may either struggle to match demand growth or demand reduction, generating ongoing product price The assessment process and key assumptions volatility.
Against that background, the Board maintains a Assessment of the Groups prospects is based upon the low appetite for risk in major new projects and investments Groups strategy, its financial plan and principal risks.
unless they are world class orebodies with competitive cost positions and long reserve lives.
Large greenfield projects The Groups focus during 2018 has been to drive efficiencies are likely to be syndicated with other investors to reduce our through the operations and upgrade the quality of our risk profile andcapital requirements.
portfolio in order to improve cash flow generation, strengthen the balance sheet and create sustainable value through disciplined allocation of capital.
42 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report A financial forecast covering the next three years is prepared , changing social expectations, based on the context of the strategic plan and is reviewed on infrastructure and human resources.
These risks are a regular basis to reflect changes in circumstances.
The subjectto our normal procedures to identify, implement financial forecast is based on a number of key assumptions, andoversee appropriate mitigation actions, supported the most important of which include product prices, byinternal audit work to provide assurance over the status exchange rates, estimates of production, production costs ofcontrols or mitigating actions.
These principal risks are and future capital expenditure.
In addition, the forecast does considered over the next three years as a minimum, but not assume the renewal of existing debt or the raising of new werecognise that many of them will be relevant for a debt.
A key component of the financial forecast and strategic longerperiod.
plan is the life of mine plans created for each operation, For more on principal risks See pages 44-47 providing expected annual production volumes over the anticipated economic life ofmine.
CATASTROPHIC RISKS The principal risks are those that we believe could prevent the Group from delivering its strategic objectives.
We also face certain risks that we deem catastrophic risks.
A number of these risks are deemed catastrophic to the These are very high severity, very low likelihood events that Groups prospects and have been considered as part of could result in multiple fatalities or injuries, an unplanned the Groups viability.
fundamental change to strategy or the way we operate and have significant financial consequences.
We do not consider Assessment of viability likelihood when assessing these risks, as the potential The assessment of viability has been made with reference impacts mean these risks must be treated as a priority.
to the Groups current position and expected performance Catastrophic risks are included as principal risks.
over a three-year period, using budgeted product prices For more on catastrophic risks and expected foreign exchange rates.
See page 44 Financial performance and cash flows have then been subjected to stress and sensitivity analysis over the RISK APPETITE three-year period using a range of severe, but plausible scenarios.
The scenarios tested include: We define risk appetite as the nature and extent of risk Anglo American is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit Product price reductions of up to 20% from of its objectives.
We look at risk appetite from the context of budget prices over three years, with no offsetting severity of the consequences should the risk materialise, foreign exchange rate improvement any relevant internal or external factors influencing the risk, Operational incidents that have a significant impact and the status of management actions to mitigate or control on production at key sites in the Group the risk.
A scale is used to help determine the limit of appetite for each risk, recognising that risk appetite will Technology developments affecting demand for diamonds change over time.
Technology developments in the automobile industry If a risk exceeds appetite, it will threaten the achievement of affecting demand for PGMs objectives and may require a change to strategy.
Risks that Failure to achieve targeted operational performance are approaching the limit of the Groups risk appetite may improvements.
require management actions to be accelerated or enhanced to ensure the risks remain within appetite levels.
The Groups liquidity defined as cash and undrawn committed facilities was $13.9 billion at 31 December 2018.
For catastrophic and operational risks, our risk appetite This is sufficient to absorb the financial impact of each of the for exceptions or deficiencies in the status of our controls risks modelled in the stress and sensitivity analysis.
If these that have safety implications is very low.
Our internal audit scenarios were to materialise, the Group also has a range of programme evaluates these controls with technical additional options that enable us to maintain our financial experts at operations and the results of that audit work strength, including reduction in capital expenditure, the sale will determine the risk appetite evaluation, along with of assets, raising debt or reducing the dividend.
the management response to any issues identified.
Further details on the risk management and internal control systems Viability statement and the review of their effectiveness are provided on pages 97-98 The directors confirm they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and meet its SUMMARY liabilities as they fall due for the next three years.
This period has been selected for the following reasons: Our risk profile changed during 2018: as the external environment has evolved, progress has been made in the The Groups strategy and budgeting process are aligned mitigation of our risks and we have updated our risk profile to with a three-year view include new principal risks based on a revised assessment.
The volatility in commodity markets in recent years We no longer consider Competitive position as a principal makes confidence in a longer assessment of prospects risk, given the improved balance sheet.
Investor activism is highly challenging.
no longer considered a principal risk, although we recognise it is a potential outcome of other risks, should they materialise.
Water security is now considered a principal PRINCIPAL RISKS risk: we have also updated definitions and prioritisation of We define a principal risk as a risk or combination of some of our principal risks to reflect the changing external risks that would threaten the business model, future environment or progress with risk mitigation.
Our performance, solvency or liquidity of Anglo American.
catastrophic risks are the highest priority risks, given the In addition to these principal risks, we continue to be potential consequences.
exposed to other risks related to currency, inflation, community relations, environment, litigation and Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 43 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY PRINCIPAL RISKS 1.
CATASTROPHIC RISKS Pillars of value: No change in risk We are exposed to the following risks we Impact: Multiple fatalities and injuries, damage Risk appetite: Tailings dam deem as potentially catastrophic: tailings to assets, environmental damage, production failure and slope and underground dam failure: slope wall failure: mineshaft loss, reputational damage and loss of licence excavation failure risks are operating failure: and fire and explosion.
Financial costs associated with within the limits of our appetite.
Fire recovery and liability claims may be significant.
and explosion and mineshaft failure Root cause: Any of these risks may result Regulatory issues may result and community risks are currently operating outside from inadequate design or construction, relations may be affected.
of our risk appetite, but actions being adverse geological conditions, shortcomings taken are expected to bring these in operational performance, natural events Mitigation: Technical standards exist that risks back within our risk appetite such as seismic activity or flooding, and failure provide minimum criteria for design and during 2019. of structures or machinery and equipment.
operational performance requirements, implementation of which is regularly inspected Commentary: These very high by technical experts.
Additional assurance work impact but very low frequency risks is conducted to assess the adequacy of controls are treated with the highest priority.
POLITICAL AND REGULATORY Pillars of value: Uncertainty and adverse changes to Impact: Uncertainty over future business Risk appetite: Operating within mining industry regulation, legislation conditions leads to a lack of confidence in the limits of our appetite.
or tax rates can occur in any country in making investment decisions, which can Commentary: Global economic which we operate.
conditions can have a significant Increased costs can be incurred through Root cause: The Group has no control impact on countries whose additional regulations or resource taxes, while over political acts, actions of regulators, or economies are exposed to the ability to execute strategic initiatives that changes in local tax rates.
Our licence to commodities, placing greater reduce costs or divest assets may also be operate through mining rights is dependent pressure on governments to restricted, all of which may reduce profitability on a number of factors, including compliance findalternative means of raising and affect future performance.
revenues, and increasing the risk instability can also result in civil unrest and of social and labour unrest.
These nullification or non-renewal of existing factors could increase the political agreements, mining permits, sales agreements risks faced by the Group.
These may adversely affect the Groups operations or performance of those operations.
Mitigation: Anglo American has an active engagement strategy with governments, regulators and other stakeholders within the countries in which we operate, or plan to operate, as well as at an international level.
We assess portfolio capital investments against political risks and avoid or minimise exposure to jurisdictions with unacceptable risk levels.
We actively monitor regulatory and political developments at a national level, as well as global themes and international policy trends, on a continuous basis.
See page 16 for more detail on how we engage with our key stakeholders.
PILLARS OF VALUE: Safety and health Production Environment Cost Socio-political Financial People 44 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report 3.
SAFETY Pillars of value: No change in risk Failure to eliminate fatalities.
Impact: Loss of life, workplace injuries and Risk appetite: Operating within safety-related stoppages all immediately affect the limits of our appetite.
Root cause: Inability to eliminate fatalities production, while, over the longer term, such will result from management interventions Commentary: During 2018, there factors are also a threat to our licence to operate.
and training initiatives failing to translate were five fatalities in our managed into behavioural change by all employees Mitigation: All operations continue to implement operations, compared with and contractors.
Non-compliance with safety improvement plans, with a focus on: nine in 2017.
This is still an critical controls is a common failure in effective management of critical controls required unacceptable level.
to manage significant safety risks: learning from remains committed to eliminating high potential incidents and hazards: embedding fatalities and the risk definition has a safety culture: and leadership engagement been updated to focus on this.
An elimination of fatalities taskforce is assessing safety risks at all operations to establish further actions necessary to improve safety performance.
PRODUCT PRICES Pillars of value: This risk has decreased since 2017 Global macro-economic conditions Impact: Low product prices can result in Risk appetite: Operating within leading to sustained low product prices lower levels of cash flow, profitability and the limits of our appetite.
Debt costs may rise owing to ratings Commentary: We believe the risk agency downgrades and the possibility of Root cause: The most significant factors of an economic shock in China has restricted access to funding.
The Group may be contributing to this risk at present are a reduced, with a measured slowdown unable to complete any divestment programme continued slowdown in growth in China and being the more likely scenario.
More within the desired timescales or achieve other emerging markets, low growth rates in broadly, global economic activity has expected values.
The capacity to invest in developed economies and an oversupply of improved slightly, although downside growth projects is constrained during periods commodities into the market.
of low product prices which may, in turn, such as weak regional economies, fiscal crises affect future performance.
and conflict can also influence the economic environment and contribute to weak Mitigation: The successful delivery of cash product prices.
improvement and operational performance targets remains the key mitigation strategy for this risk.
Regular updates of economic analysis and product price assumptions are discussed with executive management and the Board.
CORRUPTION Pillars of value: No change in risk Bribery or other forms of corruption Impact: Potential criminal investigations, Risk appetite: Operating within committed by an employee or agent adverse media attention and reputational the limits of our appetite.
A possible negative impact on Commentary: During 2018, we licensing processes and valuation.
Root cause: Anglo American has operations commissioned a report from an in some countries where there is a relatively Mitigation: A comprehensive anti-bribery and external law firm to review the high risk of corruption.
corruption policy and programme, including risk Groups policy and programme to assessment, training and awareness, with active manage bribery risk.
The review monitoring, is in place.
made recommendations to further strengthen our anti-bribery programme which we have shared with the Audit Committee and are in the process of implementing.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 45 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY No change in risk 6.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Pillars of value: Unplanned operational stoppages Impact: Inability to achieve production, cash Risk appetite: Operating within impacting production.
There are potential the limits of our appetite.
safety-related matters associated with Root cause: Unplanned and unexpected Commentary: During 2018, this unplanned operational stoppages, along with operational issues will affect delivery of risk materialised in our Minas-Rio a loss of investor confidence.
Failure to operation see page 64. implement the Operating Model, manage Mitigation: Implementation of our Operating cost inflation or maintain critical plant, Model, supported by operational risk machinery and infrastructure will affect our management and assurance processes, are performance levels.
We are also exposed to the key mitigations against this risk.
Compliance failure of third party-owned andoperated with our technical standards will prevent infrastructure, e. g. rail networks and ports.
Regular Our operations may also be exposed to tracking and monitoring of progress against natural catastrophes or extreme weather.
the underlying EBITDA targets is undertaken.
WATER Pillars of value: A new principal risk Inability to obtain or sustain the level Impact: Loss of production and inability to Risk appetite: Operating within of water security needed to support achieve cash flow or volume improvement the limits of our appetite.
operations over the current life of targets.
Damage to stakeholder relationships Commentary: This is a new mine plan or future growth options.
or reputational damage can result from failure principal risk in 2018, as some of to manage this critical resource.
Root cause: Poor water resource our business units are increasingly management or inadequate onsite storage, Mitigation: Various projects have been reporting water availability issues combined with reduced water supply at some implemented at operations most exposed to as a risk to their operations, which operations as weather patterns change, can this risk, focused on: water efficiency: water increases the need to prioritise affect production.
Water is a shared resource security: water treatment: and discharge this risk at Group level.
with local communities and permits to use management, as well as alternative supplies.
water in our operations are at risk if we do not New technologies are being developed that manage the resource in a sustainable manner.
CYBER SECURITY Pillars of value: This risk has decreased since 2017 Loss or harm to our technical Impact: Theft or loss of intellectual property, Risk appetite: Operating within the infrastructure and the use of technology financial losses, increased costs and damage limits of our appetite.
within the organisation from malicious to reputation.
Commentary: While the number or unintentional sources.
Mitigation: We have employed a specialist third of attacks continues to increase, the Root cause: The number and sophistication party to oversee our network security.
We have actions taken to mitigate this risk, of cyber-criminal attacks are increasing.
achieved UK Cyber Essentials Certification and including physical controls and the an ongoing cyber awareness programme is in programme to improve employee place across the Group.
awareness, have reduced the likelihood of successful attack.
PILLARS OF VALUE: Safety and health Production Environment Cost Socio-political Financial People 46 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report 9.
FUTURE DEMAND FOR PGMS Pillars of value: This risk has decreased since 2017 Longer term demand for PGMs is affected Impact: A negative impact on revenue, cash Risk appetite: Operating within by fundamental shifts in market forces.
the limits of our appetite.
Root cause: Longer term demand is at risk Mitigation: Our PGMs business has a strategy Commentary: We see this as a from declining internal combustion engine to grow PGM demand in industrial and jewellery longer term threat to the business.
manufacturing, and a switch to battery sectors through marketing and investment operated vehicles instead of fuel cell electric initiatives in research, product development and vehicles, which continue to use higher market development opportunities, particularly volumes of PGMs.
in the automotive sector and in Indian and Chinese jewellery markets.
FUTURE DEMAND FOR DIAMONDS Pillars of value: This risk has decreased since 2017 Demand for diamonds affected as Impact: Potential loss of rough diamond sales, Risk appetite: Operating within production and marketing of leading to a negative impact on revenue, cash the limits of our appetite.
Commentary: We believe that Root cause: Technological developments Mitigation: While research underlines production of, and demand for, have led to the production of higher quality consumers continued desire for natural disclosed gem synthetics over the gem synthetics.
Producers and distributors of diamonds owing to their inherent value, natural business has increased this material may attempt to sell fraudulently emotional connection and rarity, DeBeers has a owing tothe factors described: into the diamond pipeline undisclosed or comprehensive strategy to mitigate risk of both however, DeBeers mitigation market and sell as gem synthetics disclosed, the entry of undisclosed synthetics into the strategies have matured over 2018 with manufacturing and distribution sources pipeline and the potentially misleading to enable us to respond to this for the latter increasing.
In addition, measures to emphasise, protect and enhance the inherent value of natural diamonds include: increased marketing investment, including through the Diamond Producers Association, e. g. reasserting the emotional symbolism of diamonds through the Real is Rare campaign: investment in blockchain to give consumers confidence as to the natural provenance of a diamond: investment in bespoke technology to readily detect all synthetics: and the launch of Lightbox to reinforce with consumers the inherent difference between synthetic and natural diamonds.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 47
