STRATEGIC REPORT KEY RISKS The Board has carried out a robust assessment of its principal risks, which are set out below, together with the related preventive and mitigation measures.
There has not been a significant change in the assessment of the potential impact of these risks to the Group during the year.
In 2018, the Board assessed and approved the risk appetite for the Group.
Risk appetite is a key element in embedding the risk management system into the Groups organisational culture.
The risk appetite statement helps to translate the Groups strategy into the business units objectives, clarifying which risk levels are, or are not, acceptable.
It promotes consistent risk decision-making, aligned to the strategic focus and risk reward balance approved by the Board.
The Group maintains a risk register through a robust assessment of the potential key risks that could affect the organisations performance.
This is used to ensure that key risks are identified in a comprehensive and systematic way and that the agreed definitions of risk are used.
The key risks, together with the related mitigation techniques have been presented to the Board and are in line with the organisations priorities of Talent Management, Safety and Sustainability, Operations and Growth.
In addition, these four pillars are supported by the Groups corporate governance structures.
The key risks are outlined opposite and in more detail below.
TALENT MANAGEMENT AND LABOUR RELATIONS The Groups highly skilled workforce and experienced management team are critical for maintaining current operations, implementing development projects, achieving long-term growth and pursuing current operations withoutmajor disruption.
Managing talent and maintaining a high-quality labour force, in a changing technological andcultural environment, is a key priority for the Group.
Any failures in this respect could have a negative impact RISK ontheperformance of the existing operations and future growth.
APPETITE PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES The Group maintains good relations with its employees and unions founded on trust, continuous dialogue and good RISK working conditions.
The Group is committed to safety, non-discrimination, diversity and inclusion and compliance withChiles strict labour regulations.
LEVEL There are long-term labour agreements in place with all 19 unions at the Groups operations, helping to ensure labourstability.
The Group seeks to identify and address labour issues that may arise throughout the period covered by the labouragreements and to anticipate any potential issues in good time.
Contractors are an important part of the Groupsworkforce and under Chilean law are subject to the same duties and responsibilities as the Groups own employees.
TheGroups approach is to treat contractors as strategic associates and to build long-term mutually .
The Group maintains constructive relationships with its employees and their unions through regular communication andconsultation.
Union representatives are regularly involved in discussions about the future of the workforce.
The Group develops the talents of its employees through training and career development, invests in initiatives to widen the talent pool and is committed to its diversity and inclusion policy.
Through these actions the Group aims to increase the number of women, people with disabilities and employees with international experience in the workplace.
The Groups Employee Performance Management System is designed to attract and retain key employees by creating suitable reward and remuneration structures and providing personal development opportunities.
The Group has a talent management system to identify and develop internal candidates for key management positions, as well as identifying suitable external candidates where appropriate.
co. uk 25 KEY RISKS CONTINUED SUSTAINABILITY 2.
SAFETY AND HEALTH Safety and health incidents could result in harm to the Groups employees, contractors or local communities.
Ensuring their safety and wellbeing is first and foremost an ethical obligation for the Group and is part of the Groups core values.
A poor safety record or serious accidents could have a long-term impact on the Groups morale, reputation RISK andproduction.
APPETITE PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES The Group seeks continuous improvement of its safety and health risk management procedures, with particular focus on the early identification of risks and the prevention of fatalities.
RISK LEVEL The Corporate Safety and Health Department provides a common strategy for the Groups operations and co-ordinates all safety and health matters.
The Group has a Significant Incident Report system, which is an important part of the overall approach to safety.
The Groups goal of zero serious accidents and fatalities and minimising the number of accidents requires all contractors to comply with its Occupational Safety and Health Plan.
This plan is monitored through monthly audits and is supported by regular training and awareness campaigns for employees, contractors, employees families and local communities, particularly with regard to road safety.
The Group requires all staff in defined safety-critical roles to satisfy at least the minimum qualifications and experience defined for their role and complete any required training prior to commencing their work activities.
Critical controls and verication tools are regularly strengthened through the verication programme and regular audits of critical controls for potentially high-risk activities.
The Group continuously seeks to incorporate technology and innovation to reduce workers exposure to safety and health risks.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT An operating incident that damages the environment could affect both the Groups relationship with local stakeholders and its reputation, undermining its social licence to operate and to grow.
The Group operates in challenging environments, including the largely agricultural Choapa Valley, and the Atacama Desert, where water scarcity is a key issue.
RISK APPETITE PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES The Group has a comprehensive approach to incident prevention.
Relevant risks are assessed, monitored and controlledin order to achieve the goal of zero incidents with significant environmental impact.
The Group works to RISK raiseawareness among employees and contractors, providing training to promote operating excellence.
The potential LEVEL environmental impacts of a project are key considerations when assessing its viability, and the integration of innovative technology in the project design to mitigate such impacts is encouraged.
The Group prioritises the efficient use of natural renewable resources by pioneering the use of sea water, increasing renewable-based power supply, achieving higher rates of reuse and recovery through thickened tailings technology and reducing greenhouse gas emissions through energy efficiency and other measures.
The Group recognises that environmental sustainability is key to its licence to operate and performs regular risk assessments to identify potential impacts and develop preventive and mitigating strategies.
Each site maintains an updated environmental emergency preparedness plan and a detailed closure plan with appropriate financial provisions to ensure physical and chemical stability once operations have ceased.
26 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 4.
COMMUNITY RELATIONS Failure to identify and manage local concerns and expectations can have a negative impact on the Group.
Relations withlocal communities and stakeholders affect the Groups reputation and social licence to operate and grow.
PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES RISK The Group has a dedicated team that establishes and maintains relations with local communities.
These are based APPETITE on trust and mutual benefit throughout the mining lifecycle, from exploration to final remediation.
The Group seeks toidentify early any potentially negative operating impacts and minimise these through responsible behaviour.
This meansacting transparently and ethically, prioritising the safety and health of its employees and contractors, avoiding RISK environmental incidents, promoting dialogue, complying with its commitments to stakeholders and establishing LEVEL mechanisms to prevent or address a crisis.
These steps are undertaken in the early stages of each project and continue throughout the life of each operation.
The Group contributes to the development of communities in the areas in which it operates, starting with an assessment of the existing situation and the specific needs of surrounding communities, while looking to develop long-term, sustainable relations and evaluating the impact of its contributions.
The Group is focused on developing the potential of members of local communities through education, training and employment.
The Group works to communicate clearly and transparently with local communities, in line with the established Community Relations Plan, including the use of a grievance management process, local perception surveys, and local media and community engagement.
POLITICAL, LEGAL AND REGULATORY The Group may be affected by political instability and regulatory developments in the countries in which it is operating, pursuing projects or conducting exploration activities.
Issues regarding the granting of permits, or amendments to permits already granted, and changes to the legal environment or regulations, could adversely affect the Groups operations and development projects.
RISK PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES APPETITE Political, legal and regulatory developments affecting the Groups operations and projects are monitored continually.
The Group operates in full compliance with the existing laws, regulations, licences, permits and rights in each country in which it operates.
RISK LEVEL The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential projects, including the nature of any foreign investment agreements.
The Group monitors proposed changes in government policies and regulations, particularly in Chile, and belongs to several associations that engage with governments on these changes.
This helps to improve the Groups internal processes and better prepares it to meet any new regulatory requirements.
As the Group has no operations or material exposure to the UK, Brexit is not expected to have any appreciable impact on the Group.
This position is kept under review as Brexit discussions continue.
CORRUPTION The Groups operations or projects around the world could be affected by risks related to corruption or bribery, including operating disruptions or delays resulting from a refusal to make facilitation payments.
Such risks depend on the economic or political stability of the country in which the Group is operating.
RISK PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES APPETITE The Group has a zero tolerance regime for any activity that would result in breaking any anti-bribery and corruption legislation.
A robust governance regime, including an Ethics Committee, opens channels of communication, training and multiple layers of controls that are maintained across all operations, exploration activities and third-party relationships.
RISK The Groups compliance model seeks to prevent any activity which may involve directly or indirectly the Group in any LEVEL irregular situation, to detect any potential risk in good time and to act accordingly.
There are control procedures in place that help to prevent corruption, covering such issues as conflicts of interest, suitability of suppliers, the receiving and giving of gifts and hospitality, and facilitation payments.
All employees in the Group receive training on the Groups Compliance Model, which is subject to external certification.
co. uk 27 KEY RISKS CONTINUED COMPETITIVENESS 7.
OPERATIONS The Groups operations are subject to a number of circumstances not wholly within its control.
These include damage to or breakdown of equipment or infrastructure, unexpected geological variations or technical issues, extreme weather conditions and natural disasters, any of which could adversely affect production and or costs.
RISK PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES APPETITE Key risks relating to each operation are identified as part of the regular risk review process undertaken by the individual operations.
This process also identifies appropriate mitigation techniques for such risks.
Monthly reports to the Board provide variance analysis of operating and financial performance, allowing potential issues to be identified in good time RISK and any necessary monitoring or control activities to be implemented, preventing unplanned downtime.
LEVEL The Groups focus is on maximising the availability of equipment and infrastructure and ensuring effective utilisation ofthe Groups assets, in line with the nameplate design and technical limits.
The Group keeps the variation of theprocesses within defined tolerance limits.
In the case of the Groups tailings storage facilities these are monitoredconstantly and reviewed twice a year by a team of independent experts to ensure compliance with international standards.
The Group has Business Continuity Plans and Disaster Recovery Plans for all key processes within its operations in order to mitigate the consequences of a crisis or natural disaster.
The Group also has property damage and business interruption insurance to provide protection from some, although not all, of the costs that may arise from such events.
STRATEGIC RESOURCES Disruption to the supply of any of the Groups key strategic inputs such as electricity, water, fuel, sulphuric acid or mining equipment could have a negative impact on production.
Longer term, restrictions on the availability of key strategic resources such as water and electricity could affect the Groups growth opportunities.
A significant portion of the Groups input costs are influenced by external market factors.
RISK APPETITE PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES In order to achieve the Groups security of supply, contingency plans are in place to address any short-term disruptions to strategic resources.
The Group negotiates early with suppliers of key inputs to ensure supply continuity.
Certain key RISK supplies are purchased from several sources to mitigate potential disruption arising from exposure to a single supplier.
LEVEL To achieve cost competitiveness, the Group endeavours to buy the highest possible proportion of its key inputs such as fuel and tyres, on as variable a price basis as possible, and to link costs to underlying commodity indices where this option exists.
The Group is committed to incorporating sustainable technological and innovative solutions, such as using sea water andrenewable power when economically viable, to mitigate exposure to potentially scarce resources.
The Group maintains a rigorous, risk-based supplier management framework to ensure that it only engages with reputable product and service providers, and keeps in place the necessary controls to ensure the traceability of all supplies including avoiding any conduct related to modern slavery.
CYBER SECURITY Breaches in, or failures of, the Groups information security management could adversely impact its business activities.
PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES The Groups information security management model is designed with defensive structural controls to prevent and RISK mitigate the effects of computer risks.
It employs a set of rules and procedures, including a Disaster Recovery Plan, APPETITE to restore critical IT functions.
The Groups IT systems were audited in 2018 to identify any potential threat to the operations and additional systems have been put in place to protect the Groups assets and data.
RISK LEVEL 28 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 10.
LIQUIDITY Restrictions in financing sources for future growth could prevent the Group from taking advantage of growth or other opportunities available in the market.
PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES RISK Security, liquidity and return represent the order of priorities for the Groups investment strategy.
The Group maintains APPETITE a strong and flexible balance sheet, consistently returning capital to shareholders while leaving the Group with sufficient funds to progress its short, medium and long-term growth plans and maintain financial flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they may arise.
RISK The Group has a risk-averse investment strategy, managing its liquidity by maintaining adequate cash reserves LEVEL and financing facilities through the periodic review of forecast and actual cash flows.
It chooses to hold surplus cash in demand or term deposits or highly liquid investments.
COMMODITY PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATES The Groups results are heavily dependent on commodity prices principally copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum.
The prices of these commodities are strongly influenced by a variety of external factors, including world economic growth, inventory balances, industry demand and supply, possible substitution, etc.
The Groups sales are mainly denominated in US dollars, although some of the Groups operating costs are in Chilean RISK pesos.
As a result, the strengthening of the Chilean peso may negatively affect the Groups financial results.
APPETITE PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES The Group considers exposure to commodity price fluctuations to be an integral part of its business and its usual RISK policyis to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
The Group monitors the commodity markets closely to LEVEL determinethe effect of price fluctuations on earnings, capital expenditure and cash flows.
Very occasionally, when itfeelsappropriate, the Group uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to commodity price fluctuations.
The Group runs its business plans through various commodity price scenarios and develops contingency plans asrequired.
As copper exports account for over 50% of Chiles exports, there is a correlation between the copper price and the USdollar Chilean peso exchange rate.
This natural hedge partly mitigates the Groups foreign exchange exposure.
However, the Group monitors the foreign exchange markets and the macroeconomic variables that affect it and on occasion implements a focused currency-hedging programme to reduce short-term exposure to fluctuations in the US dollar against the Chilean peso.
INNOVATION The Groups ability to deliver on its strategy and performance targets may be undermined by missed opportunities or delays in adopting new technologies and its ability to innovate.
PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES RISK The Group seeks value-capturing innovations that realise cost savings, improving the efficiency, reliability and safety APPETITE of its processes and supporting its corporate strategic pillars.
It evaluates the potential of all ideas using its stage-gate approval process and Innovation Board.
The Group maintains partnerships with academic institutions and companies specialising in technology and engineering RISK companies, including peers, where there is no competitive barrier to doing so, in order to maximise the potential for LEVEL improvements in its processes and systems.
A dedicated team monitors, identifies and analyses external innovation trends with potential application to the Groups business, including in non-operational areas such as product sales and purchasing, and maintains and manages a portfolio of ongoing projects.
The Group has a recognition and incentives programme to encourage all staff to suggest innovations to its day-to-day operating systems.
It also dedicates resources to test and, if successful, escalate promising innovations with potential positive impact on the business and growth options.
co. uk 29 KEY RISKS CONTINUED GROWTH 13.
GROWTH OF MINERAL RESOURCE BASE AND OPPORTUNITIES The Group needs to identify new mineral resources to ensure continued future growth and does so through exploration and acquisition.
The Group may fail to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or may select inappropriate targets.
The long-term RISK commodity price forecast and other assumptions used when assessing potential projects and other investment opportunities have a significant influence on the forecast return on investment and, if incorrectly estimated, could result APPETITE in poor decisions.
Regarding exploration activity, there is a risk that the Group may not identify sufficient viable mineral resources.
RISK PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES LEVEL The Groups exploration and investment strategy prioritises exploration and investment mostly in the Americas.
The Group focuses on growth opportunities in stable and secure countries in order to reduce risk exposure.
A rigorous assessment process evaluates and determines the risks associated with all potential business acquisitions and strategic exploration alliances, including conducting stress-test scenarios for sensitivity analysis.
Each assessment includes country risk analysis including corruption and analysis of the Groups ability to operate in a new jurisdiction.
At the very least, all joint ventures must operate in line with, or to an equivalent of, the Groups policies and technicalstandards.
The Groups Business Development Committee reviews potential growth opportunities and transactions, and approves or recommends them within authority levels set by the Board.
PROJECT EXECUTION Failure to effectively manage the Groups development projects could result in delays in the start of production and cost overruns.
PREVENTIVE AND MITIGATION MEASURES RISK The Group has a project management system to apply the best practices at each phase of a projects development.
APPETITE The project management system provides a common language and standards to support the decision-making process by balancing risk with benefit to increase.
In addition, all geometallurgical models are reviewed by independent experts.
During the project development lifecycle, quality checks for each of the standards applied are carried out by a panel RISK of experts from within the Group.
This panel reviews each completed feasibility study to assess the technical and LEVEL commercial viability of the project and how it can be safely developed, including any relevant risk or opportunity that could potentially impact the schedule, cost or future performance.
Detailed progress reports on ongoing projects are regularly reviewed and include assessments of progress against key project milestones and performance against budget.
Project robustness is stress-tested against a range of copper price scenarios.
Joint project operation teams are established early in the development project in order to assure smooth transition of the project into operating mode once construction is completed.
30 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT COMPLIANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK The way in which the Group achieves its objectives is crucial to the long-term sustainable development of Antofagasta plc.
The Group has zero tolerance for bribery and corruption and is committed to working with integrity and transparency.
It complies with all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery legislation and ensures the necessary controls are in place to prevent unethical behaviour.
AREAS OF FOCUS AND DEVELOPMENT COMPLIANCE MODEL DURING 2018 In-depth training and communication in ethics and compliance, including presentations to the Groups main suppliers, training in the most exposed areas and company-wide communications.
A Compliance Day was held for the Groups executives in August, as a refresher on the Groups Compliance Model, and to discuss PREVENTION DETECTION ACTION examples of ethical dilemmas and reinforce the role of the leadership team in preventing irregular situations.
FULL MANAGEMENT OF RISKS Each new employee is trained on the Compliance Model as part oftheir induction programme.
Supply area controls were reinforced and additional controls PREVENTION: implemented to strengthen the supply chain due diligence process, The main focus of the Compliance Model is to prevent any irregular particularly concerning working conditions and modern slavery.
The Group provides a series of tools and training opportunities to all employees and contractors to support appropriate COMPLIANCE MODEL behaviour through: The Groups Compliance Model applies to both employees and Internal procedures contractors.
It is clearly defined and communicated regularly through Anti-trust guidelines Politically Exposed Persons, facilitation internal channels as well as on the Groups website.
All contracts fees, etc withcontractors include clauses relating to ethics, modern slavery andcrime prevention to ensure adherence to the Groups Due diligence, and reviews of conflicts of interest and potential ComplianceModel.
business partners Inclusion of anti-corruption clauses in contracts The Group actively promotes open communication with all employees, contractors and local communities to support the Training and communication achievement of the Groups objectives and the creation of value DETECTION: inanethical and honest way.
The Group has several tools with which to detect any potentially CODE OF ETHICS irregular situations, including: The Code of Ethics sets out the Groups commitment to undertaking Whistleblowing channels business in a responsible and transparent manner.
The Code requireshonesty, integrity and accountability from all employees Data analysis andcontractors and includes guidelines for identifying and managing Updating due diligence potential conflicts of interest.
It is the basis for the Compliance Model Internal controls and supports the implementation of all other related activities.
Internal audit The Compliance Model is reviewed regularly, both internally and by third parties, and on matters relating to corruption it is certified under ACTION: Chilean anti-corruption legislation.
If an irregular situation is detected it is investigated according to the Groups allegation investigation procedures.
Each operating company has an internal Ethics Committee which reviews the conclusions of investigations and suggests action plans to the corporate Ethics Committee.
The performance of the compliance programme is reported quarterly to the Audit and Risk Committee and every six months to the Board.
The security and confidentiality of employees using whistleblowing channels is guaranteed, safeguarding individuals and achieving greater transparency.
The Groups Crime Prevention Model ensures compliance with the anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in the United Kingdom and Chile and it is certified by an external entity.
co. uk 31 CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Mining is a long-term activity which has an even longer-term impact and the Group seeks to ensure that its business develops on a sustainable basis.
IN THIS SECTION How we engage with 34 our stakeholders Employees 36 Communities 38 Suppliers 40 Customers 42 Safety and health 44 Environment 46 Value creation 50 Total economic contribution 51 32 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT At Antofagasta, the safety and health ANTOFAGASTA DURING 2018 of the workforce always comes first.
SAFETY AND HEALTH The Group is also continuously Visible leadership: regular onsite safety and health reviews improving its environmental bysenior management to verify critical controls in the miningand transport divisions.
performance, contributing to the social Mining safety and health controls applied to the development of the areas where it transportdivision.
operates and maintaining open and transparent communication with EMPLOYEES local stakeholders.
Diversity and Inclusion Strategy rolled out to all operations: Somos inclusin, elegimos la diversidad We are inclusion, The sustainability of the Groups business is structured around we choose diversity.
five pillars: People, Financial Performance, Environmental Labour negotiations successfully concluded at Los Pelambres.
Management, Social Development and Transparency, as set outin the recently updated Sustainability Policy.
SUPPLIERS Antofagasta remains convinced its operations allow it to produce Mining division joined the mining cluster in the city of lasting positive changes in the communities and regions where Antofagasta, an alliance that seeks to strengthen employability itoperates.
This drives its constant effort to mine in a more and innovation in northern Chile.
efficient, sustainable and inclusive way.
Transport division obtained the ProPyme hallmark to The Groups sustainability priorities are its values, its principal guarantee better conditions for SMEs.
risks and its stakeholders key concerns and expectations, all of which are reviewed annually by senior management as part of 61% of the Groups purchases on goods and services was the sustainability reporting process.
from companies that use local employees, infrastructure and resources.
No lawsuits or fines arising from incidents in the supply chain.
REPORTING AND TRANSPARENCY The Group is part of sustainability indexes such as COMMUNITIES FTSE4Good, the STOXX Global ESG Leaders, and the ECPI Somos Choapa We are Choapa community engagement Global Developed ESG Best in Class.
Also, Antofagasta is member model at Los Pelambres replicated successfully as Dialogues of the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, and for Development at the Groups operations in northern Chile.
engages with the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP with the Launched new Social Management Model in both mining and objective to improve its sustainability performance and share transport divisions.
good practices within the mining industry.
ENVIRONMENT Set first carbon reduction target to reduce forecast carbon dioxide emissions over the period 2018 to 2022 by 300,000tonnes.
Transport division adopted the mining divisions Environmental Management System.
Started pilot of public-private programme to develop an onlinesystem to monitor the physical and chemical stability oftailings deposits.
SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE Implemented a new Compliance Model.
Company published its third Payment to Governments report in June.
