RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Effective risk management is an essential part of the Groups culture and strategy.
Accurate and timely identification, assessment and management of key risks allows for a clear understanding of the actions required throughout theorganisation in order to achieve the Groups objectives.
KEY ELEMENTS OF INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT AREAS OF FOCUS AND DEVELOPMENT DURING 2018 RECOGNISE THAT RISKS ARE INHERENT TO THE BUSINESS An independent review of the Groups risk management maturity level was concluded in 2018 and showed significant progress since the last Only through adequate risk management can the Group effectively review in 2012.
Its focus was to strengthen the risk management system support internal stakeholders in key strategic decisions and implement by further embedding risk management in the Groups culture and the Groups strategy improving the overall maturity level.
The main activities were as follows: EXPOSURE TO RISKS MUST BE CONSISTENT WITH THE The Board reviewed, defined and approved the Groups risk GROUPSRISK APPETITE appetite for all key risks and updated the risk management policy The Board defines and regularly reviews the Groups acceptable Risk methodology was reviewed, strengthened and aligned withthe levelof exposure to key risks.
Risks are aligned with the Groups risk appetite riskappetite, taking into consideration the balance between threats A risk assessment was carried out at all of the Groups operating and opportunities companies, projects, exploration activities and support areas.
Risksthat represented a threat to the Groups strategic goals were ALL MEMBERS OF THE GROUP ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR identified as key and presented to the Audit and Risk Committee MANAGING RISKS and the Board for their review Each business activity carries out risk evaluations to ensure the Critical controls and key risk indicator dashboards were defined soundidentification, management, monitoring and reporting of risks foreach key risk and action plans to keep the exposure within the which could impact the achievement of the Groups goals acceptable limits were prepared Timely and comprehensive risk analysis was embedded into each RISK IS ANALYSED THROUGH A CONSISTENT FRAMEWORK relevant decision-making process, including for all matters The Groups risk management methodology is applied to all operating presented to the Board for approval companies, projects, exploration activities and support areas, so that Risks status and the applicability and efficacy of critical on-site the Group has a comprehensive view of uncertainties that could affect controls were included in the performance reviews of the members its strategic goals of the Executive Committee and Risk and Compliance team THE GROUP IS COMMITTED TO CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT Lessons learned and best practices are proactively incorporated into the Groups procedures to protect and unlock value sustainably VIABILITY STATEMENT financing plans.
The Directors have taken into consideration the principal risks which could impact the prospects of the Group over To address the requirements of provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK this period, and consider the most relevant to be risks to the copper Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the price outlook.
Robust down-side sensitivity analyses have been prospects of the Group over a period of five years.
performed, assessing the impact of a significant deterioration in Mining is a long-term business and timescales can run into decades.
the copper price outlook over the five-year period.
This analysis has The Group maintains Life-of-Mine plans covering the full remaining focused on the existing asset base of the Group, without factoring mine life for each of the mining operations.
More detailed mediumin potential development projects, which is considered appropriate term planning is performed for a five-year time horizon as well as for an assessment of the Groups ability to manage the impact of a very detailed annual budgets.
Accordingly, a period of five years depressed economic environment.
The stress tests indicated results has been selected as the appropriate period over which to assess which could be managed in the normal course of business.
the prospects of the Group.
Based on their assessment of the Groups prospects and viability, When taking account of the impact of the Groups current position the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that on this viability assessment, the Directors have considered in the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities particular its financial position, including its significant balance of as they fall due over the next five years.
cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments and the borrowing facilities in place, including their terms and remaining durations.
GOING CONCERN When assessing the prospects of the Group, the Directors have Based on the factors considered above, the Directors also considered the Groups copper price forecasts, the Groups expected considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on production levels, operating cost profile, capital expenditure and thegoing concern basis.
22 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE Risk owners within each operation The Board determines the nature and extent These processes allow the Board to monitor have direct responsibility for the risk of the significant risks that the Group will effectively the Groups major risks and the management processes and for the accept to achieve its strategic objectives, and preventive and mitigating procedures, and continuous updating of individual business maintains sound risk management systems.
toassess whether the actual exposure is risk registers, including relevant mitigation consistent with the defined risk appetite.
If The Board receives detailed analysis of activities.
The owners of the risks and agap is identified, additional action plans are key matters for consideration in advance controls at each business unit are identified, prepared and analysed.
Risk management of Board meetings.
This includes reports on providing effective and direct management of reports are sent to the Board quarterly.
the Groups operating performance, including risk.
Each operation holds its own annual risk safety and health, financial, environmental, The Risk and Compliance Management workshop in which the business units risks legal and social matters, key developments Department is responsible for risk and mitigation activities are reviewed in detail inthe Groups exploration, project and management systems across the Group.
Workshops are business development activities, information Itpromotes the risk management policy, also used to assess key risks that may on the commodity markets, updates vision and purpose, ensuring a strong risk affectrelationships with stakeholders, ontalentmanagement and analysis of management culture exists at all levels of limitresources, interrupt operations and or financialinvestments.
The department supports negatively affect potential future growth.
business areas in analysing their risks, The provision of this information allows identifying existing preventive and mitigating Mitigation techniques for significant the early identification of potential issues and controls, and defining further action plans.
strategicand business unit risks are the assessment of any necessary preventive Itmaintains and regularly updates the annuallyreviewed by the Risk and and mitigating actions.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the The department reports quarterly to the The Group promotes a consistent risk Board by reviewing the effectiveness of the Audit and Risk Committee on the overall management process across the different risk management process and monitoring key riskmanagement process, with detailed business units, ensuring risk is considered risks, preventive and mitigation procedures updates of key risks, mitigation activities atall levels of the organisation.
Adequate risk and action plans.
The Chairman of the and actions being taken.
information flows from the business units to Committee reports to the Board following the centre and from the Board back to the each Committee meeting and, if necessary, The General Managers of each of the business units.
the Board discusses the matters raised in operations have overall responsibility for more detail.
leading and supporting risk management.
Further information on the Board and its Committees is given in the Governance section on pages 104 to 120 Overall responsibility for risk management and its alignment with the Groups strategy Approves Risk Management Policy BOARD Defines risk appetite OF Reviews, challenges and monitors key risks DIRECTORS Support the Board in monitoring key risks and exposure relative to the Groups risk appetite BOARD Provide recommendations to the Board on the risk management system COMMITTEES Review the effectiveness and implementation of the risk management system Assesses risks and potential impacts on the achievement of strategic goals EXECUTIVE Promotes the Groups risk management COMMITTEE culture in each of the business areas Owners of key risks FIRST LINE SECOND LINE THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE OF DEFENCE OF DEFENCE Each person in the Group is The Risk and Compliance The Internal Audit Department responsible for identifying, Department is accountable for provides assurance on the preventing and mitigating risks monitoring the Groups overall risk risk management process, in their business area, and profile and risk management including the effectiveness of escalating it to the appropriate performance, registering risk and the performance of the first level, if required.
issuing alerts if any deviation is and second lines of defence.
