Governance Financial statements Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS Principal risks are those that the Board considers would have the most impact on Ascentials strategic objectives.
The conclusion of this analysis was that the most goods, technology, property, supply chain, tax, Principal risks and uncertainties significant threat to Ascential is the increased banking and corporate structuring.
With the The Board has made a robust assessment of the broader economic uncertainty including risk of exception of the economic risk discussed above, principal risks facing the business including those recession.
The impact of this threat is mitigated the risk of the impacts being material for related to its business model, future by the diversification of Ascentials business, Ascential at a Group level was considered low.
performance, solvency or liquidity, and has both geographically and across sectors and This is consistent with the fact that Ascential is considered them in the formulation of the industries see the Business model on page 16 primarily a service-based company, with a Long-term viability statement.
and Market review on page 14 for more detail.
diversified set of businesses and geographical Additionally, recession planning forms part of footprint.
The Board has therefore concluded Brexit risk Ascentials risk management process and the that it remains appropriate to identify and As part of this assessment, the Board considered influence of Brexit on recession risk has been manage impacts from Brexit under the relevant an impact analysis of the risks associated with considered and monitored as part of this specific principal risk rather than recording Britain exiting the EU.
As there remain significant process.
A range of severe but plausible Brexit as a discrete principal risk.
uncertainties and unknowns in respect of the outcomes were also considered when final deal that may be struck, the impact analysis performing sensitivity analysis on long focused on the worst case scenario of a range financial projections.
disorderly hard Brexit i. e no withdrawal agreement reached in 2018 or an agreement The analysis also considered more specific and reached that does not obtain parliamentary direct challenges to Ascentials business model approval from the UK or EU 27, and the UK and operations under the categories of: political, begins operating on World Trade Organization economic, talent, trade in services, trade in rules on 30 March 2019.
37 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED The Board considers the following to be the Companys principal risks: BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC Description Link to strategy Impact Mitigation Our customers operate in a variety We have increased our levels of investment in new Market Leading Customer of end-markets, each with their own product development.
competitive pressures affecting We have prioritised the development of digital end-market customer preferences and spend.
products within our capital allocation.
Changes in these end-markets could We are developing a strategic sales capability to development increase completion, reduce customer optimise engagement with large global corporates spend, or make our products less and increase the number of strategic customer relevant to customer needs, which relationships.
could lead to a loss of market share We have a strategic focus on customer retention to and profitability.
give early indication of changes to perceived value of products.
Significant recession could lead to Accelerate Organic Our brands hold market leading positions in Economic and reduced customer demand for our Growth their respective markets and many are closely products and services.
integrated into customers operational processes geopolitical which increases the resiliency of revenues in the Political and regulatory changes may face of reduced demand.
disrupt patterns of trade, impose conditions We conduct recession modelling which gives operating inefficiencies or affect the early visibility of recession, enabling plans to be Companys tax position.
implemented proactively to minimise the impact of recession.
We conducted a Brexit impact assessment to identify any mitigation actions required.
We monitor the geopolitical landscape and develop plans to respond to specific threats or opportunities.
Market Leading Increased competition, e. g. from wellWe have a strategic focus on product development Competition funded new entrants, aggregators to ensure continued relevance to customers.
or shifting market dynamics creating We maintain awareness of emerging technology substitution opportunities for consultancy firms, and market developments through a variety of could result in a reduction in market sources including relationships with existing vendors share and revenue.
and independent partners, market research and involvement with peer networks.
We closely monitor the competitive landscape to identify opportunities and threats.
38 Governance Financial statements Strategic report BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC CONTINUED Description Link to strategy Impact Mitigation The ability to grow our revenues We have formal project plans for all new product.
Market Leading New product organically is central to Ascentials development, with appropriate gating and milestones.
sustainability, and development of Our performance against those plans is monitored by and capability new products and capabilities is a key the Executive Committee.
Failure to development successfully execute this development could negatively impact Ascentials growth rates and profitability.
Growth through acquisitions entails Capital Allocation We have a strong and experienced M&A team, Acquisitions several risks, including the ability to overseen by the Chief Executive Officer, with clear identify acquisition opportunities, acquisition disposal criteria, careful due diligence and and disposals to achieve the expected benefits, to pre-completion planning for integration transitional integrate acquired businesses with our service agreements.
existing businesses, to retain staff and We have a formal project management function to to preserve sources of competitive manage post-acquisition integration.
Acquisitions which move We conduct post-transaction reviews to identify any the Group into different geographies key learning points to inform future transactions.
or markets increase operational complexity.
Disposals may not realise appropriate value.
Acquisitions which do not deliver anticipated value or are a poor strategic fit may lead to a loss of profitability, market share and damage to reputation.
Accelerate Organic A lack of effective succession planning The Nomination Committee has continued to oversee People risk Growth could undermine achievement of key succession planning to ensure robust succession plans, business objectives, particularly in parts particularly for senior management.
of the business that are structurally The operational restructure of Ascential and transition exposed to higher key person risk.
to One Ascential improves management capacity and mitigates key person risk.
High employee attrition in key areas We have increased our employee engagement score, would increase the risk to delivery of with identified actions planned to drive engagement strategic and financial goals.
Strategic skills shortages and inability We have significantly increased the proportion to attract talent could compromise of direct recruitment which has improved our execution of growth, new product recruitment ability and quality of hire.
development and business efficiency programmes, leading to weaker organic growth and margins.
The level of uncertainty in economic and political conditions has continued to increase as has the pace of How the risk change in our customer end-markets.
This increasing pace of change is considered to be a new constant and the Company is well placed to respond positively to these changes.
2018 was a critical year for has changed establishing the capabilities we need.
This completed, 2019 will be a year to focus on integrating the unique information sources now within the Group and returning the Marketing segment to growth.
39 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED OPERATIONAL Description Link to strategy Impact Mitigation The change in availability or structure We have continued to invest in our ability to respond Accelerate Organic Reliance on of data provided by suppliers could flexibly and quickly to changes in data availability and Growth negatively impact Ascentials ability to structures, as well as in alternative data sources.
data providers provide its product and services, and We are building more strategic relationships with key increase costs reduce profitability.
data suppliers to gain earlier visibility of changes.
Accelerate Organic Loss of proprietary data could We maintain and test network security, network Loss, misuse Growth undermine the value that we derive resilience and business continuity plans, and monitor from our intellectual property.
emerging threats to ensure our preparations and or theft of responses are current.
We have an obligation to protect We have a cyber incident response process agreed.
customer and employee data and loss or proprietary, We have established an Information Governance misuse of this data could result in a loss Committee and appointed a Data Protection Officer of reputation, and regulatory sanctions employee or to ensure compliance with GDPR and other relevant or fines.
There is a risk of financial loss through customer data We train our employees and raise their awareness on successful phishing attacks or other how to behave with regard to information security cyber infiltration.
best practices, particularly phishing and social engineering.
Accelerate Organic Our events are held at specific locations We have comprehensive security plans for each Venue Growth which may become unavailable for event with appropriate mitigation incorporated into use through damage, or may become operational planning, including contingency planning availability, available only on uneconomic terms.
with local authorities and police.
We maintain close relationship with major venue Travel disruption or safety risks from security providers, and maintain contingency plans to move a variety of causes such as natural events or dates if necessary.
disasters, civil disorder, political and access We maintain insurance cover in respect of certain instability and terrorism may prevent event cancellation risks.
both customers and our own staff from reaching the event location, or lead to customers being unwilling to travel.
Accelerate Organic Employees, customers, suppliers or We have developed a Group Crisis Management Plan, Business Growth assets may be directly or indirectly to manage how Ascentials leadership team directs the impacted by adverse security or natural business through any major incident or crisis which resilience events.
might severely disrupt operations, threaten business performance or damage reputation.
IT service interruption either through We have implemented a High Availability Programme, malicious attack, human error, lack including resilience between data centres, for our core of data centre capacity or other applications.
operational failure could interrupt We have long-term contracts with our key suppliers all aspects of the Group leading to which are professionally procured and include rigorous lost revenue for transactional brands service level agreements.
and damage to the reputation of our subscription based brands.
We see the risk of cyber attack as continuous and look to maintain our response against the increasing How the risk sophistication of attacks.
Although following the disposal of the Exhibitions business we have significantly fewer events, we continue to give serious consideration to terrorism and the perception of increased has changed terrorist risk and have robust event security plans in place to preserve our resilience to these threats.
40 Governance Financial statements Strategic report FINANCIAL Description Link to strategy Impact Mitigation We have material exposures to different The impact of movements in US Dollar and Euro Accelerate Organic Financial risk currencies and functions in these currencies against Sterling is set out on page 27.
Growth currencies affect the reported financial Our approach to foreign exchange risk is set out in results.
Note 32 to the financial statements on page 123.
We have an experienced tax function, supported by As a global business, we are subject professional advisers, who maintain a constructive to many forms of taxation in many relationship with tax authorities, and keep up to date different jurisdictions.
Tax law and with changes in tax legislation and in the development administration is complex and of our business to enable effective tax planning.
tax authorities may challenge our We make full, accurate and timely disclosures in application of tax law, potentially leading submissions to tax authorities that we work with to lengthy and costly disputes and collaboratively to achieve early agreement and material tax changes.
certainty on complex matters whenever possible.
The risk of higher currency volatility has increased as a result of the ongoing Brexit uncertainty, as well How the risk as increased level of uncertainty around the US fiscal policy including trade negotiations.
The increase in geographical diversification has reduced the Groups exposure to foreign exchange volatility on an has changed underlying performance basis.
REGULATORY Description Link to strategy Impact Mitigation Accelerate Organic Change in regulation could make our Our legal team, supported by professional advisers, Regulation Growth current business models unprofitable or monitors changes in regulations and emerging best unsustainable.
practice in the sector and in key policy areas.
It is responsible for ensuring an appropriate Increased revenues in geographies with compliance framework, with effective policies, more complex regulatory environments processes and reporting.
Each part of the business or expansion into new geographies can has individuals responsible for embedding regulatory increase the risk of regulatory breaches.
Compliance failures could lead to We have continued our training and awareness criminal and civil prosecution, including programmes across the business.
fines, censure, reputational damage and inability to trade in certain jurisdictions.
We view the level of regulatory risk as unchanged, although the potential impact of Brexit on the UK How the risk regulatory regime will be closely monitored.
