Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT Effective risk management is key to the success of our business.
Risk is ultimately about future uncertainty, both opportunities and threats, and future events which might impact on our business performance.
Our framework for risk management promotes Managing business risks a bottom-up approach with top-down support We do not seek to eliminate all risk but to ensure and challenge.
The risk register is central to that we only take risks that are relevant to our the process for capturing and discussing risks strategic goals and balanced by proportionate throughout the business.
We do this through our risk management at a divisional level, as well as at a key brand framework which provides a systematic process and business partner function level.
Acquired for the identification and management of the businesses are transitioned into the Ascential key risks and opportunities which may impact risk management framework as part of a formal the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Risk assessment follows a standard framework to assess impact Risk governance and likelihood, to enable a more consistent It is the responsibility of all of our colleagues to aggregation of risk across the Group.
manage risks within their domain.
Ultimately, accountability for risk management resides with the Board which is responsible for ensuring that there is an adequate and appropriate risk management framework and culture in place.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Set Define Define Risk Deliver strategy strategic risk assessment objectives appetite Define a sustainable Agree clear strategic Determine the level Apply the approved Deliver strategic strategy to achieve objectives of risk that can be risk assessment objectives Ascentials goals taken in pursuit of the process to identify through informed strategic objectives and manage key risks decision making 34 Governance Financial statements Strategic report RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK TOP-DOWN OVERSIGHT, ACCOUNTABILITY, MONITORING AND ASSURANCE The Board Holds overall Sets risk appetite Sets the tone and Completes robust responsibility for taking into account influences the culture assessment of Ascentials risk strategic objectives of risk management principal risks management and internal control systems Audit Committee Executive Committee Monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of Prioritises principal risks internal control and risk management systems Allocates resources to manage risks Ensures that a robust assessment of the according to potential impact principal risks facing the Company has been undertaken Communicates priorities to the business Monitors and reviews the effectiveness Reviews Risk Committee registers to agree of the Internal Audit function aggregate risk register Identifies emerging actions where Groupwide action is required Risk Committees divisional brand business partner functions Identifies risks and risk owners Scores impact of risk on a mitigated and unmitigated basis according to consistent risk scoring methodology Identifies controls and mitigations to manage risk Agrees action plans to strengthen controls or address deficiencies Reviews progress with action plans and current risks Identifies emerging risks BOTTOM-UP: IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS AND MITIGATIONS 35 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED determines whether controls are appropriate More information on the work of the Risk assurance to provide financial, managerial and operating Internal Audit function is included in the The Internal Audit function provides secondinformation that is accurate, reliable Audit Committee report on page 61. line assurance as to the effectiveness and timely: of the internal control environment determines whether risks are appropriately through its primary responsibilities: identified and managed: reviews and assesses the internal control assesses whether assets are appropriately environment with focus on control safeguarded: and effectiveness, quality and continuous evaluates the systems established to ensure improvement: compliance with those policies, plans, procedures, laws and regulations which could have a significant impact on Ascential.
The Directors also assessed the potential impact on the Companys Long-term viability statement prospects should certain risks to the business materialise.
This was done The Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the Group in by considering specific severe but plausible scenarios aligned to the accordance with Provision C2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance principal risks identified on pages 37 to 41, applied to stress test the Code.
This assessment has been based on a three-year timeframe, long-range financial forecast.
The six scenarios considered to have the covering the period to 31 December 2021, which is considered most serious impact on the financial viability of the Company were appropriate because it aligns with the Companys strategic planning and modelled in detail.
financial forecasting horizon, and because, in relation to viability, it provides a sufficiently long period for stress testing scenarios to be The specific scenarios were: modelled through at least one complete business cycle.
a global recession, designed to capture the impact of the most serious plausible manifestation of macro-economic risks: The Companys prospects have been assessed mainly with reference a serious safety and security incident at a major event: to the Companys strategic planning and associated long-range financial the loss of a major customer: forecast.
This incorporates a detailed bottom-up budget for each part a substantial breach of cyber security and associated loss of data: of the business.
The budgeting and planning process is thorough a significant change in underlying data sources resulting in reduced and includes input from most operational line managers as well as data availability for our ecommerce services: and senior management, and forms the basis for most variable the combination of the two most serious individual scenarios compensation incentives.
The Board also participates during the year in both strategic planning For each scenario, the modelling captured the impact on key measures of and reviewing the detailed bottom-up budgets.
The outputs from this profitability, cash flow, liquidity and debt covenant headroom.
Scenarios process include full financial forecasts of EBITDA, Adjusted earnings, included the effects of plausible mitigation plans where appropriate.
In all cash flow, working capital and net debt.
cases modelled, the Group was able to continue to fund its operations and to comply with debt covenant requirements.
The Directors consider that the planning process and forecasts provide a sound underpinning to managements expectations of the Based on this assessment of prospects and stress test scenarios, Groups prospects.
together with its review of principal risks and the effectiveness of risk management procedures, the Directors confirm that they have a The Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in facing the Group, including those that could threaten its business model, operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This assessment was made 31 December 2021. with reference to the Companys current position and prospects, strategy and principal risks, including how these are managed.
