Risk Overview We face a diverse range of risks and uncertainties.
Those risks which have the potential to have a material impact on our business or results of operations are our PrincipalRisks.
The Board has carried out a robust Risk management embedded assessment of the Principal Risks facing the in business processes Group, including those that threaten its We strive to embed sound risk management in business model, future performance, solvency our strategy, planning, budgeting and or liquidity.
The table overleaf provides insight performance management processes.
into the ongoing Principal Risks, outlining why effective management of these risks is The Board defines the Groups risk appetite, important and relevant to the business, how enabling the Group, in both quantitative and we are managing them and which risks are qualitative terms, to judge the level of risk it is rising, falling or have remained static during prepared to take in achieving its overall the past 12 months.
The Board expresses the acceptable levels of risk for the Group using Our approach to risk management is designed three key dimensions.
These are: i earnings to encourage clear decision making on which and cash flow: ii return on investment: and risks we take and how we manage these risks.
Annually, the Group Fundamental to this process is a sound develops a detailed three-year bottom-up understanding of every risks potential business plan and 10-year long-range strategic, commercial, financial, compliance, projection to support the delivery of its legal and reputational implications.
The Board considers these in the context of the Groups risk appetite.
Further information on our key risk Adjustments are made to the plan or risk management and assurance processes can appetite to ensure they remain aligned.
Our be found in Risk from pages 220 to 230 which risk management approach is aligned to our also includes a description of circumstances strategy and business planning processes.
under which principal and other risks and We cross-check financial risks and uncertainties might arise in the course of our opportunities identified through the business business and their potential impact.
planning process and integrate our findings into the overall risk management reporting.
Progress in the delivery of Group-wide Line managers are accountable for identifying restructuring initiatives has been sufficient for and managing risks and for delivering the Board to determine that the risk Delivery business objectives in accordance with the of Gains from Productivity Initiatives Groups risk appetite.
previously listed as a Principal Risk is no longer a Principal Risk.
The Board will, The SET is required by the Board to oversee however, continue to monitor strategic and monitor the effectiveness of the risk initiatives and their impact on employee management processes implemented by engagement.
Within each SET function, leadership teams discuss the risks the Managing risk business faces.
Every year, we map these We work to ensure that we have effective risk risks to AstraZenecas risk taxonomy.
This management processes in place to support process provides a Group-wide assessment the delivery of our strategic priorities.
This for the Board, Audit Committee and SET.
enables us to meet the expectations of our Quarterly, each SET function assesses stakeholders and upholds our Values.
We changes to these risks, new and emerging monitor our business activities and external risks, and mitigation plans.
These are and internal environments for new, emerging assimilated into a Group Risk Report for the and changing risks to ensure that these are Board, Audit Committee and SET.
The Board believes tools are in place to assist risk leaders and that existing processes provide it with managers in managing, monitoring and adequate information on the risks and planning for risk, and we continue to work on uncertainties we face.
Details of these risks developing our risk management standards and the potential impacts on our business are and guidelines.
Global Compliance, Finance contained on pages 220 to 230. and Internal Audit Services support SET by 70 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report advising on policy and standard setting, Scenario 1 Principal Risk: demand, pricing, Brexit monitoring and auditing, and communication market access and competitive pressures: On 23 June 2016, the UK held a referendum and training, as well as reporting on the quality and execution of commercial on the UKs continuing membership of the EU, adequacy of line management processes as strategies: secure and protect product IP.
the outcome of which was a decision for the they apply to risk management.
Lower than anticipated growth rates, UK to leave the EU Brexit.
The progress of adverse impact of generic competition and current negotiations between the UK We have a business resilience framework greater than anticipated pressure on pricing Government and the EU and the ratification of which governs our ability to prevent or quickly across multiple products and markets.
the outcome of those negotiations by the UK adapt to situations while maintaining Scenario 2 Principal Risk: delivery of and EU parliaments will likely determine the continuous business operations and pipeline and new products.
Assumes no future terms of the UKs relationship with the safeguarding our people, processes and launches of new products.
EU, as well as to what extent the UK will be reputation.
Within this we have business Scenario 3 Principal Risk: maintain supply able to continue to benefit from the EUs continuity plans to address situations in which of compliant, quality product.
Regulatory single market and other arrangements.
Until specific risks have the potential to severely observation or other equipment failure the Brexit negotiation and parliamentary impact our business.
These plans include results in a 12-month outage at one of our ratification processes are completed, it is training and crisis simulation activities for key manufacturing sites.
difficult to anticipate the potential impact on business managers.
Scenario 4 Principal Risk: achieve strategic AstraZenecas market share, sales, plans and meet targets and expectations.
profitability and results of operations.
The M ore information about our Global Compliance function Income from divestment of core assets Group operates from a global footprint and and the Code of Ethics can be found in the Corporate reinvested into core therapy areas and new retains flexibility to adapt to changing Governance Report from page 91. products reduced by half.
The uncertainty during and Scenario 5 Principal Risk: externally driven after the period of negotiation is also expected Viability statement demand, pricing, access and competitive to increase volatility and may have an In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the pressures.
Failure to establish EU-based economic impact, particularly in the UK and 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the regulatory testing and release capability for Eurozone.
The Group has responded by Board has determined that a three-year a product leads to inability to supply engaging proactively with key external period to 31 December 2021 constitutes an impacted products into the EU following a stakeholders and establishing a crossappropriate period over which to provide its no deal Brexit outcome.
functional internal steering and viability statement.
Scenario 6 Principal Risk: meet regulatory implementation committee to understand, and ethical expectations on commercial assess, plan and implement operational The Board considers annually and on a practices including bribery and corruption actions that may be required.
Many of these rollingbasis, a three-year bottom-up detailed and scientific exchanges.
Legal, regulatory actions are being implemented based on business plan.
The Board also assesses non-compliance or cyber incident causes assumptions rather than defined positions so the Companys prospects using a 10-year reputational damage in a key market that the Group is able to mitigate the risks long-range projection but, given the inherent resulting in a significant and ongoing arising from variable external outcomes.
The uncertainty involved, believes that the reduction in market share.
Group has adopted a base case planning three-year statement presents readers of assumption of hard Brexit No deal since the thisAnnual Report with a reasonable degree In addition, the Board has considered more time of the referendum and has taken of assurance while still providing a longerstressed scenarios including restrictions on appropriate actions to date based on those term perspective.
debt factoring and no access to capital assumptions.
Currently, many actions have markets to raise new debt.
In each scenario or been implemented or are in process including, The three-year detailed business plan combination of scenarios above, the Group is but not limited to: engagement with captures risks to the sales and cost forecasts able to rely on its committed credit facilities, government and regulators: duplication of at a market and SET function level.
The plan leverage its cost base, reduce capital release testing and procedures for products is used to perform central net debt and expenditure and take other cash management for the EU27 and the UK markets: transfer of headroom profile analysis.
The following measures to mitigate the impacts and still have regulatory licences, re-design of packaging scenarios have been applied to this analysis residual capacity to absorb further shocks.
and labelling, additional inventory builds and to create a severe downside reflecting some of changes to logistics plans and shipping the Principal Risks detailed on pages 72 to 73.
Based on the results of this analysis, the routes: customs and duties set up for Directors have a reasonable expectation that introduction or amendment of existing tariffs the Company will be able to continue in or processes: associated IT systems operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due reconfigurations: and banking arrangement over the three-year period of their assessment.
The Board reviews the potential impact of Brexit regularly as an integral part of its Principal Risks as outlined overleaf rather than as a standalone risk.
The Board most recently reviewed the Groups Brexit readiness plans at its meeting in December 2018 and continues to assess its impact.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Risk Overview 71 Risk Overview continued Principal Risks Strategy key Trend key Achieve Scientific Leadership Increasing risk Return to Growth Decreasing risk Be a Great Place to Work Unchanged Achieve Group Financial Targets Risk category and Principal Risks Context potential impact Management actions Trend versus prior year Product pipeline and intellectual property Delivery of The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline pipeline and is a complex, risky and lengthy process involving Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, new products significant financial, R&D and other resources.
A project licensing and collaborations may fail or be delayed at any stage of the process due to a Focus on innovative science in three main number of factors, which could reduce our long-term therapy areas growth, revenue and profit Meet quality, Our pharmaceutical products and commercialisation Quality management systems incorporating regulatory and processes are subject to extensive regulation.
Delays in monitoring, training and assurance activities ethical drug regulatory reviews and approvals impact patients and Collaborating with regulatory bodies and approval and market access, and can materially affect our business or advocacy groups to monitor and respond to disclosure financial results changes in the regulatory environment, requirements including revised process, timelines and guidance Secure Discovering and developing medicines requires a Active management of IP rights and IP litigation and protect significant investment of resources.
For this to be a viable product IP investment, new medicines must be safeguarded from being copied for a reasonable amount of time.
If we are not successful in obtaining, maintaining, defending or enforcing our IP rights, our revenues could be materially adversely affected Third parties may allege infringement of their IP, and may seek injunctions and or damages, which, if ultimately awarded, could adversely impact our commercial and financial performance Commercialisation Externally Operating in over 100 countries, we are subject to political, Focus on Growth Platforms Global economic and driven demand, socioeconomic and financial factors both globally and in Demonstrating value of medicines health political conditions placing pricing, access individual countries.
There can be additional pressure from economics downward pressure on and competitive governments and other healthcare payers on medicine Global footprint healthcare pricing and pressures prices and sales in response to recessionary pressures, Diversified portfolio spending, and therefore reducing our revenue, profits and cash flow on revenue Quality and If commercialisation of a product does not succeed as Focus on Growth Platforms The number of new product execution of anticipated, or its rate of sales growth is slower than Accelerate and risk share through business launches is increasing.
commercial anticipated, there is a risk that we may not be able to fully development and strategic collaborations and Maximising the commercial strategies recoup the costs in launching it alliances potential of these new products underpins the success of our strategy and the delivery of our shortand medium-term targets Supply chain and business execution Maintain supply Delays or interruptions in supply can lead to recalls, Establishment of new manufacturing facilities, of compliant, product shortages, regulatory action, reputational harm creating capacity and technical capability to quality product andlost sales support new product launches, particularly biologics Business continuity and resilience initiatives, disaster and data recovery and emergency response plans Contingency plans including dual sourcing, multiple suppliers and stock levels Quality management systems 72 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk category and Principal Risks Context potential impact Management actions Trend versus prior year Supply chain and business execution continued Information Significant disruption to our IT systems, cybersecurity Cybersecurity framework and dashboard Growing multi-faceted cyber technology, incidents including breaches of data security, or data Privacy office oversees compliance with data threat.
Tougher legislative data security privacy failure, could harm our reputation and materially privacy legislation environment governs data andprivacy affect our financial condition or results of operations.
This Disaster and data recovery plans protection following could lead to regulatory penalties or non-compliance with Strategies to secure critical systems and introduction of new EU laws and regulations processes GDPR legislation Regular cybersecurity and privacy training for employees Attract, develop, Failure to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may Targeted recruitment and retention strategies engage and weaken our succession plans for critical positions in the deployed retain talented medium term.
Employee uncertainty as a result of, for Identification and active support of staff and capable example, Brexit or organisational change may result in a potentially impacted by Brexit employees lower level of employee engagement which could impact Development of our employees atalllevels productivity and turnover.
Both could adversely affect the Evolve our culture achievement of our strategic objectives Focus on simplification Legal, regulatory and compliance Safety and Patient safety is very important to us and we strive to Robust processes and systems in place to The number of new products efficacy of minimise the risks and maximise the benefits of our manage patient safety and efficacy trends as well in our marketed portfolio is marketed medicines.
Failure to do this could adversely impact our as externally reported risks through regulatory growing and is anticipated to products reputation, our business and the results of operations, and agencies and other parties.
This includes a increase further as our could lead to product liability claims comprehensive pharmacovigilance programme pipeline develops.
Our ability supplemented by close monitoring and review of to accurately assess the adverse events safety and efficacy of new products is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and relatively small clinical study patient samples Defence of Investigations or legal proceedings could be costly, divert Combined internal and external counsel product, pricing management attention or damage our reputation and management and practices demand for our products.
Unfavourable resolutions could litigation subject us to criminal liability, fines, penalties or other monetary or non-monetary remedies, adversely affecting our financial results Meet regulatory Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and Strong ethical and compliance culture Increasing government and and ethical regulations, including bribery and corruption legislation, Established compliance framework in place regulatory scrutiny and expectations may result in civil and or criminal legal proceedings and or including annual Code of Ethics training for all evolving compliance on commercial regulatory sanctions, fines or penalties, impacting financial employees challenges as complexity of practices, results Focus on due diligence and oversight of business relationships including bribery third-party engagements increases and corruption, and scientific exchanges Economic and financial Achieve strategic Failure to successfully implement our business strategy Focus on Growth Platforms and innovative Increasing challenge to plans and meet may frustrate the achievement of our financial or other science in three main therapy areas balance longand targets and targets or expectations.
This failure could, in turn, damage Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, short-term investments as expectations our reputation and materially affect our business, financial licensing and collaborations we navigate a period of loss position or results of operations Appropriate capital structure and balance sheet of exclusivity on key brands Portfolio-driven decision making process while seeking to maximise governed by senior executive-led committees the commercial potential of new product launches AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Risk Overview 73
