34 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key Principal risks and uncertainties No change L Low M Medium H High Strategic risks Changes to government policy Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate Movement in year Reduced funding for primary The Group proactively The Board monitors changes care premises expenditure engages with the Government in government policy and could lead to a reduction in over policy that could impact management reports to the our development pipeline the business, both directly Board at every meeting.
Net risk rating andgrowth prospects.
and through the Healthcare Committee of the British M Property Federation.
A change to the reimbursement mechanism for GPs could lead to a change in the risk profile ofour underlying tenants.
Comment STPs highlight the need for investment in the primary care estate, and all note that buildings will be an enabler of NHS transformation.
Government has committed to invest 10 billion in improving NHS buildings, which will include good value private sector funding.
Ministers have also launched a national strategic estates planning service for the NHS, designed to support STPs and to signpost options for funding and delivery of their local capital programme of projects.
The reimbursement mechanism is not currently under review.
The Groups Head of Public Affairs continues to make the case to the Government and the NHS for the benefit of investment in primary care infrastructure.
Competitor threat Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate Movement in year Increased competition from We maintain our specialist The Board receives regular Continuing use of our new purchasers could lead knowledge, team structure property reports, highlighting specialist expertise.
to a reduction in our ability to and strong brand recognition where we have lost to acquire new properties and with GPs, and focus heavily competitors and when new Net risk rating a general increase in prices on customer care.
Themarket is increasingly M competitive and every proposed transaction is reviewed by our Investment Committee to ensure that theprospective returns areadequate.
Comment A further significant increase in asset prices increases the risk of these returns not achieving our required level and our rate of acquisitions slowing significantly.
However, we have made substantial additions to our portfolio during the year.
While sector specialists and other low risk income focused funds continue to drive competition and pricing in the sector, our Investment Team maintains a pipeline of suitable investment opportunities.
Reduction in investor demand Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate Movement in year Reduced investor demand for We are open in The overall economy and The dividend yield and the UK primary care property communicating our strategy itsimpact on the Groups underlying strength of the could lead to a reduction in to investors and maintain operations are regularly cash flows supporting it asset valuations and a fall anLTV range which is assessed and considered in remain attractive relative Net risk rating in future profits.
M This could arise from: The Board receives regular Changes in NHS policy reports on investor relations and the development of our Health of the UK share register.
economy Availability of finance Relative attractiveness of other asset classes.
Comment The fundamentals for our sector remain very strong and the longevity and security of our cash flows have continued to generate strong investor demand for our shares in the past year.
The Group raised gross proceeds of 98.4 million through a placing in June 2017 and 310.7 million from a share issue in December 2017.
On both occasions we received strong support from both existing and new investors, reflecting the high level of support for the business and its current strategy.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 35 Key No change L Low M Medium H High Failure to communicate Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate Movement in year Failure to adequately Strategic priorities are clearly The Board receives regular Investor communication, communicate the articulated in corporate reports on investor attitudes particularly through face Companysstrategy and communications and the and the market.
toface meetings, remains explain performance may Groups performance is akeypriority.
Net risk rating result in anincreased transparently reported.
The Group maintains close disconnect between investors links with its two brokers, M perceptions ofvalue and We communicate regularly which communicate investor actual performance.
Comment 141 meetings have been held during the year.
The equity issues completed during the year were supported by both existing and new shareholders and regular communication with both existing and potential shareholders will remain a key priority for the year ahead.
Financial risks Reduction in availability and or increase in cost of finance Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate Movement in year A reduction in available The Group has a number of The Group regularly The Group actively engages financing could adversely long-term facilities which monitorsand manages with a range of funders to affect the Groups ability to reduce these refinancing risks.
itsrefinancing profile and ensure a breadth of funder source new funding and cash requirements.
Net risk rating refinance existing facilities.
We continue to explore M This could delay or prevent the financing options with other development of new premises.
lenders as well as maintaining strong relationships with existing lenders.
Increasing financing costs could increase the overall cost of debt to the Group and so reduce underlying profits.
Comment The current appetite for lending into the sector is very strong, given the quality of the underlying cash flows and, during the year, the Group increased its unsecured revolving credit facility from 200 million to 300 million and privately placed 150 million unsecured notes at attractive rates.
Failure to maintain capital structure and gearing Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate Movement in year Property valuations are Valuations and yields are The Group engages two It is possible to dispose inherently uncertain and regularly benchmarked against external valuers to review ofproperties to preserve subject to significant comparable portfolios.
covenants as certain facilities judgement.
Net risk rating All financial forecasting, The valuations are formally A fall in property values or including for new acquisitions, reviewed by the Board twice M income could adversely affect considers gearing and ayear.
Covenant headroom and Breach of covenants gearing are regularly couldlead to forced asset monitored with reference to disposals which could possible valuation movements reducethe Groups net and future expenditure.
The Board regularly reviews the capital structure of theGroup.
Comment LTV is currently at 26% and this provides generous covenant headroom.
36 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key Principal risks and uncertainties continued No change L Low M Medium H High Operational risks Development overspend Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate Movement in year Development risk could The Group has a dedicated A high level of due diligence We remain confident of our adversely impact the and experienced isundertaken before works ability to manage this risk performance of the Group as development team.
commence and detailed through our experienced a result of cost overruns and designs are negotiated team of development Net risk rating delays on new projects.
surveyors and reduce The Groups policy is to thepotential risk through engage in developments that M theuse of fixed price are substantially pre-let with Regular reviews are contracts and the use fixed price or capped price conducted of latest ofperformance bonds.
costestimates as each project progresses.
A performance bond insuresagainst the risk ofthemain contractor becoming insolvent.
Comment The potential impact of this has increased slightly during the year as the number of developments gathers momentum.
Our future development programme is more geared towards in-house development as opposed to forward funding commitments so increased scrutiny on JCT contract conditions and pre-contract due diligence is required in conjunction with our legal advisors.
Key staff dependency Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate Movement in year Failure to recruit, develop Competitive salary and Succession planning, team andretain staff and Directors benefit packages are aligned structure and skill sets with the right skills and with appropriate peer areregularly evaluated experience may result in groupsand periodically andplanned.
The appraisal process acts M Professional development asa two way discussion and training are encouraged forum to identify employee and costs are met by aspirations and any theGroup.
Succession plans are in place Any employee resignations for each department.
are reported at each Boardmeeting.
Long-term incentive plans span three-year periods to encourage retention of keystaff.
Comment Nine members of staff are currently working towards a professional qualification with three members of staff achieving ICSA, MRICS and ACIM qualifications inthe year.
We successfully recruited several qualified members of staff in the year.
Please see further details of our employee engagement on page 30.
com 37 Key No change L Low M Medium H High Underperformance of assets Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate Movement in year Not all rent reviews are The Group engages Leases are carefully reviewed The Group targets Retail upwards only and challenges experienced third parties on acquisition and the Group PriceIndex RPI reviews to reviews and appeals could toconduct rent reviews.
does not acquire any new fornewleases but if this lead to lack of rental growth.
leases with a tenant right isunachievable then open Net risk rating totrigger a downward market upwards only reviews rentreview.
or open market landlord M trigger only reviews areaccepted.
Loss of income could arise The strategic importance of a We are in regular contact with We liaise with GPs and NHS Movement in year from failing practices handing practice to its location is a key GPs to ensure there are no commissioning bodies to back GP contracts, losing the investment decision.
ensure continuing provision right to rent reimbursement, of services from that practice.
and becoming unable to meet GPs remain personally liable Net risk rating their financial obligations as named individuals under under the lease.
We review financial information provided by the M NHS on our tenants and as part of the acquisition duediligence.
Comment Approximately 28% of leases have fixed uplifts or are linked to RPI.
Less than 6% of leases have tenant ability to trigger a downward rent review.
There are very limited cases of GPs handing back medical contracts and we are in active discussion with the tenants and NHS commissioning bodies inthesecases.
