32 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management Effective risk management iscrucial in delivering our strategicobjectives.
We target above market, risk adjusted The Risk Committee met five times in the Risk management is the year, to review the risk register, identify returns in our chosen healthcare real responsibility of the Board, estate assets, by developing assets emerging risks and conduct deep dives into individual risks to ensure that sound ourselves as opposed to purchasing which sets the risk appetite onlycompleted developments and assurance is in place.
Staff were reminded and tolerances for the usingdebt to gear returns up to 50% of the whistleblowing hotline where LTV.
However, we seek to avoid, trap concerns overs risk management could business, determines the orheavily mitigate risks in all other beraised in confidence but none were nature and extent of the areasof the business, including: received.
Risk Committee projects in the year included reviews of payment principal risks the Company Property event risk by full insurance processes, the General Data Protection cover, full due diligence and committed Regulation GDPR, cyber security and is willing to take in achieving funds for acquisitions penetration testing, health and safety of its strategic objectives Development risk by only undertaking staff, prevention of tax evasion, fire risks developments where there is already an at properties following the Grenfell Tower andensures that risk agreement for lease in place with fixed disaster, and supplier staff conflicts.
management and internal price or capped price build contracts TheRisk Committee reports to the Audit Control risk by clear management Committee, which regularly monitors risk controls are embedded in controls and Board reporting management and internal control systems the businesss operations.
Gearing risk we maintain an and reports to the Board.
appropriate range of lenders and debt maturities with variable rate debt being The Board has carried out a robust restricted to an appropriate level assessment of the principal risks facing Political risk which could limit future the business.
These are the risks which growth but does not affect the current would threaten its business model, future business assets.
performance, solvency or liquidity and aresummarised on pages 34 to 37.
Strategic objective Focus Expertise Sustainability Effectiveness Changes to government policy Competitor threat Reduction in investor demand Failure to communicate Reduction in availability and or increase in cost of finance Failure to maintain capital structure and gearing Development overspend Key staff dependency Underperformance of assets Principal risk Operational Financial Strategic Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 33 The Board has also considered which of Specific sensitivities applied include Viability statement the Groups strategic objectives may be increases in interest rates 0.5% per In accordance with Provision C. 2.2 of the affected by these risks and its findings annum, a prolonged downturn in UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 areset out in the table on page 32. property investment valuations initially the Code, the Board has conducted 25 basis points, followed by further areview of the Companys current As during the previous financial year, negative movements, an increased position and principal risks to assess theRisk Committee, Audit Committee riskof tenant default and a sustained theCompanys longer-term viability.
and the Board considered the impact absence of rent review growth.
We ofBrexit on the business and again assume that debt facilities can be A five-year period is considered concluded, on the basis that the Group refinanced as required, although on a appropriate for this review as this isa wholly UK-based operation with no variable rate and with a margin above corresponds with the Companys reliance on exports, that Brexit did not, LIBOR in excess of what we currently strategic planning timeframe.
In addition, initself, constitute a significant risk to the pay.
All models showed compliance the long-term nature of the leases and business.
Cyber security was also kept withcovenants throughout the debt facilities supports an assessment under review and, given the upgrade to forecastperiod.
the IT systems the previous year and withcontinuing improvements to security This assessment has not assumed Company forecasts are prepared using and processes during the year, it was anysignificant changes to government a comprehensive financial model which considered that an appropriate level of policy with respect to NHS estates projects the income statement, balance risk mitigation was in place.
strategies or the GP reimbursement sheet, cash flows and key performance model, or any specific implications indicators over the relevant timeframe.
The model allows various assumptions to be applied and altered in respect of Based on this consideration of principal factors such as level of investment, risks and the forecasting exercise investment yield, availability and cost completed, the Board has a reasonable offinance, rental growth, and potential expectation that the Company will be movements of interest rates and able to continue in operation and meet property valuations.
its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period assessed.
The Board Having made reference to the principal considers that the long-term nature of risks facing the Company, as laid out the leases and financing arrangements onpages 34 to 37, sensitivities which in place means that the business model are considered severe but within the would remain viable in the event that realms of possibility have been applied further growth of the business was to the assumptions to review the notachieved.
potential impact on the Companys results and financial position.
