Risk Risks and uncertainties Operating in the pharmaceutical sector carries various inherent risks and uncertainties that may affect our business.
In this section, we describe the risks and uncertainties that we consider material to our business in that they may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results ofoperations, and or reputation.
These risks are not listed in any particular order of priority and have been categorised consistently with the Principal Risks detailed from page 72, which are included below along with the other risks that we face.
We believe that the forward-looking statements about AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identified by words such as anticipates, believes, expects and intends, and that include, among other things, Future prospects in the Financial Review on page 86, are based on reasonable assumptions.
However, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties such as those summarised below.
They relate to events that may occur in the future, that may be influenced by factors beyond our control and that may have actual outcomes materially different from our expectations.
Therefore, other risks, unknown or not currently considered material, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
Product pipeline and IP risks Impact Failure or delay in delivery of pipeline or launch of new products Our continued success depends on the development and successful launch of Failure or delay in development of new product candidates that achieve innovative new drugs.
the expected commercial success could frustrate the achievement of development targets, adversely affect the reputation of our R&D The development of pharmaceutical product candidates is a complex, risky and capabilities, and is likely to materially adversely affect our business and lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other resources.
A project may results of operations.
See also Failure to achieve strategic plans or fail at any stage of the process due to various factors, including failure to obtain the meet targets and expectations on page 229. required regulatory or marketing approvals for the product candidate or for its manufacturing facilities, unfavourable clinical efficacy data, safety concerns, failure to Since our business model and strategy rely on the success of relatively demonstrate adequate cost-effective benefits to regulatory authorities and or payers few compounds, the failure of any compound in our late-stage pipeline and the emergence of competing products.
More details of projects that have suffered or in-line products may have a significant negative effect on our setbacks or failures during 2018 can be found in the Therapy Area Review.
business or results of operations.
The anticipated launch dates of major new products significantly affect our business, Significant delays to anticipated launch dates of new products could including investment in large clinical studies, the manufacture of pre-launch product have a material adverse effect on our financial position and or results stocks, investment in marketing materials pre-launch, sales force training and the of operations.
For example, for the launch of products that are timing of anticipated future revenue streams from new Product Sales.
Launch dates are seasonal in nature, delays in regulatory approvals or manufacturing primarily driven by our development programmes and the demands from various difficulties may delay launch to the next season which, in turn, may factors, including adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical studies, regulatory significantly reduce the return on costs incurred in preparing for the demands, price negotiation, competitor activity and technology transfer.
More complex launch for that season.
Furthermore, in immuno-oncology for example, and stringent regulations govern the manufacturing and supply of biologics products, speed to market is critical given the large number of clinical trials being thus impacting the production and release schedules of such products more conducted by other companies.
In addition, a delayed launch may lead to increased costs if, for In addition to developing products in-house, we also expand our product portfolio and example, marketing and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or geographical presence through licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations, performed for longer than expected.
which are key to growing and strengthening our business.
The success of such Failure to complete collaborative projects in a timely, cost-effective arrangements is largely dependent on the technology and other IP rights we acquire or manner may limit our ability to access a greater portfolio of products, license, and the resources, efforts and skills of our partners.
Disputes or difficulties in IP, technology and shared expertise.
Disputes and difficulties with our our relationship with our collaborators or partners may arise, for example, due to partners may erode or eliminate the benefits of our alliances and conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest between parties.
In addition, failure to perform on the part of parties to In many cases we make milestone payments well in advance of the commercialisation externalisation transactions may diminish the future value of those of the products, with no assurance that we will recoup these payments.
transactions or, in some cases, allow a competitor to beat us to market with a similar or first-in-class product.
Delay of launch can also erode We experience strong competition from other pharmaceutical companies in respect of the term of patent exclusivity.
licensing arrangements, strategic collaborations, and acquisition targets.
Competition from other pharmaceutical companies means that we may be unsuccessful in implementing some of our intended projects or we may have to pay a significant premium over book or market values for our acquisitions.
220 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information Additional Information Product pipeline and IP risks Impact Difficulties in obtaining or maintaining regulatory drug approval for products We are subject to strict controls on the commercialisation processes for our Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals could delay our ability to pharmaceutical products, including their development, manufacture, distribution and market our products and may adversely affect our revenue.
The criteria for establishing safety, efficacy and quality, which are essential post-approval requirements, including additional clinical trials, could for securing marketing approvals, vary by country and by region.
Regulators can refuse result in increased costs, and may impact the labelling and approval to grant approval or may require additional data before approval is granted or as a status of currently marketed products.
post-approval commitment, even though the medicine may already be approved or With the UK planning to leave the EU by the end of March 2019, intense launched in other countries.
work is ongoing to manage Brexit related changes, identify scenarios Factors, including advances in science and technology, evolving regulatory science, for the many uncertainties still to be resolved, and determine the new new laws and policies, and different approaches to benefit risk tolerance by regulatory UK requirements moving forward.
This includes transferring licences authorities, the general public, and other third-party public interest groups are known and authorisations for EU markets currently held in the UK to an EU to influence the approvability of new drugs.
While we seek to manage most of these member state and building capability to test medicines in the EU for risks, unanticipated and unpredictable policymaking by governments and regulators, which such testing is currently undertaken in the UK.
UK licences also limited regulatory authority resources or conflicting priorities often lead to delays in need to be separated out from centrally approved products in the EU.
These actions are required to ensure appropriate regulatory requirements can be met both in the EU and UK post 29 March 2019.
We may be required to generate additional data after a drugs approval because a Based on our corporate planning assumptions for a no deal Brexit, with regulatory authority may have concerns that impact the benefit risk profile of the drug.
no transition period, the Company is taking steps to protect product For our marketed drugs, new data or meta-analyses have the potential to drive changes supply both in the UK and EU.
Changes in regulatory reviews and in the approval status or labelling.
In addition, recent years have seen an increase in approvals, and safety surveillance will certainly have implications on post-marketing regulatory requirements and commitments, an increased call for resources, ways of working and costs.
third-party access to regulatory and clinical trial data packages for independent analysis and interpretation, and broader data transparency.
Such transparency, while important, could lead to inappropriate or incorrect data analyses which may damage the integrity of our products and our Companys reputation.
Failure to obtain, defend and enforce effective IP protection and IP challenges by third parties A pharmaceutical product may be protected from being copied for a limited period Limitations on the availability of patent protection, the ability to obtain oftime under certain patent rights and or related IP rights, such as Regulatory Data related IP rights or the use of compulsory licensing in certain countries Protection or Orphan Drug status.
Typically, products protected by such rights in which we operate, as well as our ability to defend and enforce our generate significantly higher revenues than those not protected.
Our ability to obtain, patents, could allow for earlier entry of generic or biosimilar competitor maintain, defend and enforce patents and other IP rights in relation to our products is products.
This could have a material adverse effect on the pricing and an important element in protecting and recouping our investment in R&D and creating sales of our products and, consequently, could materially adversely long-term value for the business.
Some countries in which we operate do not offer affect our revenues.
This may be because IP laws are still developing, the scope of Third parties may be awarded remedies for alleged infringement of those laws is limited or the political environment does not support such legislation.
their IP, for example injunctions and damages for alleged patent Wealso recognise increasing use of compulsory licensing in some countries in infringement.
In the US, courts may order enhanced ie up to treble whichwe operate.
damages for alleged wilful infringement of patents.
From time to time We may also face challenges early in the patent application process and throughout a we may acquire licences, discontinue activities and or modify patents life.
The grounds for these challenges could be the validity of a patent and or processes to avoid claims of patent infringement.
These steps could its effective scope and are based on ever-evolving legal precedents.
We are entail significant costs and our revenue and margins could be experiencing increased challenges in the US and elsewhere in the world and there can materially adversely affected.
be no guarantee of success for either party in patent proceedings and litigation.
More information about protecting our IP, the risk of patent litigation We also bear the risk that our products may be found to infringe patents owned or and the early loss of IP rights is contained in the Intellectual Property licensed by third parties, including research-based and generic pharmaceutical section on page 35, the Competitive pressures including expiry or loss companies and individuals.
These third parties may seek remedies for patent of IP rights and generic competition risk on page 222 and Note 29 to infringement, including injunctions for example, preventing the marketing of one of our the Financial Statements from page 194. products and damages for example, research-based competitors are alleging infringement of their patents and are seeking damages in relation to our marketing of Imfinzi and Calquence.
Details of material patent proceedings and litigation matters can be found in Note 29 to the Financial Statements from page 194.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Risk 221 Risk continued Commercialisation risks Impact Competitive pressures including expiry or loss of IP rights, and generic competition A pharmaceutical product competes with other products marketed by research-based If we are not successful in obtaining, maintaining, defending or pharmaceutical companies and with generic or biosimilar drugs marketed by generic enforcing our exclusive rights to market our products, particularly drug manufacturers.
intheUS where we achieve our highest Product Sales, our revenue and margins could be materially adversely affected.
In addition, Generic versions of products, including biosimilars, are often sold at lower prices than unsuccessful assertion of our IP rights may lead to damages or other branded products, as the manufacturer does not have to recoup the significant cost of liabilities to third parties that could materially adversely affect our R&D investment and market development.
Expiry or loss of IP rights can materially financial performance.
adversely affect our revenues and financial condition due to the launch of cheaper generic copies of the product in the country where the rights have expired or been lost Approval of competitive products for the same or similar indication as see the table in the Patent Expiries of Key Marketed Products section from page 217. one of our products may result in immediate and significant decreases For example, in 2018 our US Product Sales of Crestor fell to $170 million 2017: $373 in our revenues.
million following the launch of generics.
Unfavourable resolution of current and potential future patent litigation Additionally, the expiry or loss of patents covering other innovator companies products may require us to make significant provisions in our accounts relating may also lead to increased competition and pricing pressure for our own, still-patented to legal proceedings and or could materially adversely affect our products in the same product class due to the availability of lower priced generic financial condition or results of operations.
products in that product class.
Generic manufacturers may also take advantage of the failure of certain countries to properly enforce Regulatory Data Protection or other related IP rights and may launch generics during this protected period.
This is a particular risk in some Emerging Markets where appropriate patent protection or other related IP rights may be difficult to obtain or enforce.
The biosimilars market has experienced notable growth since 2017, with approval of several monoclonal antibody biosimilars in the US and Europe.
This trend is expected to continue.
Increased regulatory and legal activity related to the launch and approval of these therapeutics is anticipated.
Regulatory authorities in other territories continue to implement or consider abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars, allowing quicker entry to market for such products and earlier than anticipated competition for patented biologics.
As well as facing generic competition upon expiry or loss of IP rights, we also face the risk that generic drug manufacturers seek to market generic versions of our products prior to expiries of our patents and or the Regulatory Exclusivity periods.
For example, we are currently facing challenges from numerous generic drug manufacturers regarding our patents relating to key products, including Symbicort, Brilinta, Faslodex and Farxiga.
IP rights protecting our products may be challenged by external parties.
We expect our most valuable products to receive the greatest number of challenges.
Despite our efforts to establish and defend robust patent protection for our products, we bear the risk that courts may decide that our IP rights are invalid and or that third parties do not infringe our asserted IP rights.
Where we assert our IP rights but are ultimately unsuccessful, third parties may seek damages, alleging, for example, that they have been inappropriately restrained from entering the market.
In such cases, we bear the risk that we incur liabilities to those third parties.
Details of material patent litigation matters can be found in Note 29 to the Financial Statements from page 194.
222 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact Price controls and reductions Most of our key markets have experienced the implementation of various cost control Due to these pricing pressures, there will continue to be downward or reimbursement mechanisms for pharmaceutical products.
pressure on prices globally that will challenge the profitability levels of products in particular markets.
In the US, there is significant pricing pressure driven by payer consolidation, restrictive reimbursement policies, and cost control tools, such as exclusionary formularies and Any future replacement, modification or repeal of the ACA, or any price protection clauses.
Many formularies employ generic first strategies and or significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting Medicare, require physicians to obtain prior approval for the use of a branded medicine where a Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidised health programmes in generic alternative exists.
These mechanisms can be used by payers to limit the use of the US, could adversely affect our business and financial results.
The branded products and put pressure on manufacturers to reduce net prices.
In addition, significant uncertainty about the future of the ACA, entitlement reform patients are seeing changes in the design of their health plan benefits and may and healthcare laws in general in the US could have a material adverse experience variation in how their plans cover their medications, including increases in effect on our results of operations, financial condition or business.
the out-of-pocket payments for their branded medications.
Patient out-of-pocket We expect that consolidation and integration of drug distributors, retail spending is generally in the form of a co-payment or co-insurance, but there is a pharmacy chains, private insurers, managed care organisations and growing trend towards high deductible health plans that require that patients pay the other purchasing organisations may continue to have an effect on full list price of their drugs and services until they meet certain out-of-pocket pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us.
The US political landscape continues to consider a range of legislative and regulatory proposals to address the high costs of prescription drugs as well as reforms The potential duplication of HTA evaluations could result in a delay to to the US healthcare system.
We face uncertainties due to federal legislative and times of reimbursement and patient access.
administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the The continued disparities in EU and US pricing systems could lead to provisions of the ACA.
Additionally, there may be modifications to Medicare and other marked price differentials between regions, which, by way of the government programmes, price transparency requirements, and policies aimed at implementation of existing or new reference pricing mechanisms, reducing drug list prices.
For more information, please see Pricing of medicines in the increases the pricing pressure affecting the industry.
The importation Marketplace section from page 11.
It is difficult to predict what specific proposals could of pharmaceutical products from countries where prices are low due to be enacted and to determine the implications for the healthcare system and government price controls, or other market dynamics, to countries pharmaceutical industry.
However, lowering drug costs remains a key campaign where prices for those products are higher, is already prevalent and promise of the current administration and proposals that would significantly modify may increase.
Strengthened collaboration by governments may existing laws and regulations, including coverage and reimbursement of drugs in accelerate the development of further cost-containment policies such government programmes and policies relating to drug pricing, could affect private as joint procurement.
Increased and simplified access to national and health insurance, coverage and reimbursement in Medicare, Medicaid and the health regional prices in markets and the publication of these prices in insurance exchange marketplaces, and other facetsof the US healthcare market, centralised databases have facilitated the uptake and efficiency of withpotentially significant impacts on the pharmaceutical industry.
price referencing across the world.
Ongoing scrutiny of the US pharmaceutical industry, focused largely on pricing, is placing increased emphasis on the value of medications.
This scrutiny will likely continue across many stakeholders, including policymakers and legislators.
In the US, consolidation among distributors, retail pharmacy chains and other purchasing organisations, including integration across the supply chain, creates concentration of credit risk and increasing potential for large integrated entities to exert more power in negotiations with AstraZeneca, which could result in margin erosion.
In Europe, the industry continues to be exposed to various ad hoc cost-containment measures and reference pricing mechanisms, which impact prices.
There is a trend towards increasing transparency and comparison of prices among EU Member States which may eventually lead to a change in the overall pricing and reimbursement landscape.
There is also a continued push across the EU to harmonise the Health Technology Assessment HTA review process.
This could lead to an environment in theEU where medicines undergo duplicate HTA evaluations, both at an EU level and acountry level, as it is unlikely organisations such as GBA in Germany or HAS in Francewould make changes to their systems.
In Emerging Markets, governments are increasingly controlling pricing in the self-pay sector and favouring locally manufactured drugs.
In addition, the emergence of price referencing has been seen in some markets combined with a call from authorities to provide greater global price transparency.
Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of HTA to provide a rigorous evaluation of the clinical efficacy of a product at, or post, launch.
HTA evaluations are also increasingly being used to assess the clinical effect, as well as cost-effectiveness, of products in a particular health system.
This comes as payers and policymakers attempt to increase efficiencies in the use and choice of pharmaceutical products.
A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and how pricing pressures areaffecting our business in our most important markets is set out in Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section from page 11 and on the next page in the following risk factor.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Risk 223 Risk continued Commercialisation risks Impact Economic, regulatory and political pressures Operating in over 100 countries, we are subject to political, socio-economic and Deterioration of, or failure to improve, socio-economic conditions, financial factors including foreign exchange movements both globally and in and situations and or resulting events, depending on their severity, individualcountries.
could adversely affect our supply and or distribution chain in the affected countries and the ability of customers or ultimate payers A sustained global economic downturn may further exacerbate pressure from to purchase our medicines.
This could adversely affect our business governments and other healthcare payers on medicine prices and volumes of sales in or results of operations.
response to pressures on budgets, and may cause a slowdown or a decline in growth in some markets.
Those most severely impacted by the economic downturn may seek While we have adopted cash management and treasury policies to alternative ways to settle their debts through, for example, the issuance of government manage the risk of not being able to access a sustainable flow of liquid bonds which might trade at a discount to the face value of the debt.
Other customers funds see the Financial risk management policies section of the may cease to trade, which may result in losses from writing off debts, or a reduction in Financial Review from page 86, we cannot be certain that these will be demand for products.
as effective as they are intended to be, in particular in the event of a global liquidity crisis.
In addition, open positions where we are owed We are highly dependent on being able to access a sustainable flow of liquid funds due money and investments we have made in financial and non-financial to the high fixed costs of operating our business and the long and uncertain institutions or money market funds cannot be guaranteed to be development cycles of our products.
In a sustained economic downturn, financial recoverable.
Additionally, if we need access to external sources of institutions with whom we deal may cease to trade and there can be no guarantee that financing to sustain and or grow our business, such as the debt or we will be able to access monies owed to us without a protracted, expensive and equity capital financial markets, this may not be available on uncertain process, if at all.
commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a severe and or sustained economic downturn.
This may, for instance, be the case in The majority of our cash investments are managed centrally and are invested in the event of any default by the Company on its debt obligations, which collateralised bank deposits, fixed income securities in government, financial and may materially adversely affect our ability to secure debt funding in the non-financial securities, and AAA credit-rated institutional money market funds.
Money future or our financial condition in general.
Further information on debt market funds are backed by institutions in the US, EU or elsewhere, which, in turn, funding arrangements is contained in the Financial risk management invest in other funds, including sovereign funds.
This means our credit exposure is a policies section of the Financial Review from page 86. mix of US, EU and rest of the world sovereign default risk, financial institution and non-financial institution default risk.
In addition, as set out in the next section, the UKs exit from the EU due to take place on 29 March 2019 could adversely impact the operation of the A number of our existing or future commercial or other agreements, such as financial system and the ability of financial institutions to perform certain borrowings, derivative financial instruments and commercial contracts, utilise or may activities and services upon which we rely.
utilise LIBOR or other similar rates as benchmark reference rates.
LIBOR and other benchmark reference rates are the subject of ongoing national and international regulatory reform, the result of which could see them partially or fully replaced by alternative reference rates, with potential adjustments or renegotiations being necessary to our agreements in respect of the commercial terms or mechanisms to set the reference rate.
Whilst different alternative reference rates could develop for different currencies and for different agreements, for example borrowings and derivative financial instruments, there is a risk that we fail to renegotiate our agreements.
Any combination of these could have an adverse effect on the cost, cash flows, value, return on and trading market of as appropriate our borrowings, derivative financial instruments, commercial and other agreements, and could increase our administrative burden if the transition to alternative rates is required or necessary by regulation or market practice.
Uncertainty and volatility in relation to the UKs planned exit from the EU On 23 June 2016, the UK held a referendum on the UKs continuing membership of the Until the Brexit negotiation process is completed, it is difficult to EU, the outcome of which was a decision for the UK to leave the EU Brexit.
On 29 anticipate the potential impact on our market share, sales, profitability March 2017, the UK Government formally notified the EU under Article 50 of the UKs and results of operations.
For example, it is possible in the immediate intention to leave the EU.
This notification began the process of negotiation that will aftermath of the UK leaving the EU that the capacity at major ports likely determine the future terms of the UKs relationship with the EU.
Absent a both in the UK and the EU is materially reduced for an indeterminate negotiated agreement, the UK will leave the EU on 29 March 2019 and relevant EU law period of time.
This could adversely affect our ability to transport and agreements will cease to apply.
medicines and raw materials intermediates to the EU and vice versa with a consequential adverse impact.
It is still too early to judge the full impact of Brexit.
While a draft Withdrawal Agreement has been agreed between the UK government and the European Commission, it is The longer-term effects of Brexit are difficult to predict but could unclear whether this will be ratified by the UK parliament in its current form, amended, include further financial instability and slower economic growth or or if the UK will leave the EU without a deal.
In the absence of a ratified agreement, it is economic downturn in the UK in particular, but also in Europe and the unclear what trading relationships the UK will have with the EU and other significant global economy.
Any restrictions on the movement of persons, trading partners after 29 March 2019 given the range of political and legal options deterioration in market access or trading terms, delay or restrictions to currently available including, for example, a no deal exit from the EU, extension or the movement of goods or increased cost and burdens in the form of recission of the Article 50 notice and a second referendum.
Brexit and implementation new or diverging rules and regulations may have a significant adverse of the resulting changes could materially and adversely affect the tax, tax treaty, impact on our operations, profitability and business model.
Further, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes as well as the macro-economic uncertainty around the form and timing of any withdrawal agreement environment in which the Group operates.
Since the referendum, global markets and and the form and timing of any post-withdrawal trading arrangements foreign exchange rates have experienced increased volatility, including a decline in the whether with the EU or third parties could increase volatility and lead value of pound sterling as compared to the euro and US dollar.
Upon leaving the EU, to adverse effects on the economy of the UK, other parts of Europe among other things, the UK could lose access to the single EU market, travel between and the rest of the world, which in turn could have an adverse the UK and EU countries could be restricted and border checks or other regulatory economic impact on our operations.
constraints may impede the free movement of goods.
Our workforce, and in turn our ability to recruit and retain talent, could be impacted by anyrestrictions on the movement of persons as 3.9% of our employees in the UK are citizens of EU countries other than the UK.
We could face new and greater costs and challenges if UK regulations and policies that govern our business diverge from those of the EU, or if there is any other new or increased friction in our trading environment.
224 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact Failures or delays in the quality and execution of our commercial strategies Commercial success of our products and markets, including the development of Failure to execute our commercial strategies could materially adversely growth markets, is a critical factor in sustaining or increasing global Product Sales impact our business or results of operations.
and replacing lost Product Sales due to patent expiry.
The successful launch If a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales of a new pharmaceutical product involves substantial investment in sales and growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we may be unable marketing activities, launch stocks and other items.
We may ultimately be unable to to fully recoup the costs incurred in launching it, which could materially achieve commercial success for various reasons, including difficulties in manufacturing adversely affect our business or results of operations.
sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialisation in a timely manner, the impact of price control measures imposed by governments Due to the complexity of the commercialisation process for biologics, and healthcare authorities, the outcome of negotiations with third-party payers, the methods of distributing and marketing biologics could materially erosion of IP rights, including infringement by third parties, failure to show a adversely impact our revenues from the sales of biologic medicines, differentiated product profile and changes in prescribing habits.
such as Synagis and FluMist Fluenz.
The commercialisation of biologics is often more complex than for small molecule The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in Emerging pharmaceutical products, primarily due to differences in the mode of administration, Markets or materialisation of the risks and challenges of doing technical aspects of the product, and rapidly changing distribution and business in such markets, including inadequate protection against reimbursement environments.
crime including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud or inadvertent breaches of local and international law may materially adversely affect We face particular challenges in Emerging Markets, including: our reputation, business or results of operations.
More volatile economic conditions and or political environments.
Integration processes relating to strategic transactions may also result Competition from multinational and local companies with existing market presence.
in business disruption, diversion of management resources, the loss of Difficulties enforcing and protecting IP.
key employees and other issues, such as a failure to integrate IT and Inadequate protection against crime including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud.
The need to impose developed market compliance standards.
The need to meet a more diverse range of national regulatory, clinical, manufacturing Incurrence of significant debt or liabilities due to the integration of an and distribution requirements.
acquired business could cause deterioration in our credit rating and Potential inadvertent breaches of local and international law and the need to manage result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
We may sanctions and other restrictions that may be imposed in each jurisdiction.
issue additional shares to pay for acquired businesses, which would Recruitment of appropriately skilled and experienced personnel.
result in the dilution of the rights of our then existing shareholders.
Difficulty in identifying the most effective sales and marketing channels and routes tomarket.
Intervention by local or national governments, or regulators, restricting market access and or introducing adverse price controls.
Difficulty in managing local partnerships such as co-promotion and co-marketing, in terms of performance, and adherence to AstraZenecas compliance standards which are often higher than the market norm.
Difficulties in cash repatriation due to strict foreign currency controls, risk of material currency devaluation and lack of hard currency reserves in some Emerging Markets.
Complexity derived from direct exports to countries where we do not have a legal entity.
We may also seek to acquire complementary businesses or enter into other strategic transactions.
The integration of an acquired business could involve incurring significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities, as well as having a negative effect on our reported results of operations from acquisition-related charges, amortisation of expenses related to intangibles and charges for the implementation of long-term assets.
The integration of new businesses with our own could result in .
We may also experience difficulties in integrating geographically separated organisations, systems and facilities, and personnel with different organisational cultures.
Disputes or difficulties in our relationship with our collaborators or partnersmay also arise, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest between parties.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Risk 225 Risk continued Supply chain and business execution risks Impact Failure to maintain supply of compliant, quality products We may experience difficulties, delays and interruptions in the manufacturing and Difficulties with manufacturing and supply, forecasting, distribution or supply of our products for various reasons, including: third-party suppliers may result in product shortages, which may lead to lost Product Sales and materially adversely affect our reputation Demand significantly in excess of forecast demand, which may lead to supply andrevenues.
Even slight variations in components or any part of the shortages this is particularly challenging before launch.
manufacturing process may lead to a product that is non-compliant Supply chain disruptions, including those due to natural or man-made disasters at and does not meet quality standards.
This could lead to recalls, oneof our facilities, at a critical supplier or vendor, or during transit.
spoilage, product shortage, regulatory action and or reputationalharm.
Delays in construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our products particularly as the Failure to comply with all manufacturing regulations can result in complexities associated with biologics facilities, especially for drug substances, negative regulatory inspection findings leading to manufacturing increase the probability of delay.
cessation, product seizure, debarment or recalls which could have The inability to supply products due to a product quality failure or regulatory amaterial adverse effect on our business, financial condition and compliance action such as licence withdrawal, product recall or product seizure.
Other manufacturing or distribution problems, including changes in manufacturing production sites, limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced, or physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact continuous and adequate supply.
As with the rest of the pharmaceutical industry, we work in a heavily regulated environment.
It is necessary for us to meet all regulations, including compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices GMP and Good Distribution Practices GDP and comparable regulatory dossier conditions of approval in other countries in which our products are licensed, manufactured or sold.
Regulatory agencies periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities to evaluate compliance with applicable requirements and may identify potential deficiencies.
We increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply of goods, such as raw materials for example, the API in some of our medicines and drug substances and or finished drug products for some of our biologic medicines, equipment, formulated drugs and packaging, critical product components and services, all of which are key to our operations.
Many of these goods are difficult to substitute in a timely manner or at all.
We expect that external capacity for biologics drug substance production will remain constrained for the next few years and, accordingly, may not be readily available for supplementary production in the event that we experience an unforeseen need for such capacity.
Illegal trade in our products The illegal trade in pharmaceutical products is widely recognised by industry, Public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products as non-governmental organisations and governmental authorities to be increasing.
Illegal a result of illegal trade could materially adversely affect our reputation trade includes counterfeiting, theft and illegal diversion that is, when our products are and financial performance.
In addition, undue or misplaced concern found in a market where we did not send them and where they are not approved or not about this issue may cause some patients to stop taking their permitted allowed to be sold.
There is a risk to public health when illegally traded medicines, with consequential risks to their health.
Authorities may products enter the supply chain, as well as associated financial risk.
Authorities and the take action, financial or otherwise, if they believe we are liable for public expect us to help reduce opportunities for illegal trade in our products through breaches in our own supply chains.
securing our supply chains, surveillance, investigation and supporting legal action There is also a direct financial loss when, for example, counterfeit and against those found to be engaged in illegal trade.
or illegally diverted products replace sales of genuine products in a market or genuine products are recalled following discovery of counterfeit products.
Reliance on third-party goods and services AstraZeneca spends approximately $10 billion each year with trade suppliers.
The The failure of outsource providers to deliver timely services, and to the spend supports the length of our value chain from discovery to manufacture and required level of quality, or the failure of outsource providers to commercialisation of our medicines.
co-operate with each other, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
Moreover, the failure of Many of our business-critical operations, including certain R&D processes, IT systems, these third parties to operate in an ethical manner could adversely HR, finance, tax and accounting services have been outsourced to third-party impact our reputation, both internally and externally, or even result in providers.
We are therefore heavily reliant on these third parties not just to deliver non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
timely and high quality services, but also to comply with applicable laws and regulations and adhere to our ethical business expectations of third-party providers.
Our business and financial results could also be materially adversely affected by disruptions caused by our failure to successfully manage either the integration of outsourced services or the transition process of insourcing services from third parties.
226 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information Additional Information Supply chain and business execution risks Impact Failure of information security, data protection and cybercrime We are dependent on effective IT systems.
These systems support key business Any significant disruption to these IT systems including breaches of functions such as our R&D, manufacturing, supply chain and sales capabilities.
They data security or cybersecurity, failure to integrate new and existing IT provide an important means of safeguarding and communicating data, including systems or failure to comply with additional requirements under the critical or sensitive information, the confidentiality and integrity of which we rely on.
We GDPR and other applicable laws, could harm our reputation and also rely on the effectiveness of our internal policies, controls and procedures to materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information held on our IT operations.
systems, as well as the effectiveness of our due diligence of, and ongoing oversight While we invest heavily in the protection of our data and IT, we may be over, third-party vendors who hold or have access to our data.
In addition, we must unable to prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems or failures of ensure that the personal data which we, or third-party vendors operating on our behalf, our cybersecurity policies, controls or procedures.
Any such hold and process is protected in a manner that complies with the GDPR which entered breakdown, breach or failure could result in disclosure of confidential into force in May 2018. or other sensitive information, damage to our reputation, regulatory Examples of sensitive information that we protect include clinical trial records patient penalties, or sanctions, financial losses and or other costs.
names and treatments, personal information employee bank details, home address, The inability to effectively back up and restore data could lead to IP related to manufacturing process and compliance, key research science techniques, permanent loss of data that could in turn result in non-compliance with AstraZeneca property ie, from theft and privileged access rights to perform IT tasks.
applicable laws and regulations, and otherwise harm our business.
The size and complexity of our IT systems and cloud utilisation, and those of our We and our vendors could be susceptible to third-party or internal third-party vendors including outsource and Software as a Service SaaS providers attacks on our information security systems.
Such attacks are of with whom we contract, have significantly increased over the past decade.
Such ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and systems are potentially vulnerable to service interruptions and security breaches from individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including attacks by malicious third parties, or from intentional or inadvertent actions by our organised criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states, employees and employees or vendors.
From time to time we experience intrusions, including as a Significant changes in the business footprint and the implementation of the IT strategy, result of computer-related malware.
We may be unable to ward off including the creation and use of captive offshore Global Technology Centres, could such attacks which could have an adverse effect on our business.
lead to temporary loss of capability.
Although we maintain cybersecurity insurance, there can be no We increasingly use the internet, digital content, social media, mobile applications, the assurance that our insurance coverage limits will protect against any internet of things IoT, and other forms of new technology to communicate internally future claim or that such insurance proceeds will be paid to us in a and externally.
The accessibility and instantaneous nature of interactions with such timely manner.
media may facilitate or exacerbate the risk of unauthorised data loss from within Inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could lead to the AstraZeneca.
It may also lead to false or misleading statements being made about unauthorised or unintentional public disclosure of sensitive information AstraZeneca, which may damage our reputation, brand image or goodwill.
As existing such as personally identifiable information on employees, healthcare social media platforms expand and evolve, and new social media platforms emerge, it professionals or patients, such as those enrolled in our clinical trials, becomes increasingly challenging to identify new points of entry and to put structures which may damage our reputation, adversely affect our business or in place to secure and protect sensitive information.
results of operations and expose us to legal risks and or additional The GDPR and similar privacy legislation being passed in various jurisdictions globally legal obligations.
Similarly, the involuntary public disclosure of introduce the obligation to report data protection breaches, whether intentional or commercially sensitive information, or an information loss, could inadvertent, to regulators and affected individuals within expedited timeframes.
Such adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, expedited reporting, often before the nature and impact of a data breach can be fully negative posts or comments about us or, for example, the safety of our understood, could potentially cause reputational damage and a loss of public trust that products on social media websites or other digital channels could ultimately may be disproportionate to the extent of the breach.
harm our reputation, brand image or goodwill.
Failure of critical processes Unexpected events and or events beyond our control could result in the failure of Failure of critical processes may result in an inability to research, critical processes within the Company or at third parties on whom we are reliant.
manufacture or supply products to patients.
AstraZeneca has The business faces threats to business continuity from many directions.
Examples developed a Business Resilience framework which is designed to of material threats include: mitigate such risks.
However, there is no guarantee that these measures will be sufficient to prevent business interruption.
This may Disruption to our business or the global markets if there is instability in a particular expose the Company to litigation and or regulatory action which may geographic region, including as a result of war, terrorism, pandemics, armed conflicts, result in fines, loss of revenue and adversely affect the Companys riots, unstable governments, civil insurrection or social unrest.
Natural disasters in areas of the world prone to extreme weather events and earthquakes.
Cyber threats similar to those detailed in the Failure of information security, data protection and cybercrime section above.
Any expected gains from productivity initiatives are uncertain We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and restructuring Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost-reduction programmes with the aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency of the business.
measures, either through the successful implementation of employee However, anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these programmes are relations processes including consultation, engagement, talent based on estimates and the actual savings may vary significantly or may not be management, recruitment and retention, or the possibility that these achieved at all.
In particular, these cost-reduction measures are often based on current efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could conditions and cannot always take into account any future changes to the materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
pharmaceutical industry or our operations, including new business developments or wage or price increases.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Risk 227 Risk continued Supply chain and business execution risks Impact Failure to attract and retain key personnel, and engage successfully with our employees We rely heavily on recruiting and retaining talented employees with a diverse range of The inability to attract and retain highly-skilled personnel may weaken skills and capabilities to meet our strategic objectives.
our succession plans for critical positions in the medium term, may materially adversely affect the implementation of our strategic We face intense competition for well-qualified individuals, as the supply of people with objectives and could ultimately impact our business or results of specific skills and significant leadership potential or in specific geographic regions may operations.
be limited, and in the UK the added uncertainty created by Brexit could impact the hiring and retention of staff in some business-critical areas.
Failure to engage effectively with our employees could lead to business disruption in our day-to-day operations, reduce levels of productivity The successful delivery of our business objectives is dependent on high levels of and or increase levels of voluntary turnover, all of which could ultimately engagement, commitment and motivation of the workforce.
In January 2019, we announced materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
organisational changes to support continued scientific innovation and commercial success as we enter the next phase in our strategic development.
Such changes may increase levels of employee uncertainty leading to lower levels of engagement.
Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Impact Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations Our many business operations are subject to a wide range of laws, rules and Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations: manage regulations from governmental and non-governmental bodies around the world.
our liabilities: or to adequately anticipate or proactively manage emerging policy and legal developments could materially adversely Any failure to comply with these applicable laws, rules and regulations may result in us affect our licence to operate or results of operations: adversely affect being investigated by relevant agencies and authorities and or in legal proceedings our reputation: cause harm to people or the environment: and or lead being filed against us.
Such investigations or proceedings could result in us becoming to fines or other penalties.
subject to civil or criminal sanctions and or being forced to pay fines or damages.
Relevant authorities have wide-ranging administrative powers to deal with any failure to For example, once a product has been approved for marketing by the comply with continuing regulatory oversight and this could affect us, whether such regulatory authorities, it is subject to continuing control and regulation, failure is our own or that of our contractors or external partners.
Moreover, such laws, such as the manner of its manufacture, distribution, marketing and rules and regulations are subject to change.
If regulatory issues concerning compliance with environmental, current Good Manufacturing Practice or safety Material examples of statutes, rules and regulations impacting business operations include: monitoring regulations for pharmaceutical products often referred to as pharmacovigilance arise, this could lead to product recalls, loss of Compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice.
product approvals and seizures, and interruption of production, which Local, national and international environmental and occupational health and safety could create product shortages and delays in new product approvals, laws and regulations.
and negatively impact patient access.
As another example, violation of Trade control laws governing our imports and exports including nationally and laws, rules, regulations or policies in countries subject to trade and internationally recognised trade agreements, embargoes, trade and economic economic sanctions could lead to loss of import or export privileges, sanctions and anti-boycott requirements.
civil or criminal penalties for us or our employees, or potential Competition laws and regulations, including challenges from competition authorities reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our and private damages actions.
results of operations, financial condition or business.
Rules and regulations established to promote ethical supply chain management.
Financial regulations including, but not limited to, external financial reporting, taxation and money laundering.
Disclosure of payments to healthcare professionals under the Sunshine Act and EFPIA legislation.
Appropriate disclosure of community support, patient group support and product donations.
Compliance with human rights and appropriate environmental practices of third-party contractors around the world including with, but not limited to, the conflict minerals rule in the US, and the UK Modern Slavery Act.
We have environmental and or occupational health and safety-related liabilities at some current, formerly owned, leased and third-party sites.
For more information on the most significant of these and for details on other significant litigation matters, please refer to Note 29 to the Financial Statements from page 194.
Safety and efficacy of marketed products is questioned Our ability to accurately assess, prior to launch, the eventual safety or efficacy of a new Serious safety concerns or adverse events relating to our productscould product once in broader clinical use can only be based on data available at that time, lead to product recalls, seizures, loss of product approvals, declining sales which is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and and interruption of supply and could materially adversely impact patient relatively small clinical study patient samples.
access, our reputation and financial revenues.
Any unforeseen safety concerns or adverse events relating to our products or failure to Significant product liability claims could also arise which could be comply with laws, rules and regulations relating to provision of appropriate warnings costly, divert management attention, or damage our reputation and concerning the dangers and risks of our products that result in injuries could expose us demand for our products.
to large product liability damages claims, settlements and awards, particularly in the Unfavourable resolution of such current and similar future product US.
Adverse publicity relating to the safety of a product or of other competing products liability claims could subject us to enhanced damages, consumer fraud may increase the risk of product liability claims.
and or other claims, including civil and criminal governmental actions, Details of material product liability litigation matters can be found in Note 29 to the require us to make significant provisions in our accounts relating to Financial Statements from page 194. legal proceedings, and could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, particularly where such circumstances are not covered by insurance.
For more information, see the limited third party insurance coverage risk on page 230.
228 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information Additional Information Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Impact Adverse outcome of litigation and or governmental investigations We may be subject to various product liability, consumer, commercial, anti-trust, Governmental investigations, for example under the US Foreign environmental, employment or tax litigation or other legal proceedings and Corrupt Practices Act or federal or state False Claims Acts or other governmental investigations.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently types of legal proceedings, regardless of their outcome, could be unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards for damages can result from an adverse costly, divert management attention, or damage our reputation and verdict.
In many cases, plaintiffs may claim enhanced damages in extremely high demand for our products.
Unfavourable resolution of current and amounts.
In particular, the marketing, promotional, clinical and pricing practices of similar future proceedings against us could subject us to criminal pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact liability, fines, penalties or other monetary or non-monetary remedies, with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject to extensive regulation, litigation including enhanced damages, require us to make significant provisions and governmental investigation.
Many companies, including AstraZeneca, have been in our accounts relating to legal proceedings and could materially subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental adversely affect our business or results of operations.
authorities and private payers and consumers, which have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences.
Note 29 to the Financial Statements from page 194 describes the material legal proceedings in whichwearecurrently involved.
Failure to adhere to increasingly stringent anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation There remains an increased global focus on the implementation and enforcement of Despite taking measures to prevent breaches of applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation.
anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws by our personnel and associated third parties, breaches may still occur, potentially resulting Two relevant pieces of legislation include the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign in the imposition of significant penalties, such as fines, the Corrupt Practices Act, and many other countries where we operate are also enforcing requirement to comply with monitoring or self-reporting obligations, their own laws more aggressively and or adopting tougher new measures.
There has or debarment or exclusion from government sales or reimbursement also been an increase in co-operation and co-ordination between regulators across programmes, any of which could materially adversely affect our countries with respect to investigation and enforcement.
reputation, business or results of operations.
We have been the subject of anti-corruption investigations and there can be no assurance that we will not, from time to time, be subject to informal enquiries and formal investigations from governmental agencies.
In the context of our business, governmental officials interact with us in various roles that are important to our operations, such as in the capacity of a regulator, partner or healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, amongst others.
To the extent we are the subject of any such pending and material matters, details are included in Note 29 to the Financial Statements from page 194.
Economic and financial risks Impact Failure to achieve strategic plans or meet targets and expectations From time to time, we communicate our business strategy or our targets or There can be no guarantee that our financial targets or expectations will expectations regarding our future financial or other performance for example, the materialise on the expected timeline or at all.
Actual results may deviate expectations described in Future prospects in the Financial Review on page 86. materially and adversely from any such target or expectation, including if Allsuch statements are of a forward-looking nature and are based on assumptions one or more of the assumptions or judgements underlying any such andjudgements we make, all of which are subject to significant inherent risks and target or expectation proves to be incorrect in whole or inpart.
uncertainties, including those that we are unaware of and or that are beyond Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy, whether ourcontrol.
determined by internal or external risk factors, may frustrate the achievement of our financial or other targets or expectations and, in turn, materially damage our brand and materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.
Failure in financial control or the occurrence of fraud Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and Significant resources may be required to remediate any lapse or are designed to prevent and detect fraud.
Lapses in controls and procedures could deficiency in internal controls.
undermine the ability to prevent fraud or provide accurate disclosure of financial Any such deficiency may also trigger investigations by a number of information on a timely basis.
Testing of our internal controls can provide only organisations, for example, the SEC, the DOJ or the UK Serious Fraud reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial Office and may result in fines being levied against Group individual statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements or fraud.
Serious fraud may lead to potential prosecution or even imprisonment of senior management.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Risk 229 Risk continued Economic and financial risks Impact Unexpected deterioration in the Group's financial position A wide range of financial risks could result in a material deterioration in the Groups Movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies financial position.
into US dollars may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
Some of our subsidiaries import and export As a global business, currency fluctuations can significantly affect our results of goods and services in currencies other than their own functional operations, which are reported in US dollars.
Approximately 33% of our global 2018 currency, and so the financial results of such subsidiaries could be Product Sales were in the US, which is expected to remain our largest single market for affected by currency fluctuations arising between the transaction and the foreseeable future.
Product Sales in other countries are predominantly in currencies settlement dates.
In addition, there are foreign exchange differences other than the US dollar, including Chinese renminbi, the euro, Japanese yen and arising on the translation of investments in subsidiaries.
We have significant investments in goodwill and intangible assets as a Our consolidated balance sheet contains significant investments in intangible assets, result of our acquisitions of various businesses and our purchases of including goodwill.
The nature of the pharmaceutical business is high risk and requires certain assets, such as product development and marketing rights.
that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to develop a successful Impairment losses may materially adversely affect our financial portfolio of approved products.
Our ability to realise value on these significant condition or results of operations.
Details of the carrying values of investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals, goodwill and intangible assets, and the estimates and assumptions we market acceptance, competition and legal developments.
As such, in the course of our make in our impairment testing, are included in Notes 8 and 9 to the many acquisitions and R&D activities, we expect that some of our intangible assets will Financial Statements from page 168. become impaired and be written off at some time in the future.
Financial liabilities arising due to product liability or other litigation, in Inherent variability of biologics manufacturing increases the risk of write-offs of these respect of which we do not have insurance coverage, or if an insurers product batches.
Due to the value of the materials used, the carrying amount of denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, could require us to make biologic products is much higher than that of small molecule products.
As we significant provisions relating to legal proceedings and could materially continue to grow our biologics business, we also increase the risk of potential adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
For more information, please see the Adverse outcome of litigation The costs associated with product liability litigation have increased the cost of, and and or governmental investigations risk on page 229. narrowed the coverage afforded by, pharmaceutical companies product liability insurance.
To contain insurance costs, as of February 2006, we adjusted our product The resolution of tax disputes regarding the profits to be taxed in liability coverage profile, accepting uninsured exposure above $100 million.
In addition, individual territories can result in a reallocation of profits between where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny jurisdictions and an increase or decrease in related tax costs, and has coverage on various grounds.
For example, product liability litigation cases relating to the potential to affect our cash flows, EPS and post-tax earnings.
Farxiga and Nexium in the US are not covered by third-party product liability insurance.
Claims, regardless of their merits or their outcome, are costly, divert See Note 29 to the Financial Statements from page 194 for details.
management attention and may adversely affect our reputation.
The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce conflicting claims from If any double tax treaties are withdrawn or amended, especially in a revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual countries.
The majority of territory where a member of the AstraZeneca Group is involved in a the jurisdictions in which we operate have double tax treaties with other foreign taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border jurisdictions, which provide a framework for mitigating the incidence of double taxation transactions, such withdrawal or amendment could materially on our revenues and capital gains.
adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax dispute or a failure by tax authorities The Group's worldwide operations are taxed under laws in the jurisdictions in which to agree through competent authority proceedings.
Changes to the they operate.
International standards governing the global tax environment regularly application of double tax treaties, as a result of the parent company of change.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD has the Group no longer being an EU entity following Brexit, could also proposed a number of changes under the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS result in adverse consequences such as those described above.
See Action Plans which are now being progressively implemented by tax authorities the Financial risk management policies section of the Financial Review around the world.
on page 86 for tax risk management policies and Note 29 to the Our defined benefit pension obligations are largely backed by assets invested across Financial Statements from page 194 for details of current tax disputes.
Our most significant obligations relate to defined benefit Changes in tax regimes, such as those relating to the US federal tax pension funds in the UK, Sweden and the US.
The largest obligation is in the UK.
regime which were effective from 1 January 2018, could result in a material impact on the Group's cash tax liabilities and tax charge, resulting in either an increase or a reduction in financial results depending upon the nature of the change.
We represent views to the OECD, governments and tax authorities through public consultations to ensure international institutions and governments understand the business implications of proposed law changes.
Specific OECD BEPS recommendations that we expect to impact the Group include changes to patent box regimes, restrictions of interest deductibility and revised transfer pricing guidelines.
Sustained falls in asset values could reduce pension fund solvency levels, which may result in requirements for additional cash, restricting the cash available for our business.
Changes to funding regulations for defined benefit pensions may also result in a requirement for additional cash contributions by the Group.
If the present value of the liabilities increases due to a sustained low interest rate environment, an increase in expectations of future inflation, or an improvement in member longevity above that already assumed, this could also reduce pension fund solvency ratios.
The likely increase in the IAS 19 accounting deficit generated by any of these factors may cause the credit rating agencies to review our credit rating, with the potential to negatively affect our ability to raise debt and the price of new debt issuances.
See Note 21 to the Financial Statements from page 178 for further details of the Groups pension obligations.
230 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information
