Principal risks and uncertainties Identify, evaluate and manage the Groups risks Relevant Principal risk Impact Changes in the year Key mitigations focus areas Change The Board has carried out a robust 1.
A contraction in the number of new or used As we anticipated, new car sales have fallen We monitor new and used car transactions closely, using data 1 2 3 assessment of the principal risks facing the cartransactions could lead to consolidation during this financial year, and the used car from SMMT and now also data directly from the DVLA.
Economy, market and 4 5 6 Group, including those that would threaten of retailers and a reduction of retailers market has also seen declines of around 3%.
business environment We have developed the AutoTrader Retail Price Index to monitor its business model, future performance, advertising spend.
It could also lead to a However, the overall UK car parc has the pricing trends of used cars by trade sellers.
reduction in manufacturers spend on digital solvency or liquidity.
continued to grow as the number of cars display advertising.
We continue to diversify into related and adjacent activities to registered still outweighs the number of This included an assessment of the likelihood reduce our reliance on stock and to improve the resilience of There are concerns about the implications cars that are scrapped each year.
and impact of each risk identified, and the surrounding the UKs departure from the The number of retailer forecourts has mitigating actions being taken.
Risk levels EU as economic conditions, currency volatility We closely manage our cost base and operate on a lean basis, remained relatively flat.
and consumer confidence levels could all and would be able to respond swiftly in the event of a downturn.
were modified to reflect the current view be adversely affected.
If the prices of cars of the relative significance of each risk.
The Board has considered the potential implications of the UKs increase, consumer confidence levels departure from the EU, taking into account the factors above, as well decrease, and manufacturers appetite The principal risks and uncertainties identified as the time lag between the registration of new cars and the entry to supply cars to the UK market reduces, are detailed herein.
Additional risks and of cars into the used car marketplace and the strength of our value this could have an adverse impact on proposition, and does not consider that there will be a significant uncertainties to the Group, including those our business.
that are not currently known or that the Group currently deems immaterial, may individually 2.
Our brand is one of our biggest assets.
Our Our research shows that AutoTrader We have a clear and open culture with a focus on trust 1 2 3 or cumulatively also have a material effect on research shows that we are the most trusted has 91% prompted brand awareness with and transparency.
Brand 4 5 6 the Groups business, results of operations automotive classified brand in the UK, with consumers for new and used cars and is We have a dedicated customer security team, who closely monitor and or financial condition.
nearly 10 times more consumers claiming to consistently voted as the most influential our site to identify and quickly remove fraudulent or misleading trust AutoTrader over our nearest competitor.
automotive website by consumers in the adverts.
Failure to maintain and protect our brand, We invest in new and innovative marketing campaigns and new ways Focus areas relevant to our risks or any negative publicity that affects our We have seen a significant reduction in of engaging car buyers to continue to maintain brand awareness, reputation for example, a data breach, fraudulent and misleading adverts, due Improve car buying in the UK and to change perceptions of AutoTrader to be a destination for could diminish the confidence that retailers, to additional measures and monitoring Increase consumer audience, advert views new cars as well as used.
1 consumers and advertisers have in our techniques used by our security team.
and use of our valuation tools products and services, and result in a Our approach to cyber security and data protection, as described on Promote trust and fairness in the marketplace reduction in audience and revenue.
page 36, helps to protect us from the adverse impact of a significant 2 data breach or cyber attack.
Evolve the automotive ecosystem in the UK 3 Grow ARPR in a balanced, sustainable way 3.
There are a number of online competitors in The competitive landscape continues We have the largest and most engaged audience of any UK 1 2 3 by creating value for our customers the motor classified market, and alternative to develop, with new business models automotive site.
Our investment in brand as described above helps us Increased 4 5 6 4 Extend the penetration of products outside routes for consumers to sell cars, such as emerging.
to protect and grow our audience, to ensure that we remain the most competition of our core classified proposition auctions or part-exchange.
influential website a consumer visits when purchasing a vehicle.
Big media players are also entering the 5 E nhance our relevance and value to manufacturers Competitors could develop superior marketplace, mostly competing for We have a dedicated competitors guild to closely monitor consumer experiences or retailer products lower-value private sales.
Become the most admired digital business that we are unable to replicate: or change Operate a simpler, leaner and more We continue to invest in and develop our product offering to improve 6 focus to try to expand their range of stock data-oriented business the value we offer to consumers, retailers and manufacturers.
and disrupt our market position.
We work in an agile way and can respond quickly to emerging Our strategy This could impact our ability to grow revenue page 20 competitive threats.
due to the loss of audience or customers, or erosion of our paid-for business model.
34 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key performance indicators page 22 Relevant Principal risk Impact Changes in the year Key mitigations focus areas Change 1.
A contraction in the number of new or used As we anticipated, new car sales have fallen We monitor new and used car transactions closely, using data 1 2 3 cartransactions could lead to consolidation during this financial year, and the used car from SMMT and now also data directly from the DVLA.
Economy, market and 4 5 6 of retailers and a reduction of retailers market has also seen declines of around 3%.
business environment We have developed the AutoTrader Retail Price Index to monitor advertising spend.
reduction in manufacturers spend on digital continued to grow as the number of cars display advertising.
We continue to diversify into related and adjacent activities to registered still outweighs the number of reduce our reliance on stock and to improve the resilience of There are concerns about the implications cars that are scrapped each year.
surrounding the UKs departure from the The number of retailer forecourts has EU as economic conditions, currency volatility We closely manage our cost base and operate on a lean basis, remained relatively flat.
If the prices of cars The Board has considered the potential implications of the UKs increase, consumer confidence levels departure from the EU, taking into account the factors above, as well decrease, and manufacturers appetite as the time lag between the registration of new cars and the entry to supply cars to the UK market reduces, of cars into the used car marketplace and the strength of our value this could have an adverse impact on proposition, and does not consider that there will be a significant our business.
Our Our research shows that AutoTrader We have a clear and open culture with a focus on trust 1 2 3 research shows that we are the most trusted has 91% prompted brand awareness with and transparency.
Brand 4 5 6 automotive classified brand in the UK, with consumers for new and used cars and is We have a dedicated customer security team, who closely monitor nearly 10 times more consumers claiming to consistently voted as the most influential our site to identify and quickly remove fraudulent or misleading trust AutoTrader over our nearest competitor.
Failure to maintain and protect our brand, We invest in new and innovative marketing campaigns and new ways or any negative publicity that affects our We have seen a significant reduction in of engaging car buyers to continue to maintain brand awareness, reputation for example, a data breach, fraudulent and misleading adverts, due and to change perceptions of AutoTrader to be a destination for could diminish the confidence that retailers, to additional measures and monitoring new cars as well as used.
consumers and advertisers have in our techniques used by our security team.
products and services, and result in a Our approach to cyber security and data protection, as described on reduction in audience and revenue.
page 36, helps to protect us from the adverse impact of a significant data breach or cyber attack.
There are a number of online competitors in The competitive landscape continues We have the largest and most engaged audience of any UK 1 2 3 the motor classified market, and alternative to develop, with new business models automotive site.
Our investment in brand as described above helps us Increased 4 5 6 routes for consumers to sell cars, such as emerging.
to protect and grow our audience, to ensure that we remain the most competition auctions or part-exchange.
Big media players are also entering the Competitors could develop superior marketplace, mostly competing for We have a dedicated competitors guild to closely monitor consumer experiences or retailer products lower-value private sales.
that we are unable to replicate: or change We continue to invest in and develop our product offering to improve focus to try to expand their range of stock the value we offer to consumers, retailers and manufacturers.
We work in an agile way and can respond quickly to emerging This could impact our ability to grow revenue competitive threats.
Auto Trader Group plc 35 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Relevant Principal risk Impact Changes in the year Key mitigations focus areas Change Focus areas relevant to our KPIs 4.
Failure to innovate and develop new products In recognition of changing consumer Continuous research into changing consumer behaviour, including 1 2 3 Improve car buying in the UK or technologies, to execute new product behaviour, we have successfully launched our bi-annual Market Reports and Buyer Behaviour Report.
Failure to innovate: 4 5 6 Increase consumer audience, advert views launches or to adapt to changing consumer monthly price search in 2018, a complex 1 disruptive technologies Monitoring of emerging trends, using external resources where and use of our valuation tools behaviour towards car buying or ownership product requiring FCA authorisation, needed, and regular contact with other similar businesses in other and changing consumer could have an adverse impact.
For example, integration with external partners and Promote trust and fairness in the marketplace territories.
2 behaviours this could lead to an over-reliance on price to significant development of our platform.
Evolve the automotive ecosystem in the UK drive revenue growth in an unsustainable way: Ability to innovate and respond quickly due to our agile and or could result in missed opportunities as we collaborative way of working, and continuous investment 3 Grow ARPR in a balanced, sustainable way fail to be at the front of industry developments.
by creating value for our customers 4 Extend the penetration of products outside 5.
As a digital business, we are reliant on our The enactment of GDPR in May 2018 has We have a disaster recovery and business continuity plan in place 1 2 3 of our core classified proposition ITinfrastructure to continue to operate.
significantly increased the financial impact which is regularly reviewed and tested.
This includes the use of IT systems and 4 5 6 5 E nhance our relevance and value to manufacturers of a data breach.
We have enhanced our two data centres and regular back ups of data.
cyber security Any significant downtime of our systems processes and policies as required.
Become the most admired digital business would result in an interruption to the services We continuously monitor the availability and resilience of processing Operate a simpler, leaner and more we provide.
systems and services and if required can restore the availability and 6 data-oriented business access systems and data in a timely manner in the event of a physical A significant data breach, whether as a result or technical incident.
of our own failures or a malicious cyber attack, Our strategy page 20 would lead to a loss in confidence by our We have dedicated security teams, including white hat hackers, retailers, advertisers and consumers.
and carry out regular penetration testing and review of threats and vulnerabilities.
We invest in IT and security infrastructure to ensure This could result in loss of audience, loss of our systems remain robust.
revenue, reputational damage and potential financial losses in the form of penalties.
Over the last 12 months we have taken the opportunity to review all processes that involve data collection, storage or processing, and have updated and amended to ensure that they meet the enhanced GDPR requirements.
All of our employees are required to undertake annual compliance training which includes Information Security and GDPR.
We have introduced two-factor verification for all our retailers, and for employees, to access our network.
We have been PCI DSS payment card industry data security standard compliant since 2013 and use an external Quality Security Assessor to maintain best practice.
Our continued success and growth is 90% of employees completing our We use long-term incentive plans for our senior and key staff.
1 2 3 dependent on our ability to attract, engagement survey said they were Employees We carry out active succession planning and career development 4 5 6 recruit, retain and motivate our highly skilled proud to work at AutoTrader.
plans to retain and develop the next level of executives, and added workforce, with a particular focus on Our Glassdoor rating based on anonymous oversight of talent development to the terms of reference of the specialist technological and data skills.
Failure to do so could result in the loss of key talent.
Launched a mentoring matching We have a strong, value-led culture which is embedded through programme.
recruitment, induction, training and appraisals.
Carried out a review of long-term incentive We carry out employee engagement surveys and closely monitor plans and plan to make some changes to Glassdoor ratings.
We have regular business updates, all-employee make them more relevant and motivating.
annual conference, networks and guilds.
36 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key performance indicators page 22 Relevant Principal risk Impact Changes in the year Key mitigations focus areas Change 4.
Failure to innovate and develop new products In recognition of changing consumer Continuous research into changing consumer behaviour, including 1 2 3 or technologies, to execute new product behaviour, we have successfully launched our bi-annual Market Reports and Buyer Behaviour Report.
Failure to innovate: 4 5 6 launches or to adapt to changing consumer monthly price search in 2018, a complex disruptive technologies Monitoring of emerging trends, using external resources where behaviour towards car buying or ownership product requiring FCA authorisation, needed, and regular contact with other similar businesses in other and changing consumer could have an adverse impact.
For example, integration with external partners and territories.
behaviours this could lead to an over-reliance on price to significant development of our platform.
drive revenue growth in an unsustainable way: Ability to innovate and respond quickly due to our agile and or could result in missed opportunities as we collaborative way of working, and continuous investment fail to be at the front of industry developments.
As a digital business, we are reliant on our The enactment of GDPR in May 2018 has We have a disaster recovery and business continuity plan in place 1 2 3 ITinfrastructure to continue to operate.
This includes the use of IT systems and 4 5 6 of a data breach.
would result in an interruption to the services We continuously monitor the availability and resilience of processing we provide.
systems and services and if required can restore the availability and access systems and data in a timely manner in the event of a physical A significant data breach, whether as a result or technical incident.
of our own failures or a malicious cyber attack, would lead to a loss in confidence by our We have dedicated security teams, including white hat hackers, retailers, advertisers and consumers.
Auto Trader Group plc 37 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Viability statement In accordance with Provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the Group over a period significantly longer than 12months from the approval of these financial statements.
Assessment of prospects Assessment of viability The Board has determined that a period of three years to March 2021 The output of the Groups strategic and financial planning process is the most appropriate period to provide its viability statement due to: detailed above reflects the Boards best estimate of the future prospects of the business.
To make the assessment of viability, however, additional it being consistent with the Groups rolling three-year strategic scenarios have been modelled over and above those in the ongoing plan, planning process: based upon a number of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties it reflects reasonable expectations in terms of the reliability which are documented on pages 34 to 37.
These scenarios were overlaid and accuracy of operational forecasts:and into the plan to quantify the potential impact of one or more of these projections looking out further than three years become crystallising over the assessment period.
significantly less meaningful given the pace of change in the While each of the Groups principal risks has a potential impact and has digital automotive market.
therefore been considered as part of the assessment, only those that The Groups overall strategy and business model, as set out on pages represent severe but plausible scenarios have been modelled through the plan.
These were: 18 to 21, are central to assessing its future prospects.
As such, key factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of Scenario 1: Reduction of stock on the AutoTrader marketplace the Group are: Link to risk Economy, market and business environment, Increased Data and technology: continuous investment is made in developing competition, Failure to innovate platform technologies which leads to improvements for consumers, retailers and manufacturers: Macroeconomic factors such as consumer confidence have an impact on the number of new and used car transactions that occur in the UK and Market position: the Group has the largest and most engaged audience therefore retailer and manufacturer profitability.
A contraction in the of any UK automotive site and is the most influential website a consumer number of new and used car transactions, when coupled with failure to visits when purchasing a vehicle: and innovate new products in order to grow ARPR in a sustainable way, could People: continued success and growth are dependent on ability to lead to retailers reducing their advertising spend in favour of competitors.
attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, with a particular This scenario assumes a shock reduction in live car stock around a pricing focus on specialist technological and data skills.
The number of retailers advertising stock with the Group was The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through its strategic assumed to reduce in a short space of time with further reductions in the planning process.
This process includes an annual review of the ongoing year after the shock event.
No cost savings were assumed.
plan, led by the Group CEO and CFO COO through the Operational Scenario 2: Data breaches Leadership Team and in conjunction with relevant functions.
The Board participates fully in the annual process and has the task of considering Link to risk IT systems and cyber security, Brand whether the plan continues to take appropriate account of the external The impact of any regulatory fines has been considered.
The biggest environment including technological, social and macroeconomic changes.
of these is the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR fine for The output of the annual review process is a set of objectives which the data breaches, which was enacted in May 2018.
Group determines to be its focus areas, an analysis of the risks that could This scenario assumes a data breach resulting in the maximum fine, prevent the plan being delivered, and the annual financial budget.
The coupled with significant reputational damage to the Groups brand.
latest updates to the plan were finalised in March 2018, which considered A severe reduction in revenue was modelled through each of the Trade, the Groups current position and its prospects over the forthcoming years.
Consumer services and Manufacturer and Agency areas.
Marketing costs were increased to model a potential need to increase traffic.
Detailed financial forecasts that consider customer numbers, live car stock, ARPR, revenue, profit, cash flow and key financial ratios have been The scenarios above are hypothetical and severe for the purpose of prepared for the three-year period to March 2021. creating outcomes that have the ability to threaten the viability of the Funding requirements have also been considered.
On 6 June 2018 the Group: however, multiple control measures are in place to prevent and Group signed into a new Revolving Credit Facility the New RCF to mitigate any such occurrences from taking place.
replace the existing Senior Syndicated Term Loan and revolving credit The results of the stress testing demonstrated that due to the Groups facility.
The New RCF, which is unsecured, has total commitments of significant free cash flow, access to the New RCF and the Boards ability 400m and a termination date of June 2023.
There is no requirement to adjust the discretionary share-buy back programme, it would be able to settle all or part of the debt before the termination date.
to withstand the impact and remain cash generative.
The first year of the financial forecasts forms the Groups 2019 annual Viability statement budget and is subject to a re-forecasting process at the mid-point of the Based on their assessment of prospects and viability above, the Directors year.
The second and third years are prepared in detail and are flexed confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be based on the actual results in year one.
Progress against financial budgets able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over and focus areas are reviewed monthly by both the Operational Leadership the three-year period ending March 2021.
This control measure is in place to prevent and mitigate the impact of factors that may affect the Groups prospects.
Going concern The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, as explained in the Basis of preparation paragraph in note 1 to the financial statements.
38 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
