Risk management Understanding and managing our principal risks and uncertainties Risk management process We recognise that effective risk management is critical to enable us to meet our strategic Identify risks objectives and to achieve A top-down and bottom-up approach is sustainable long-term growth.
used to identify principal risks a cross the A four-step process has been business.
Whilst the Board h asoverall adopted to identify, monitor responsibility for the effectiveness of internal control and ri sk management, and manage the risks to which the detailed work is d elegated to the the Group is exposed: Operational Leadership Team OLT.
1 Identify Assess and quantify risks Monitor and review risks Risks and controls are The OLT is responsible analysed and evaluated for monitoring progress to establish the root against principal risks causes, financial impact in a continual process.
and likelihood of They are assisted by occurrence.
The Group the Groups internal 4 2 categorises risks into audit programme run sixareas: Monitor Assess in conjunction with economy, market and Deloitte.
and review and quantify business environment: The Board reviews the risks financial and Groups risk register and compliance risk: assesses the adequacy asset risk: of the principal risks 3 identified and the operational risk: mitigating controls and Respond to, competitive risk: and procedures adopted.
manage and mitigate risks Respond to, manage and mitigate risks The effectiveness and adequacy of controls in place areassessed.
If additional controls are required to mitigateidentified risks then these are implemented and responsibilities assigned.
32 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Internal auditor Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy page 20 Key performance indicators page 22 Our framework Risks are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are captured Audit Board in a risk register, identifying the Committee risk area, the likelihood of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk Operational Leadership Team to the desired level.
The Boards role is to consider whether, given the risk appetite of the Group, the level of risk is acceptable Risk register and risk review within its strategy.
The roles and responsibilities of each level of this framework Operational management are as follows: Risk governance and responsibilities The Boards responsibilities Operational Leadership Operational management Oversight functions and Overall responsibility Team responsibilities and internal controls internal audit for risk management.
Identify, assess, monitor, Embed and manage internal Aid in setting appropriate manage and mitigate risks controls and risk policies, provide guidance, The Audit Committees and exploit opportunities: management day to day as advice and direction on responsibilities part of business as usual.
implementation of those Ensure appropriate internal Assess the scope and policies and monitor the controls are in place: effectiveness of risk first line of defence.
management processes Ensure the risk register is and internal control properly maintained: and Additional line of defence systems.
Embed risk management as business as usual.
Auto Trader Group plc 33 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 External auditor
