Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 31 Principal Risks, Viability and Going Concern AVEVA faces a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature of these risks and ensuring appropriate mitigating actions are in place to manage them effectively.
indicators of the financial impact and cost saving initiatives implemented in the Risk management process likelihood, whether the risk has increased third year the Group is still projected to The Board retains ultimate responsibility or decreased in significance since the last generate profits in each year.
The Group for the Groups risk management and, as review, and which risks were included in has cash reserves of 105.6million and part of this, regularly reviews the Groups the viability statement workings.
access to a large revolving credit facility Risk Register and makes an assessment Additionally, each risk is linked back to the and consequently the Directors did not of the adequacy of the mitigating controls relevant part of the Groups strategy, consider this combination of scenarios to identified by management.
To aid this which can be found on pages 18 to 19. present a threat to the Groups liquidity.
process, a Risk Committee, chaired by the Deputy CFO and Company Secretary Viability statement The Directors have identified a number of and comprising senior management from The Group assesses its prospects factors which support their assessment: each function of the business, met twice primarily through its three-year strategic the Group operates in a number of during the year to March 2018.
The Risk planning cycle and annual budgeting diverse industries, in locations all Committee reports jointly to the Board process.
This process is led by the around the world: and the Executive Leadership Team.
Executive Directors, with responsibility for the Group has strong governance and business functions and the regions a robust control framework: and The Risk Committee has responsibility delegated to the appropriate senior there is considerable headroom for considering risk appetite, risk management.
The Board reviews the available to us in our cash balances identification, risk quantification business plans and annual budget each and revolving credit facility.
qualification and the determination of year to determine whether the plans mitigating internal controls.
The Risk continue to be appropriate in the light of Based on this assessment, the Directors Register was compiled after considering market conditions and recent technological have considered the Groups current three main risk characteristics likelihood, changes.
position and principal risks, and have a size of impact and timeframe for when reasonable expectation that the Group will the risk may impact the Group.
Likelihood In line with the Groups strategic planning be able to continue in operation and meet was assessed on a net risk basis i. e. after cycle, the Directors have assessed the its liabilities as they fall due over the threethe operation of mitigating activities as Groups prospects and viability over a year period to 31 March 2021. the Risk Committee considered this gave three-year period.
The Directors a more robust view of the risks currently determine three years to be an In making this statement, the Directors faced by AVEVA.
appropriate time horizon, aligned to both have also made the following the period covered by the Groups assumptions: The updated Group Risk Register was business planning cycle, as well as the oil prices will stay relatively flat for the ultimately reviewed and approved by the length over which the long-term incentive next three years before recovering: Board and in the context of the plan performance is measured.
Whilst the the integration activities relating to the assessment of viability the Board Directors have no reason to believe that combination will not materially distract considered which risks, and combination the Group would not be viable over a the combined sales force: and of risks, would threaten the viability of longer period, a shorter timeframe our internal controls in mitigation of a the Company.
provides greater certainty and reliability significant proportion of the risks on over the forecasts and stress-testing used the register continue to operate Given the combination of the heritage to assess the Groups viability.
AVEVA business with the heritage Schneider Electric Software business on The Directors considered the principal Going concern statement 1 March 2018, the Committee, with risks in plausible but severe scenarios and The Group has significant financial oversight from the Board, will be assessed the potential impact of a resources, is profitable, has high levels of reviewing and refreshing its enterprise risk reduction in the Groups revenue caused recurring revenue and has a strong position management processes throughout the by a combination of a period of sustained in the markets it serves.
At 31 March 2018, remainder of 2018 and 2019 to ensure low economic growth in key end markets, following a 100.0 million return of cash to that the enlarged Group will be effective in increasing competition, and operational shareholders, the Group had cash and managing risk within the new disruption in the first year of the treasury deposit balances of 105.6 million organisation, that the new Executive combination, together with large 2017 130.9 million and short-term Leadership Team is fully engaged with integration costs, supplemented by cost debt of 10.0 million 2017 nil.
Therefore, risk and that the Boards risk increases resulting from key employees after making enquiries and considering management expectations are fully met.
leaving the Group, resulting in large the cash flow forecasts for the Group, the A Head of Internal Audit and Risk was consultancy costs for the next two years.
Directors have a reasonable expectation recruited in April 2018 and it will be part of The results of this stress testing showed that the Group has adequate resources their responsibilities to lead this process that despite combining a cumulative drop to continue in operational existence for with the sponsorship of the Executive in gross revenue of nearly 500m with the foreseeable future.
For this reason Leadership Team and the Board.
incrementally increasing operating costs they continue to adopt the going concern by 55m over the first two years, followed basis of accounting in preparing the The principal risks faced by the Group are by a drop in costs in year 3 resulting from financial statements.
set out on pages 32 to 34, and include AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 32 Principal Risks Strategies Risk level Risk change from 2017 1 MT3D More than 3D Low No change 2 Owner Operators OOs Medium Risk decreased 3 Growth Markets High Risk increased 4 Broadening Market Exposure New 5 SaaS and the Cloud Risk included in Viability Statement workings Integration risks Likelihood Impact Change Strategy Risk Mitigation AVEVA has appointed a senior executive Integration and Synergies 1 as an Integration Director who leads the The Group may fail to efficiently and effectively integrate integration management office which 2 the heritage AVEVA and Schneider Electric Software is supported by external integration businesses and or fail to fully realise the anticipated 3 consultants who have been engaged synergies from the merger.
4 There are many areas that the Group must carefully manage In addition, there are a number of so that a successful integration takes place throughout 2018 workstreams in progress which are and beyond including management of costs, integration of managing day-to-day integration activities systems, controls, processes and management reporting.
including HR, Finance, IT, Marketing, Should these areas fail to be adequately managed, this Legal, Real Estate and Communications.
could lead to financial or reputational impact for the Group.
There are specific workstreams focused on realising the synergy benefits from the merger.
These are regularly monitored and reported upon to the Executive Leadership Team and the Board.
Strategic and market risks Likelihood Impact Change Strategy Risk Mitigation The combination with SES diversifies our Dependency on key markets 1 over-reliance on upstream Oil & Gas into AVEVA generates a substantial amount of its income from midstream and downstream, as well as 2 customers whose main business is derived from capital to a number of other industry verticals.
projects in the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
Recent 4 world economic conditions have reduced available funding AVEVA is now present in many market for new capital projects, particularly in the Oil & Gas market, segments such as Mining, Petrochemicals, and currently, some of AVEVAs vertical end markets are Power, Utilities, Food & Beverage and under pressure with lower oil prices.
As the availability of Infrastructure, which helps reduce capital expenditure returns to our key markets, particularly our dependency on Oil & Gas.
In Oil & Gas, the balance may shift away from our traditional addition, our extensive global presence core sector of complex offshore projects, towards simpler provides some mitigation from overonshore projects, such as shale gas extraction, that may reliance on key geographic markets.
not require as much use of AVEVA software.
The risk of this further reinforces our need for market diversification.
We carefully monitor customers and other Competition 1 suppliers operating within our chosen AVEVA operates in highly competitive markets, but markets.
We stay close to our customers 2 our 3D design tools are well established in our markets and ensure we have a strong understanding and we believe that there are a relatively small number 5 of their needs and their expectations from of significant competitors.
However, some of these the AVEVA product development roadmap.
competitors could, in the future, pose a greater competitive threat to AVEVAs revenue, particularly if they consolidate We expect that the customers we serve or form strategic or commercial relationships among will, over the next three to five years, themselves or with larger, well-capitalised companies.
show an increased appetite or insistence on their software needs being delivered Further threats are posed by the entrance, into AVEVAs with more flexibility.
AVEVA is already markets, of a much larger technology competitor or well progressed with its Cloud strategy transformational technology, such as Cloud-based and expects to be able to meet these solutions.
The risk of competition has heightened customer demands as they develop.
following the combination with SES as the proportion of our revenue that comes from services has increased.
The Groups strategy to extend into the digitalised world is key to ensuring that our customer penetration is broad and that AVEVAs sources of revenue are diversified.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 33 Risk change from 2017 Strategic and market risks continued No change Likelihood Impact Change Strategy Risk decreased Risk Mitigation We employ experienced industry Professional services Risk increased 2 professionals within our professional Where AVEVA assists customers with the deployment services team and continue to build 5 New of a solution this involves some degree of consulting commercial partnerships with third and or implementation work.
This requires specialist party systems integrators.
Risk included in Viability Statement workings knowledge to be available and well managed potentially in many geographic locations.
There is a risk that the We have rigorous processes and services provided do not meet the customers expectations controls for the appraisal of potential or that technical difficulties are encountered.
commercial opportunities prior to any bid being submitted.
Bids are appraised In some instances we may opt to partner with a third party on grounds of technical complexity as for this work and this relationship also requires careful well as financial and commercial risk.
management and maintenance to ensure that AVEVAs strong reputation with our customers is not damaged.
The risk is higher than in 2017 due to higher professional services revenue streams within the heritage Schneider Electric Software business.
Operational risks The Group endeavours to ensure that Recruitment and retention of employees 1 employees are motivated in their work AVEVAs success has been built on the quality and and there are regular appraisals, with staff 2 reputation of its products and services, which rely almost encouraged to develop their skills.
Annually entirely on the quality of the people developing and 3 there is a Group-wide salary review that delivering them.
Managing this pool of highly skilled rewards strong performance and ensures and motivated individuals across all disciplines and 4 salaries remain competitive.
Commission geographies remains key to our ongoing success.
and bonus schemes help to ensure the 5 success of the Group and individual achievement is appropriately rewarded.
The Group uses third party technology Protection of intellectual property 1 to encrypt, protect and restrict access The Groups success has been built upon the to its products.
Access limitations and 5 development of its substantial intellectual property rights are also defined within the terms rights and the future growth of the business requires of the software licence agreement.
the continual protection of these tools.
The Group seeks to ensure that its The protection of the Groups proprietary software products intellectual property rights are is achieved by licensing rights to use the application, rather appropriately protected by law than selling or licensing the computer source code.
and seeks to vigorously assert its proprietary rights wherever possible.
AVEVA continually reviews the alignment Research & Development 1 of the activities of our Research & The Group makes substantial investments in Research & Development teams to ensure that they 5 Development in enhancing existing products and introducing remain focused on areas that will meet the new products and must effectively appraise its investment demands of our customers and deliver decisions and ensure that we continue to provide classappropriate financial returns.
This process leading solutions that meet the needs of our markets.
is managed by developing a product Our software products are complex and new roadmap that identifies the schedule for products or enhancements may contain undetected new products and the enhancements that errors, failures, performance problems or defects will be made to successive versions of which may impact our strong reputation with our existing products.
Products are extensively customers or create financial implications.
tested prior to commercial launch.
In addition, AVEVA has a robust Security Development Lifecycle as a key component of our overall software development process and has created formal and collaborative relationships with third party security researchers and security organisations to proactively ensure our software is as secure as possible.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 34 Principal Risks continued Strategies Risk level Risk change from 2017 1 MT3D More than 3D Low No change 2 Owner Operators OOs Medium Risk decreased 3 Growth Markets High Risk increased 4 Broadening Market Exposure New 5 SaaS and the Cloud Risk included in Viability Statement workings Operational risks continued Likelihood Impact Change Strategy Risk Mitigation The Group manages its overseas International operations 3 operations by employing locally The Group must determine how best to utilise its qualified personnel who are able to resources across many diverse markets.
Where necessary, provide expertise in the appropriate the business must adapt its market approach to best language and an understanding of capitalise on local market opportunities, particularly local culture, custom and practice.
in the strategically key growth economies.
Whilst the likelihood and impact remain unchanged, the overall risk is considered slightly higher now the enlarged Group employs staff in over 40 countries globally following the combination with SES.
Local management are supported by Regulation & compliance 3 local professional advisers and further The Group is required to comply with both international oversight is maintained from the Groups and local laws, regulations and tax legislation in each of the corporate legal and finance functions.
jurisdictions in which it operates.
Significant changes in these laws and regulations or failure to comply with them could In addition, the Group uses compliance lead to liabilities or reputational damage.
A recent example policies and guidance materials, is GDPR, and the large regulatory fines that could apply.
communications & training platforms for its employees and external partners.
The Group utilises multiple layers Cyber attack 1 of cyber security threat defences The Group depends on its IT systems.
Should AVEVA be including perimeter, network, endpoint, 5 specifically targeted by a cyber attack or be impacted by application and data security controls.
a general global cyber incident, this could potentially lead to suspension of some operations, regulatory breaches A dedicated Security team monitors threats and fines, reputational damage, loss of customer and and targets investment in appropriate employee information and loss of customer confidence.
controls such as penetration testing, phishing and malware protection.
