46 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Risk management Risk management We identify, monitor, and manage risk from a group-wide view of each area of the business.
We analyse the likelihood of any risk and its potential impact, the adequacy of our controls, and any mitigation we have or need in place.
From this analysis, the executive team compiles a list of principal risks and receives input from the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board.
We also monitor and mitigate risks that may develop in the future.
We identify those issues which we believe BREXIT Additional Consideration pose the greatest risk to the business and Following the decision by the UK to exit, and as a consequence the Directors have its operations.
In addressing each risk, in due course, from the European Union considered a number of scenarios and we develop and implement a strategy Brexit, the Directors have continued to the Groups potential responses to them.
to mitigate the impact of such a risk, if it keep under consideration the expected This scenario planning has included were to occur.
Developing this strategy impact of Brexit on the Group.
The anticipating changes to the operations involves discussions between executive Group operates internationally with of the Group and its supply chain, which management and the Board.
We form a diverse geographic spread.
Whilst are not considered to be signi cant or this link between our strategy and our possible negative downward pressure on posing a heightened risk to the Group.
principal risks and focus on execution of sterling might result post-Brexit, thereby The impact of Brexit on the current our strategy as key to our risk mitigation.
negatively impacting our USD functional and future employees has also been As part of our monitoring process, we may results of the Group, the impact is considered and while there may be develop steering committees comprised mitigated by the fact that only 9% of our some disruption or changes in the UK, of members of executive management, global billings are sourced in either the these are not currently anticipated to who meet regularly with subject matter UK or in Sterling.
The exact nature of the materially aff ect one of the Groups experts from both inside and at times trading arrangements between the UK principal risks, the Recruitment and outside the Group, to review our strategic and the EU subsequent to the UKs exit retention of key personnel.
execution and implemented actions aimed from the EU currently remains uncertain at mitigating identi ed risks.
Executive management then provides updates about our strategic execution of the principal risks to the Audit and Risk Committee and to the Board.
Further details of the risk management and internal control systems are included in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 64 to 69.
Avast annual report 2018 47 Principal risks What is our strategy?
We strive for The Group has identi ed Off ering.
strong, eff ective, thorough data five principal risk categories What is the risk?
The risk is our product security and good data governance.
and service off erings do not appeal that it continuously monitors.
We produce products designed for to users.
These five principal risks are: security and privacy, and believe this What is the impact?
If we do not off er helps us maintain an ethical culture Off erings products and services that appeal to in which people are concerned about People users, our free user base may materially and committed to securing and decline and or we will fail to monetise protecting data.
Data our products and services.
Our strategy to What is the risk?
We operate a digital Concentration address this risk is to invest in product business globally and the scale and innovation, product management, In the Groups IPO Prospectus dated complexity of new laws are increasing quality assurance, and customer care.
10 May 2018, we identi ed 27 known risks.
as the digital economy becomes the From this list, we have determined the top backbone of global economic growth.
During our annual assessment What is the risk?
The risk is What is the impact?
New laws may of principal risks, we further segmented talented people leave or do not aff ect growth, including data protection, these top 10 risks into five principal join our workforce.
consumer laws, auto-billing, and digital risks categories.
These five categories tax laws.
form the Groups principal risks in 2018.
If we cannot attract During 2018, for risks associated with our or retain a talented workforce, we will What is our strategy?
We monitor global operating business units, such as Off erings not remain competitive in our industry.
legal developments and participate in and Concentration, we monitor these industry-wide lobbying.
We believe risks in our regular operating reviews of we need to create an exciting brand: the business units, as well as regularly Concentration.
provide attractive and internationally with the Board.
For other principal risks, What is the risk?
Our products rely on competitive compensation: provide such as People, Data and Regulatory, our users being able to easily nd and people with global mobility: recruit from we regularly review these risks as install them.
a broad pool of candidates: promote standalone matters and report on them based on diversity of backgrounds, What is the impact?
We face exposure in the Nomination, Remuneration or skills, cultures, gender, and ethnicity: and risks from large vendors, such as Audit and Risk Committees.
In the annual and provide eff ective training for Microsoft, Google, Apple, Facebook, assessment of our principal risks at the personal and professional growth.
Digital River, and telco carriers, who end of 2018, we asked ourselves what, may take actions that restrict our users if anything, had changed in our list of Data.
from being able to access and use principal risks, and what were the principal What is the risk?
risks appropriate for our business in the that data is compromised.
We develop What is the impact?
Failing to deep partner relationships with these The Group and its Directors consider the protect our data could have major vendors: however, we continually seek following five categories to be the principal customer, financial, reputational, out additional strategic partnerships and risks aff ecting the Group in 2018 in no and regulatory impact in all markets growth through organic initiatives.
Under each category are in which we operate.
descriptions of the potential impact and the Groups strategy for mitigating the risk.
48 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Risk management Viability statement The Directors have assessed the viability In making this viability statement, the of the Group over a three-year period, Board carried out a robust assessment taking into account the Groups current of the principal risks facing the Group, position and the potential impacts of the including those that would threaten its principal risks documented on pages 46 business model, future performance, to 47 of the Annual Report.
The strategic plan has been tested for a number of scenarios Based on this assessment, the Directors which assess the potential impact of con rm that they have a reasonable severe but plausible risks to the long-term expectation that the Group will be able viability of the Group.
The scenarios, and to continue to operate and meet its their eff ect on EBITDA and on the ability to liabilities over the next three years, meet financial covenants, were considered through to 31 December 2021. both individually and in combination.
The Group annually prepares, and updates The scenarios responded to the principal on a rolling basis, a three year strategic risks facing the business as well as plan, whose foundation is the more considering the potential impact of detailed one year budget also prepared Brexit.
They included reductions in certain annually for review by the Board.
The revenue streams, forex volatility and new output of this three year plan is used to initiatives not materialising.
The scenario perform debt and associated covenant with the most signi cant individual impact headroom pro le analysis, which includes was a sustained mid-single digit yearsensitivity to business as usual risks on-year decline in revenues from the impacting EBITDA.
Following assessment of the planning The Directors reviewed and discussed process, the Directors have determined the process undertaken by management, that a three-year period is an appropriate and also reviewed the results of reverse period over which to assess the Groups stress testing performed to provide viability.
Progress against the strategic an illustration of severe contraction in plan is reviewed regularly by the Board revenue of the largest business unit, that through presentations from senior would be required to break the Groups management on the performance of their covenants or exhaust all available cash.
Whilst the The process of identifying, assessing Directors have no reason to believe that and managing principal risks is set out the Group will not be viable over a longer above in this section on pages 46 to 47. period, the period of three years has been The Directors consider that this stresschosen as this matches the term of the testing based assessment of the Groups majority of the Groups sales typically one prospects is reasonable and the Groups to three years in duration, with a weighted business model has proven to be strong average contract life of around 14 months and defensive in the long term.
which therefore aids the accuracy of planning with a single renewal cycle, thereby providing a greater degree of certainty over the forecasting assumptions used and, in the view of the Directors, still provides an appropriate long-term outlook.
