Principal risks and management controls Our principal risks and how we manage them The Board, principally through the Audit and Risk Committee, keeps under review the risks facing the Group, including the appropriateness of the level of risk the Group may accept in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Board ensures that it controls the risk appetite ofthe Group through its delegated authorities, which impose strict controls on the Group for example, all acquisitions and disposals, all material capital expenditure, all material non-ordinary course tenders material ordinary course tenders are approved bythe Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director and all financing arrangements unless delegated to the Boards Finance Committee must be approved by the Board.
The Board considers and reviews the controls and mitigation plans in place: these are intended to manage and reduce the potential impact of the risks the Company takes to ensure, so far as possible, that theassets and reputation of the Group are Franco Martinelli, Group Finance Director protected.
The Groups risk management and internal control systems can, however, only seek to manage, not eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Babcock has an established formal process objectives, as any system can only provide that aims to identify and evaluate risks and reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
how they are to be managed.
Arange of internal control processes is inplace as part of the risk management regime.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 68 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Internal controls Risk management framework Board The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys risk management and The Executive Committee considers a internal control system.
This is overseen monthly report from the Chief Executive, on its behalf by the Audit and Risk the Group Finance Director and each of the Committee which is currently usually sector Chief Executives on the operational attended by all Board members.
and financial performance oftheir respective Executive Committee areas of responsibility.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews Babcock has a Group Security Committee aspects of the risk management and made up of senior functional and operational control system at its meetings and, managers with responsibility for security at least once ayear, formally reviews and information assurance at Group and the systems effectiveness as a whole operational level.
They meet regularly on behalf of the Board see the to discuss cyber and other security and effectiveness review statement on information assurance issues and threats Audit and Risk Group Security page 138.
It also receives in-depth facing the Group.
The Committee oversees presentations on individual major risks the Groups security and information Committee Committee throughout the year.
assurance management infrastructure and specific security projects.
The Group Finance Director is Chairman of the Committee, and each meeting is attended by the Groups Chief Information Officer and Chief Information Security Officer.
The Board receives regular reports on security and The Audit and Risk Committee receives information assurance matters.
regular reports from Ernst & Young, the internal audit function provider, and management reports relating to internal control and risk issues.
Internal Audit Operationally, internal control systemsare monitored by senior Group management with sector ChiefExecutives having responsibility  and risk management in their businesses.
Read more on page 70 Group risk management The Group Risk and Insurance Manager who reports to the Group Finance Director, working with senior operational management teams, keeps the risk register and risk assessment and evaluation process under review and development.
We seek to ensure a coherent and consistent Group Employees undertake a selection of best practice approach to risk assessment and risk management.
Risk assessments compulsory risk management training programmes for example: security, made at business unit level are subject toregular review and challenge by data protection and anti-bribery and corruption training appropriate to Groupsenior management.
Company employees their roles in order to increase awareness of potential risks.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Principal risks and management controls, continued Our internal controls include: Budget process Annual budgets and medium-term financial plans are reviewed by Group management before submission to the Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for the year are prepared at least quarterly.
Management and The Board receives details of monthly actual financial performance compared against budget, forecast and financial reporting the prior year, with a written commentary on significant variances from approved plans.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and sector Chief Executives report to each Board meeting onoperating performance and matters of potential strategic significance.
Group senior management receives a monthly narrative operating report from all business units.
Security and information There is a formal security and information assurance governance structure in place to oversee and manage governance structure security and similar risks.
Clear delegation and The Board regularly reviews and approves a schedule of delegated authorities setting out levels of specific limits of authority financial decision-making authority delegated by it.
Insurance The Group has a large and comprehensive insurance programme, preferring to place risk in the insurancemarket, where available on acceptable terms, rather than to self-insure or make significant useofcaptive insurance.
The Group has a full-time Risk and Insurance Manager who reports annually to the Board on the strategic approach being taken to insurance and on the placing of the programme.
Claims and litigation The Board and the Group Executive Committee receive monthly summaries of material disputes and actual reporting orpotential claims, their progress and potential outcomes.
The Group has an internal legal service.
Credit controls All significant credit risks are reviewed by Group Finance and an Executive Director, and, where appropriate and available, risk limitation actions are taken.
Code of Conduct and The Group has a Code of Conduct, summarising ethical and anti-bribery and corruption policies, making clear ethical, anti-bribery and its commitment to the highest ethical standards and the ethical standards it demands from its employees and corruption policies and those who work for it and with whom it does business.
procedures There is an anti-bribery and corruption governance structure in place and detailed policy and procedures available on the Babcock website, with supporting training programmes, which the Company believes meet the requirements of adequate procedures under the Bribery Act 2010.
Due diligence is carried out on actual or potential business partners as appropriate.
Those working on our behalf or in consortium with us are required to abide by our Code of Conduct or an equivalent and to undertake not to behave corruptly.
Group policies and The Group has written policies and procedures, which are kept under review, covering a range of matters procedures intended to reduce or mitigate risk, such as health, safety and environmental policies, security and information assurance, export controls, contracting requirements and guidelines, and legal, financial and accounting matters.
These policies and procedures are available to employees on the Group intranet and are supplemented atsector level by further business unit specific policies and procedures.
Whistleblowing hotline All employees have access to a confidential whistleblowing hotline with the opportunity to call, email or write letters detailing any area of concern whether financial irregularities, non-compliance with laws, breaches of our Code of Business Conduct, threats to health and safety, conflicts of interest or improper practices to be brought to the attention of senior management if they feel unable to raise them with linemanagement or if they have raised matters, but are not satisfied with the response.
A report on all whistleblowing cases and theresultant investigations and conclusions is submitted to each Audit and Risk Committee meeting see page96.
Critical supplier reviews Sectors regularly review the vulnerability of key supply chain partners whose continued ability to supply the Group is considered critical to its business performance, and also consider fall-back plans when first deciding to appoint such suppliers.
Business continuity and All sectors, business units and Group functions are required to consider the need for, and put in place, disaster recovery plans appropriate plans to minimise the risk of interruption to business and contract performance in the event of amajor disruption to normal functioning arrangements.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 70 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Principal risks, risk mitigation and controls The risks and uncertainties described below through to page79 are those that the Board currently considers to be of greatest significance to Babcock in that they have the potential to affect materially and adversely Babcocks business, the delivery of its strategy and or its financial results, condition or prospects.
For each risk there is a short description of the Companys view of the possible impact of the risk on the Group should it occur, and the mitigation and control processes in place to manage the risk which should be read in conjunction with the information above about our risk management approach and general controls.
Babcock is, however, a large and developing group of businesses, and factual circumstances, business and operating environments will change with new risks being identified or the evaluation of the significance of existing risks changing or being better appreciated and understood.
This means that the risks identified below are not and cannot be an exhaustive list of all principal risks that could affect theGroup.
Risks and uncertainties which might affect businesses in general and that are not specific to the Group are not included, but Babcock, ofcourse, faces such risks as well.
Our customer profile We rely heavily on winning and retaining large contracts with a relatively limited number of major customers, whether in the UK or overseas.
Many of our major customers are directly or indirectly owned or controlled by government national or local and or are wholly or partly publicly funded.
Our single biggest customer is currently the UK Ministry of Defence MOD.
These customers are affected by political and public spending decisions.
Commercial customers are also affected by conditions in their market sector which affect their levels of, and priorities for, spending.
favouring of small or mediumRisk description Potential impact sizedsuppliers or adopting a Policy changes following a change of Periods of uncertainty as to the course moretransactional rather than political administration or otherwise and ofcustomer policy and spending can cooperative, partnering approach to spending constraints on customers are result in the delay, suspension or customer supplier relationships: and material factors for the Groups business withdrawal of tendering processes and imposing new or extra eligibility and outlook.
requirements as a condition of doing Whilst the Board believes that policy Whilst customer policy changes or business with the customer that we may changes, spending reviews and restraints spending constraints can potentially offer not be able readily to comply with or can offer significant opportunities to the more outsourcing opportunities for us to that might involve significant extra Group to assist in the delivery of services pursue, they can also be a risk in that they costs, thereby impacting the to customers more efficiently and at lower could lead to changes in customer profitability of doing business cost, these factors inevitably also carry risk.
outsourcing strategy and spend, which withthem.
could include: Large customers, whether public or private sector, have significant bargaining reductions in the number, frequency, Mitigation power and the ability contractual or size, scope, profitability and or duration We have extensive and regular dialogue otherwise to cancel contracts without, of future contract opportunities with key customers, involving, as or on short, notice, often without cause, in the case of existing contracts, early appropriate, our Chief Executive, sector or they can exert pressure to renegotiate termination, non-extension or nonChief Executives and or other members them in their favour.
renewal or lower contract spend than of the senior management team.
anticipated and pressure to renegotiate The consequences for the Groups We actively monitor actual and potential contract terms in the customers favour business of the UK vote to leave the political and other developments and European Union are difficult to predict, favouring the retention or return of spending constraints that might affect our asthere is likely to be a period of in-house service provision, either customers demand for our services.
uncertainty over the effects on the generally or in the sectors in which We aim to be innovative and responsive nature, timing and scope of the policies we operate in helping customers meet their needs and procurement plans of both our and challenges.
current and potential customers in theUKand overseas.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Principal risks and management controls, continued The nature of our contracts, bid processes and markets We seek to win relatively long-term contracts for the provision of complex and integrated services to our customers.
Bidding for these contracts typically involves a protracted and detailed tendering process, often under public procurement rules.
There are typically only a relatively limited number of customers in each of the market sectors we serve.
The contracts we bid for often entail a substantial transfer ofrisk from the customer to the supplier.
Failure to realise the pipeline of opportunities and to secure rebids can mean missed opportunities for growth and loss of revenue.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Bidding requires a substantial investment If we lose a bid or a bid process is aborted We have a clear business strategy to target in terms of manpower resource and is by the customer or we withdraw due to a large bid pipeline, both in the UK and very expensive.
Bids can be subject to scope changes as it progresses, this is a internationally, and will only tender bids cancellation, delays or changes in scope.
significant waste of limited resource and for contracts we consider have a clear substantial expenditure that has to be alignment with the Group strategy and Contract award decisions made under written off.
where we believe we stand a realistic public procurement rules can be subject chance of success, both in the UK to legal challenge by losing bidders.
If we win a public procurement bid and andoverseas.
this is challenged, this could lead to delay Given the size and often long-term in contract award, expensive legal There are formal and rigorous reviews and natureof the contracts we bid for and the proceedings or the competition having gating processes.
Those at key stages of relatively limited numbers of customers tobe re-run.
each material bid are intended to reduce inthe markets we serve, significant the risk of underestimating risks and costs contracting opportunities tend not to arise Not winning a new bid can be a significant and ensure that limited bid resources are on a regular or frequent basis.
missed opportunity for growthwhich may targeted at opportunities where we not soon be replaced by another.
When we are bidding for such contracts consider that we have the bestprospects we have to price for the long term and for Not winning rebids could mean the of winning or retainingbusiness.
risk transfer, and the scope for later price loss of significant existing revenue and Group policies and procedures set adjustment may be limited or notexist.
acommercial, financial and legal Our contracts typically impose strict If we underestimate or under-price actual framework for all bids.
performance conditions and use key risk exposure or the cost of performance, Contractual performance is continuously performance indicators KPI that if not this could significantly and adversely affect under review at a business unit, sector complied with trigger compensation for our future profitability, cash generation and or senior Group executive level as the customer and or may result in loss and growth.
appropriate with a view to highlighting ofthe contract.
Compensation to the customer for at an early stage risks to delivery Bid and rebid success rates determine how poor KPI performance could significantly andprofitability.
much of the pipeline of opportunities is impair profitability under the contract realised and turned intoprofitable and damages following termination could business and how muchexisting business be substantial.
Unsuccessful bids or rebids mayadversely impact the strategic development and growth plans of theGroup.
A lack of success in exporting the Groups business model outside the UK and its current core markets could adversely impact the growth prospects and strategic development of the Group.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 72 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Reputation Given the nature of our customers and the markets in which we operate, our reputation is a fundamental business asset.
Our businesses include activities that have a high public profile and or if they were to involve adverse incidents or accidents, they could attract a high level of publicity.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation We have a relatively limited number of Given our dependence on individual Senior management at Group and sector customers and potential customers in our major customers and the relatively narrow level are keenly aware of reputational risks, market sectors and they typically have customer base in the markets in which we which can come from many sources.
currently operate, loss of our reputation risk control procedures relating to whether justified or not with a major contract performance, anti-bribery and We are involved in the direct delivery to customer or more generally could put at corruption, health and safety performance the public on behalf of our customers of risk substantial existing business streams and other matters that could impact our high-profile and sensitive services.
We also and the prospect of securing future reputation are described elsewhere on provide services which are critical to our business from that or other customers pages 60 to 67.
See also health, safety customers ability to discharge their own in that or other sectors.
and environmental risks on page 75. public responsibilities or deliver critical services to their customers.
Non-compliance with anti-bribery andcorruption laws could result in Failings or misconduct perceived or real debarment from bidding as well as in dealing with a customer or in providing criminal penalties.
services to them or on their behalf could substantially damage our reputation with that customer or more generally.
The same would be true of high-profile incidents or accidents.
Attitudes to the outsourcing of services generally or in a particular sector can alsobe adversely affected by the poor performance or behaviour of other service providers or incidents in which weare not involved.
As well as our reputation for service delivery, our ethical reputation is key.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Principal risks and management controls, continued Regulatory and compliance burden Our major businesses are dependent on being able to comply with applicable customer or industry-specific requirements or regulations.
Following the UK vote to leave the European Union, the terms of British exit will have implications for the requirements or regulations that are applicable to the business of the Group, including where a licence to operate in the European Union is required.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The cost of compliance can be high.
Failure to maintain compliance with We seek to maintain a clear understanding Requirements can change.
applicable requirements could result in of ongoing regulatory requirements and the loss of substantial business streams to maintain good working relationships Compliance with some regulatory and possible damages claims and with regulators.
requirements is a precondition for being opportunities for future business.
able to carry on a business activity at all.
We have suitably qualified and For example: A change in requirements could entail experienced employees and or expert substantial expenditure which may not external advisors to advise and assist Our Mission Critical Services business is be recoverable either fully or at all under onregulatory compliance.
subject to a high degree of regulation customer contracts.
relating to aircraft airworthiness and We have management systems involving certification and also to ownership Changing international circumstances competent personnel with clear andcontrol requirements for example, could result in the rise of trade accountabilities for operational regulatory European air operators must be protectionism and reduce the Groups compliance.
majority-owned and controlled by access to non-UK markets.
Our Articles of Association empower us European Economic Area nationals totake steps to protect our European air see page136 for more information.
operating licences, if necessary, by Our civil and defence-related nuclear controlling the level and or limiting the businesses operate in a highly regulated rights of non-European Economic Area environment.
For example, as part of owners of our shares see pages 136 to Brexit, the UK may leave the Euratom 137 for more information.
However, treaty and it is unclear what agreements wewill be taking steps to structure our will replace the existing arrangements Mission Critical Services business such that and what the impact ofthose new it continues to satisfy the requirements of agreements will be.
Geopolitical factors, for example the Where possible, our non-UK businesses are terms of the UKs exit from the EU, could based locally so that they can deliver the lead to significant tensions between services they need to deliver from within trading countries.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 74 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Health, safety and environmental Some of our operations entail the potential risk of significant harm to people, property or the environment.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Many of our businesses involve working Serious accidents can have a major Health, safety and environmental inpotentially hazardous operations or impact on the lives of those directly performance receives close and environments, which need to be properly involved and on their families, friends, continuous attention and oversight managed and controlled to minimise the colleagues and community, as can serious fromthe senior management team.
We have specific health, safety and Some, for example, the mission To the extent that we have caused or environmental governance structures critical operations of our helicopter contributed to an incident as a result inplace and extensive and ongoing services, involve an inherent degree of offailings on our part, or because as education and training programmes risk that iscompounded by the nature amatter of law we would be strictly forstaff.
of the services provided firefighting, liablewithout fault, the Group could The Board receives half-yearly reviews searchand rescue, air ambulance and beexposed to substantial damages ofhealth and safety and environmental emergency services and offshore oil claims, not all of which exposure may performance and the management and gas crew change services or the beinsuredagainst, and also to criminal reports tabled at each of its meetings environments in which they operate proceedings which could result in alsoaddress health, safety and low-altitude flying in adverse weather, substantial penalties.
environmental issues on an ongoing basis.
Such incidents which may have a high We believe we have appropriate insurance public profile given the nature of our cover against civil liabilityexposures.
operations may also seriously and Nuclear risks: we believe, having regard adversely affect the reputation of the tothe statutory regime for nuclear liability Group or its brand whether that would in the UK, the terms on which we do be justified or not, which could lead to nuclear engineering business and the asignificant loss of business or future terms of indemnities given to us by the business opportunities.
UK Nuclear Decommissioning Authority and the UK MOD in respect of the nuclear site licensee companies in which we are interested, that the Group would have adequate protection against risk of liability for injury or damage caused by nuclear contamination or incidents, but areputational risk as a result of any serious incident would remain.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Principal risks and management controls, continued People Our business delivery and future growth depend on our ability adequately and successfully to plan for management succession and for our continuing and future need to recruit, develop and retain experienced senior managers, business development teams and highly skilled employees such as suitably qualified and experienced engineers, technicians, pilots and other specialist skills groups.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Competition for the skilled and Losing experienced senior managers We give a high priority and devote experienced personnel we need is intense forany reason without plans for their significant resources to recruiting and they are likely to remain in limited replacement could have a material skilledprofessionals, training and supply for the foreseeable future.
This adverse effect on the prospects for, development, succession planning poses risks in both recruiting and retaining orperformance of, the Group and the andtalent management.
The Board, the Nominations If we have insufficient experienced Committeeand the Group Executive business development or bidding Committee regularly receive reports personnel, this could impair our ability onand or discuss these matters.
toachieve strategic aims and financial Apprentice and graduate recruitment targets or to pursue business in newareas.
If we have insufficient qualified and Further information about this subject and experienced employees, this could impair how we address it is on pages 64 to 65 of our service delivery to customers or our this Annual Report.
ability to pursue new business, with consequent risks to our financial results, growth, strategy and reputation and the risk of contract claims.
The cost of recruiting or retaining the suitably qualified and experienced employees we need might increase significantly depending on market conditions, and this could impact ourcontract profitability.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 76 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Pensions The Group has significant defined benefit pension schemes.
These provide for a specified level of pension benefits to scheme members, the cost of which is met from both member and employer contributions paid into pension scheme funds and the investment returns made in those funds over time.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The level of our contributions is based Should the assets in the pension schemes Continuous strategic monitoring and on various assumptions, which are subject be judged insufficient to meet pension evaluation is undertaken by Group senior to change, such as life expectancy of liabilities, we may be required to make management of the assets and liabilities of members, investment returns, inflation, increased contributions and or lump the pension scheme and, as appropriate, regulatory environment, etc.
Based on the sum cash payments into the schemes.
assumptions used at any time, there is This may reduce the cash available to The Company and the schemes trustees always a risk of a significant shortfall in the meet the Groups other obligations or have agreed a long-term investment schemes assetsbelow the calculated cost business needs, and may restrict the strategy and risk framework intended of the pension obligations.
future growth of the business.
toreduce the impact of the schemes When accounting for our defined benefit Accounting standards for pension exposure to changes in inflation and schemes, we have to use corporate liabilities can lead to significant interest rates.
bond-related discount rates to value accounting volatility from year to year Longevity swaps have been used to thepension liabilities.
Variations in bond due to the need to take account of reduce the impact of the schemes yields and inflationary expectations can macro-economic circumstances exposure to increasing life expectancy.
materially affect the pensions charge in beyondthe control of the Company.
our income statement from year to year There is a risk that future accounting, as well as the value of the net difference regulatory and legislative changes may between the pension assets and liabilities also adversely impact pension valuations, shown on our balance sheet.
both accounting and funding and, hence, costs and cash for the Group.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Principal risks and management controls, continued IT and security Our ability to deliver secure IT and other information assurance systems to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive information is a key factor for our customers.
The Group is rolling out a new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP application for our back office operations which also provides some front end functionality.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Despite controls designed to protect A breach or compromise of IT system We have made and will continue to make suchinformation, there can be no security or physical security at a physical significant investment in enhancing IT guarantee that security measures site could lead to loss of reputation, loss security and security awareness generally.
willbesufficient toprevent all risk of business advantage, disruptions in We have formal security and information ofsecuritybreaches or cyber-attacks business operations and inability to meet assurance governance structures in place beingsuccessful in their attempts to contractual obligations.
This could have to oversee and manage cyber-security and penetrate our network security and an adverse effect on the Groups ability similar risks.
to win future contracts and, consequently, The Board receives reports at least The risk of loss of information or data on our results of operations and overall quarterly on security and information byother means isalso a risk that cannot financial condition.
Failure adequately to plan and resource The ERP implementation project is Installing major new IT systems carries the the implementation of the new ERP overseen and closely monitored by risk of key system failures and disruption.
systems or difficulties experienced in steering and working groups, is regularly doing so could cause both trading and reported on to the Group Executive financial reporting difficulties that could Committee and will be implemented in be material.
aphased approach with parallel running of old and new systems for a period to what we believe is a realistic timetable.
Currency exchange rates As we expand outside the UK, our financial results are increasingly exposed to the impact of currency exchange rates.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation We prepare our consolidated results in If the currencies in which our non-UK We seek to mitigate exposure to Sterling and translate the value of assets, business is conducted are weak or movements in exchange rates in liabilities and turnover reported or weaken against the value of Sterling, respectof material foreign currency accounted for in non-Sterling currencies.
this will adversely affect our reported denominated transactions for example, results and the value of any dividend through use of derivative instruments.
Exchange rate movements can therefore income received by the Company from affect the Sterling financial statements and Although we do not use these to hedge non-UK operations.
If the cost of an results of the Group.
against the currency effect of translating operation ora contractual commitment for our financial statements.
The net assets Expenses or commitments may be is denominated or incurred in a currency and income of non-UK subsidiaries and incurred in a currency that is different different from the currency of the income long-term equity accounted investments, from the related turnover or income received from that operation or that is we maintain foreign currency borrowings needed to discharge them.
being relied on to discharge that to limit, in part, the net foreign commitment, movements in exchange Non-Sterling currencies to which we are currencyexposure.
rates can reduce the profitability of the currently most exposed are the Euro and operation and increase the effective cost South African Rand.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 78
