Effective management of risks and opportunities is How we essential to the delivery ofthe Groups strategic objectives and the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
manage risk Board The Board has conducted a review of the In addition, every six months, the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk businessesand Group functions complete The Board has overall responsibility for management and internal control processes,  Statement OAS, determining the nature and extent of the risk including financial, operational and compliance which is a mandated policy under the the Group is willing to take, and ensuring that controls and risk management systems, in Operational Framework.
The OAS is in two risks are managed effectively across the Group.
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance parts: a self-assessment of compliance with Risk is a regular agenda item at Board meetings Code.
The Company has developed a system the Operational Framework: and a report and the Board reviews risk as part of its annual of internal controls that was in place throughout showing the key financial and non-financial strategy review process.
This provides the 2018 and to the date of this report.
risks for the relevant business and Group Board with an appreciation of the key risks functions.
Together with reviews undertaken As with any system of internal control, the within the business and oversight of how by Internal Audit and thework of the external policies and processes that are mandated in theyare being managed.
auditors, the OAS forms the Groups process the Operational Framework are designed to for reviewing the effectiveness of the system The Board delegates oversight of certain manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure of internal controls.
riskmanagement activities to the Audit to achieve business objectives and can only andCorporate Responsibility committees provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Executive Committee asfollows: against material misstatement or loss.
The key financial and non-financial risks identified by the businesses from the risk Audit Committee Financial and non-financial risks assessment processes are collated and reviewed The Audit Committee monitors the Groups Financial risks expose the Group to potential by the Executive Committee to identify those key risks identified by the risk assessment costs which are quantifiable on the basis issues where the cumulative risk, or possible processes and reports its findings to the Board thattheir probability and impact can be reputational impacts, could be significant.
It is also responsible for reviewing understood adequately and related to the in detail the effectiveness of the Groups Management responsibility for the management financial statements.
system of internal control policies, and of the Groups most significant non-financial procedures for the identification, assessment Non-financial risks cannot be assessed readily risks is determined by the Executive Committee.
in financial terms and, therefore, cannot be The OAS and non-financial risk registers are reflected reliably in the financial statements.
Corporate Responsibility Committee reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee Process to monitor the status and progression of monitors the Groups performance in managing Businesses mitigation plans, and these key risks are the Groups significant non-financial risks, The responsibility for risk identification, analysis, reported to the Board on a regular basis.
including those arising in respect of business evaluation and mitigation rests with the line conduct, health and safety, and the Principal and emerging risks management of the businesses.
The Committee reports its The Board has carried out a robust assessment responsible for reporting and monitoring key findings to the Board on a regular basis.
of the emerging and principal risks facing the risks in accordance with established processes Group.
Emerging and principal risks have been under the Groups Operational Framework.
Approach identified, and are managed or mitigated, The Groups Risk Management Policy is The Groups risk management process is set through the application of the policies and setoutin the Operational Framework, the out in the Risk Management Policy, a mandated processes outlined above.
policy under the Operational Framework, Principal risks include those that would and, in respect of projects, in the Lifecycle The Groups approach to risk management threaten the Groups business model, future Management Framework, a core business isaimed at the early identification of key risks, performance, solvency, liquidity or reputation.
process under the Operational Framework.
mitigating the effect of those risks before Risks have been identified as principal based Further guidance is provided by a Risk theyoccur and dealing with them effectively on the likelihood of occurrence, the potential Management Maturity self-assessment tool.
impact on the Group and the timescale over Identified risks are documented in risk which they might occur.
The principal risks, The Group is committed to the protection registers showing: the risks that have been together with details of how they are being ofits assets, which include human resources, identified: characteristics of the risk: the basis mitigated and managed, are detailed on intellectual and physical property, and for determining mitigation strategy: and pages68 to 71. financialresources, through an effective risk whatreviews and monitoring are necessary.
management process, underpinned where Each risk is allocated an owner who has appropriate by insurance.
authority and responsibility for assessing Reporting within the Group is structured andmanaging it.
sothat key issues are escalated through Project risks are reported and monitored in themanagement team and ultimately to Group-mandated format Contract Review theBoard where appropriate.
The underlying Packs, which are reviewed by management principles of the Groups risk management atmonthly Contract Reviews.
The financial processes are that risks are monitored performance of projects is reported and continuously, associated action plans reviewed, monitored using Contract Status Reports, appropriate contingencies provisioned and which form part of the Contract Review Pack.
thisinformation reported through established These include programme margin metrics, management control procedures.
which are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee and Board.
Project margin is recognised after making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
Our principal 68 risks BAE Systems 66 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management framework Board Overall responsibility for risk management Risk challenge, monitoring and reporting Audit Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Non-financial Risk Register and Non-financial Risk Register Risk challenge, Risk challenge, Risk challenge, monitoring and reporting monitoring and reporting monitoring and reporting Executive Committee Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register and Non-financial Risk Register Risk challenge, monitoring and reporting Chief Executives Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly top-level review of the key operational, financial and non-financial performance issues within the business, and significant forthcoming bids and events Quarterly Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly management review of the performance of each of the Groups businesses against their objectives, measures and milestones Integrated Business Plan Core Business Process Annual long-term strategy and five-year plan for each business Strategic objectives and shareholder value Project objectives and financial return Business Risk Project Risk Risk Management Policy Mandated Policy Lifecycle Management Framework Mandated Policy 1.
Analysis Financial and non-financial risks Risks analysed for impact and probability Financial and non-financial risks Risks analysed for impact and probability recorded in risk registers recorded in risk registers to determine gross exposure to determine gross exposure 4.
Evaluation Risk owners identified and action plans Risk exposure reviewed Risk owners identified and action plans Risk exposure reviewed implemented.
Robust mitigation strategy andrisks prioritised andrisks prioritised subject to regular and rigorous review subject to regular and rigorous review Operational Assurance Statement Mandated Policy Lifecycle Management Project Performance Review Six-monthly management self-assessment of compliance Regular management review of project performance and issues  and summary of key risks  decisions and actions are taken Audit Review Board Assurance of the Business and Project Risk management processes as mandated in the Audit Charter.
Including Operational and Non-financial Risk Management assurance.
Operational 76 Framework As defined in the Groups Operational Framework.
