Risks are identified based on the likelihood of occurrence Our principal and the potential impact on the Group.
The Groups principal risks are identified below, together with a risks description ofhow we mitigate those risks.
Defence spending The Group is dependent on defence spending.
In 2018, 91% of the Groups sales were defence-related.
Lower defence spending The business is geographically spread across US, UK bythe Groups major andinternational defence markets: Defence spending by governments can fluctuate depending customers could have a in the US, the fiscal year 2019 Defense Appropriations onchange of government policy, other political considerations, material adverse effect on billwas enacted in September 2018 providing near-term budgetary constraints, specific threats and movements in the Groups future results clarity and support for the industry.
The enacted bill theinternational oil price.
maintains support for our medium-term planning There have been constraints on government expenditure assumptions and positive momentum for military inanumber of the Groups principal markets, in particular readiness and modernisation programmes: intheUK.
in the UK, theModernising Defence Programme has outlined a clear direction of travel for the Ministry of Defence.
This statement re-emphasises the UKs commitment to strong defence and security: in Saudi Arabia, regional tensions continue to dictate thatdefence remains a high priority: and in Australia, regional instability and the pace of military modernisation in the Asia-Pacific region continue to drivethe governments commitment to defence spending, with major recapitalisation programmes underway.
The government has indicated its intent togrow defence spending by committing to spend 2%ofGDP by 2020 21.
The diverse product and services portfolio is marketed across a range of defence markets.
BAE Systems benefits from a large order backlog, with established positions onlong-term programmes in the US, UK, Saudi Arabia andAustralia.
BAE Systems has a growing portfolio of commercial businesses, includingcommercial avionics and the commercial areas of the AppliedIntelligence business.
Government customers The Groups largest customers are governments.
The Group has long-standing relationships and security Deterioration in the Government customers have sophisticated procurement Groupsprincipal and security organisations with which the Group can have arrangements with a number of its government customers, including its three largest customers, the governments of the government relationships long-standing relationships with well-established and resulting in the failure to understood terms of business.
US, UK and Saudi Arabia, and their agencies.
It is important thatthese relationships and arrangements are maintained.
obtain contracts or expected In the event of a customer terminating a contract for funding appropriations, In the defence and security industries, governments can convenience, the Group would typically be paid for work adverse changes in the terms done and commitments made at the time of termination.
typicallymodify contracts for their convenience or terminate of its arrangements with them at short notice.
Long-term US government contracts, for those customers or their example, are funded annually and are subject to cancellation agencies, or the termination iffunding appropriations for subsequent periods are not made.
of contracts could have a Governments also from time to time review their terms of trade material adverse effect on and underlying policies and seek to impose such new terms the Groups future results andpolicies when entering into new contracts.
The Groups performance on its contracts with some government customers is subject to financial audits and other reviews which can result in adjustments to prices and costs.
BAE Systems 68 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Description Impact Mitigation 3. International markets The Group operates in international markets.
BAE Systems is an international company conducting business The occurrence of any The Group has a balanced portfolio of businesses across ina number of regions, including the US and the Middle East.
suchevents could have a anumber of markets internationally.
The Group benefits material adverse effect on from a large order backlog, with established positions The risks of operating in some countries include: social and the Groups future results onlong-term programmes in the US, UK, Saudi Arabia political changes impacting the business environment: and financial condition.
economicdownturns, political instability and civil disturbances: Therisk of the Groups the imposition of restraints on the movement of capital: the The Groups contracts are often long-term in nature and, inability to obtain and introduction of burdensome taxes or tariffs: change of export consequently, it may be able to mitigate these risks over maintain the necessary control and other government policy and regulations in the UK, theterms of those contracts.
export licences for our US and all other relevant jurisdictions: and the inability to obtain business in the Kingdom Political risk insurance is held in respect of export contracts or maintain the necessary export licences.
ofSaudi Arabia could affect not structured on a  basis.
the Groups provision of In July 2017, the High Court of England and Wales ruled that BAE Systems has a well-established legal and regulatory theUK government has been acting lawfully in granting defence capability to the country.
compliance structure aimed at ensuring adherence to export licences to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
The Court of regulatory requirements and identifying restrictions that Appeal has given permission for the decision of the High Court could adversely impact the Groups activities, including to be appealed and the hearing and determination of the appeal export control requirements.
The Group is exposed to volatility arising from movements in The Groups policy is to hedge all material firm currency exchange rates, particularly in respect of the US dollar, transactional currency exchange rate exposures.
euro, Saudi riyal and Australian dollar.
There has been volatility incurrency exchange rates in theperiod since the EU referendum in the UK.
The terms of the UKs exit from the EU on 29 March 2019 BAE Systems benefits from If there is no deal before the UK leaves the EU, itwill arecurrently uncertain, rendering it difficult for the Group to alarge order backlog with require the Group to put in place a set of actions prepare for potential changes in the regulatory environment.
established positions on andmitigations to prepare for the change that might take Inparticular, a no-deal Brexit could have an impact on long-term programmes in place in relation to a range of business activities.
These programmes which depend on the movement of goods the US, UK, Saudi Arabia include customs procedures, export control, and the use betweenthe UK and the EU.
andAustralia and there is ofspeciality chemicals whose use is currently authorised relatively limited UK-EU byan EU agency.
There is also a risk that, as a result of the UK leaving the EU, trading.
In respect of people, theGroups ability to take part in collaborative industrial BAE Systems will support the UK government in achieving the majority of persons programmes in Europe could encounter new EU barriers.
its aim to ensure that the UK maintains its key role in employed in the UK are UK European security and defence post-Brexit, and to nationals, with only small strengthen bilateral relationships with key partners in movements of EU nationals Europe.
This will be important for ongoing collaboration into and out of the Groups inthe development of defence capabilities.
Accordingly, the resulting Brexit near-term impacts across the business are likely to be limited.
Competition in international markets The Groups business is subject to significant competition in international markets.
The Groups business plan depends upon its ability to win The Groups business The Group has an international, multi-market presence, andcontract for high-quality new programmes, an increasing andfuture results may abalanced portfolio of businesses, leading capabilities number of which are expected to be in markets outside the beadversely impacted andatrack record of delivery on its commitments to USand UK.
adequately and obtain new The Group is dependent upon US and UK government The Group continues to invest in research and business in the markets in supportin relation to a number of its business opportunities development, and to reduce its cost base and improve which it operates.
In the UK, export contracts can be structured on a  basis and government support can also involve military training, ministerial support for promotional activities and financial support through UK Export Finance.
In the US, most of the Groups defence export sales are delivered through the Foreign Military Sales process, under which the importing government contracts with the US government.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 69 Our principal risks continued Description Impact Mitigation 5.
Laws and regulations The Group is subject to risk from a failure to comply with laws and regulations.
The Group operates in a highly-regulated environment Failure by the Group, or BAE Systems has a well-established legal and regulatory acrossmany jurisdictions and is subject, without limitation, itssales representatives, compliance structure aimed at ensuring adherence to toregulations relating to import-export controls, money marketing advisers regulatory requirements and identifying restrictions that laundering, false accounting, anti-bribery and anti-boycott orothersacting on its could adversely impact the Groups activities.
It is important that the Group maintains a culture behalf, to comply with Internal and external market risk assessments form an inwhich it focuses on embedding responsible business theseregulations could important element of ongoing corporate development behaviours and that all employees act in accordance with resultin fines and penalties andtraining processes.
therequirements of the Groups policies, including the and or the suspension or CodeofConduct, at all times.
debarment of the Group A uniform global policy and process for the appointment from government contracts ofadvisers engaged in business development is in effect.
Export restrictions could become more stringent and political or the suspension of the factors or changing international circumstances could result BAE Systems continues to reinforce its ethics programme Groups export privileges, inthe Group being unable to obtain or maintain necessary globally, driving the right behaviours by supporting which could have a material export licences.
employees in making ethical decisions and embedding adverse effect on the Group.
Reduced access to export markets could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future results and financial condition.
Contract risk and execution The Group has many contracts, including a small number of large contracts and fixed-price contracts.
In 2018, 44% of the Groups sales were generated by its The inability of the Group Contract-related risks and uncertainties are managed under 15largest programmes.
At31 December 2018, the Group todeliver on its contractual the Groups mandated Lifecycle Management process.
hadeight programmes with order backlog in excess of1bn.
commitments, the loss, A leadership development programme for project directors expiration, suspension, A significant portion of the Groups revenue is derived from continues to be deployed across the Group, covering the cancellation or termination fixed-price contracts.
Actual costs may exceed the projected leadership competencies required to manage complex of any one of its large costs on which the fixed prices are agreed and, since these projects containing significant levels of risk and uncertainty.
contracts or its failure to contracts can extend over many years, it can be difficult anticipate technical problems A significant proportion of the Groups largest contracts are topredict the ultimate outturn costs.
or estimate accurately and with the UK Ministry of Defence.
In the UK, development control costs on fixed-price It is important that the Group maintains a culture in which programmes are normally contracted with appropriate itdelivers on its projects within tight tolerances of quality, contracts could have levels of risk being initially held by the customer and amaterial adverse effect timeand cost performance in a reliable, predictable and contract structures are used to mitigate risk on production repeatable manner.
onthe Groups future results programmes, including where the customer and contractor and financial condition.
share cost savings and overruns against target prices.
The Group has a well-balanced spread of programmes and significant order backlog which provides forward visibility.
The Group has limited exposure to fixed-price design and development activity which is in general more risk intensive than fixed-price production activity.
Robust bid preparation and approvals processes are well established throughout the Group, with decisions required to be taken at the appropriate level in line with clear delegations of authority.
Contract awards and cash profiles The Group is dependent on the award timing and cash profile of its contracts.
The Groups profits and cash flows are dependent, to a Amounts receivable The Groups balance sheet continues to be managed significant extent, on the timing of, or failure to receive, underthe Groups defence conservatively in line with its policy to retain an investment awardofdefence contracts and the profile of cash receipts contracts can be substantial grade credit rating and to ensure operating flexibility.
and, therefore, the timing The Group monitors a rolling forecast of its liquidity of, or failure to receive, requirements to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet awards and associated cash its operational needs and maintain adequate headroom.
advances and milestone payments could materially affect the Groups profits and cash flows for the periods affected, thereby reducing cash available tomeet the Groups cash allocation priorities, potentially resulting in the need to arrange external funding and impacting itsinvestment grade creditrating.
BAE Systems 70 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Description Impact Mitigation 8.
Pension funding The Group has an aggregate funding deficit in its defined benefit pension schemes.
In aggregate, there is an actuarial deficit between the value of Increases in pension scheme In the UK, new employees have been offered the projected liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension deficitsmay require the Group membership of defined contribution rather than schemes and the assets they hold.
toincrease the amount of cash defined benefit schemes since April 2012 and, contributions payable to these inthe US, employees have not accrued salaryThe funding deficits may be adversely affected by changes in a schemes, thereby reducing cash related benefits in defined benefit schemes since number of factors, including investment returns and members available to meet the Groups January 2013. anticipated longevity.
In November 2017, the UK triennial funding valuations and, where necessary, deficit recovery plans were agreed with the trustees and certified by the scheme actuaries after consultation with thePensions Regulator.
The funding deficit across the UK schemes at 31 March 2017 was 2.1bn.
Based on these funding valuations, deficit recovery payments to the UK schemes were 211m in 2018.
The deficits in each of the schemes are expected tobecleared between 2021 and 2026.
Information technology security The Group could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats.
The security threats faced by the Group include threats to Failure to combat these risks The Group has a broad range of measures in itsinformation technology infrastructure, unlawful attempts effectively could negatively impact place, including appropriate tools and techniques, togain access to its proprietary or classified information the Groups reputation among its to monitor and mitigate this risk.
andthepotential for business disruptions associated with customers and the public, cause information technology failures.
disruption to its business operations, and could result in a negative impact on the Groups future results and financial condition.
People The Groups strategy is dependent on its ability to recruit and retain people with appropriate talent and skills.
Delivery of the Groups strategy and business plan is dependent The loss of key employees or The Group recognises that its employees are on its ability to compete to recruit and retain people with inabilityto attract the appropriate keytodelivering itsstrategy and business plan, appropriate talent and skills, including those with innovative people on a timely basis could andfocuses on developing the existing workforce technological capabilities.
adversely impact the Groups ability andhiring talented people to meet current and to deliver its strategy, meet the future requirements.
The Groups business plan is targeting an increasing level of business plan and, accordingly, have business in international export markets outside the US and UK.
The Group has well-established graduate a negative impact on the Groups Itis important that the Group recruits and retains management recruitment and apprenticeship programmes future resultsand financial condition.
with the necessary international skills and experience in the and, in order to maximise the contribution that relevant jurisdictions.
itsworkforce can make to the performance of thebusiness, has an effective through-career capability development programme.
In order to seek to maximise its talent pool, theGroup is committed to creating a diverse andinclusive environment for its employees.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Group.
Strategic report The Strategic report was approved by the board of directors on 20 February 2019.
David Parkes Company Secretary BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 71
