y g e t 3 a r t R s i s r k o v m a i t k i k g a a t B i o n 1 s s RISK MANAGEMENT DESIGNED TO HELP US DELIVER AGAINST OUR STRATEGY Bakkavors risk management process is controls in dealing with these risks and any designed to help the Group deliver against required remedial action, together with an its strategy, while protecting the interests update on their implementation.
ofkey stakeholders and safeguarding The Audit and Risk Committee reports to assets including its people, finances the Board on the effectiveness of the risk andreputation.
The Board has overall responsibility for Day-to-day risk management is led ensuring the effective identification and by Senior Management with ownership management of key strategic and emerging for individual risks, as identified in the risks, and for the review and approval Risk Register, assigned to a member of the of the ongoing risk management process, Senior Management team.
Management of including clear policies as to what can be risk is embedded in daily working practices considered an acceptable level of risk.
and underpinned by Bakkavors policies and Bakkavor maintains a formal Risk Code of Conduct and Business Ethics.
Registerwhich is updated regularly and Where risks are identified, action plans are identifies the principal risks faced by the developed to mitigate each risk, with clear Group and the key mitigating actions used allocation of responsibilities and timescales to address them.
Progress towards The Audit and Risk Committee, delegatedby implementing these plans is monitored and the Board, reviews the effectiveness of the reported back to the Board through the Groups risk management process and Audit and Risk Committee as part of internal control system and receives a structured business review.
regular reports from management and Internal and External Auditors.
These detail the risks that are relevant to business activity, the effectiveness of internal The process begins with the 1 evaluation of the most significant strategic risks for Bakkavor.
Senior Management must regularly 2 assess risks for potential impact.
Action plans for mitigating 3 significant risks are developed RISK and implemented.
MANAGEMENT The Audit and Risk Committee, PROCESS 4 delegated by the Board, is responsible for the independent review of the effectiveness of risk management and the internal control system.
com 25 e c 2 o R r i p s k w a e i s v s e e r s s k m s i e R n t 4 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED US and China, these are markets within INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM IT systems The Group has which Bakkavor has operated for many a Disaster Recovery Programme The internal control system provides years.
Therefore, whilst there is an element in place and strict policies to ensure Senior Management with an ongoing of risk in all investments, we believe the its IT infrastructure and equipment are process for risk management.
The system Company is well placed to minimise sufficiently protected.
In addition, can only provide reasonable, and not exposure in these two key markets.
Bakkavor has in place a continuous absolute, assurance, as it is designed to IT Risk and Security Programme.
manage rather than eliminate all risks.
2019 PLAN Treasury The Group has a treasury Examples of the Bakkavor internal control Following the IPO in November 2017, policy in place with its main objectives to system are: the Group is now subject to increased ensure that appropriate capital resources regulation as a listed company and has Health and safety The Group promotes are available for the maintenance and appointed a Head of Risk to lead the a proactive safety and accident awareness development of the Groups businesses, development of its internal controls.
culture and has in place health and safety and to ensure that the financial risk relating teams that define standards and monitor to the Groups currency, interest rate and Brexit continues to be an area of focus compliance with the Groups policies for counterparty credit exposure is understood, given the relative scale of our UK business.
The resulting uncertainty has affected the value of sterling and labour retention in Food safety The Group aims to deliver RISK APPETITE particular and further developments food products with the highest levels continue to be monitored closely.
The Groups approach is to minimise of safety and integrity.
Bakkavor applies During the year the Group established exposure to reputational, financial and food safety procedures when designing and a working group made up of senior operational risk, while accepting a risk managing all of its sites, including rigorous members of key functions to keep under reward trade-off in achieving its strategic testing and Hazard Analysis Critical Control review developments surrounding Brexit.
As a food-producing business, Point management systems.
Bakkavor was also awarded Authorised food safety and integrity is of paramount Food quality The Group maintains Economic Operator status during the year importance and all practical efforts are strict controls regarding the authenticity, which we believe will help speed up the made to mitigate risk in this area.
quality and labelling of the products it importing process in the event of border The business takes a measured approach manufactures and supplies.
Bakkavor is controls being introduced.
to overseas investment to minimise risk subject to regular inspection by food safety exposure.
Whilst significant capital and other authorities for compliance with expenditure has been invested in the applicable food laws.
RISK ASSESSMENT MAP 1 Food safety and integrity 5 Raw material and input 2 cost inflation Reliance on a small number 3 4 4 2 of key customers Manpower scarcity and costs 4 13 IT systems and cyber risk 5 3 7 5 Health and safety 6 8 Recruitment and retention 10 7 of key employees 12 11 2 6 3 1 14 Investment and development 8 Liquidity, interest rates, exchange 9 rates and covenant compliance 1 9 10 Brexit disruption Disruption to Group operations 11 Sustainability 12 1 2 3 4 5 Consumer behaviour and demand 13 Business impact after mitigation Competitors 14 26 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report Likelihood after mitigation In 2018, the Group extended its principal risks and uncertainties to include investment and development, Brexit disruption, disruption to Group operations, sustainability, consumer behaviour and demand, and competitors.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Change in risk level over past 12 months Key Change in risk level over past 12 months Link to strategic priorities 1 2 3 higher level lower Leveraging number one Accelerating growth in Improving position in the UK high-potential operational efficiency international markets RISK AREA RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING CONTROLS RISK TREND 2018 Food safety Millions of people eat our products Stringent food safety policies in place The level of risk has and integrity every day.
We have a duty to make throughout the organisation and use of remained unchanged.
food that is safe and is clearly and Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point 1 2 3 correctly labelled.
principles to identify and control food safety risks.
Consumer safety and confidence are vital to our business: any issue that Employees trained against breaches that trust could result in documented procedures.
loss or reduction of customer Food safety controls regularly audited by business and also impact our internal and external parties.
Emerging risks credibility and reputation.
monitored by working with industry and regulatory bodies.
Food safety audits conducted for new suppliers with, regular audits of existingsuppliers.
Regular reporting of food safety performance to the Board and immediate reporting of significant issues.
Raw material The Groups cost base and margin Central procurement team focused on The risk has and input are vulnerable to fluctuations in the achieving a balance between price, quality, marginally cost inflation price and availability of raw availability and service levels.
increased due to materials, packaging materials ongoing uncertainty Forward purchasing agreed and price 3 andfreight.
variations passed on where possible.
Ability to pass on any increases in Agreements in place with some customers these costs to customers within a on recovery of raw material cost impacts.
reasonable timeframe is a challenge Continued focus on cost reduction and and failure to do so could impact productivity enhancements.
theGroups profitability and hence its ability to continue to invest in thebusiness.
Reliance on a We work with four of the largest food Partnership model in place with customers.
Customer small number of retailers in the UK and a significant In the UK, customer-specific champions concentration has key customers proportion of our revenue is from and teams manage strategic remained unchanged.
1 3 Any major customer loss would Relationships with all grocery retailers havea significant negative impact beyond the four largest gives breadth on our business.
Strong reputation for food safety and quality.
Reputation amongst customers for strong insights and innovation capabilities.
Significant investment in manufacturing facilities and highly complex just in time manufacturing process.
com 27 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK AREA RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING CONTROLS RISK TREND 2018 Manpower Manpower scarcity and higher labour Specific campaigns and focus groups Brexit concerns have scarcity and costs could affect the Groups in place targeting recruitment of future increased the risk.
costs business and future profitability.
employees and building attractiveness The Group competes with other of careers in the food industry.
1 2 3 manufacturers for good and reliable Initiatives in place to enhance and upgrade employees.
The supply of such factory site facilities to help attract and employees is limited and competition retain employees.
to hire and retain them may result in higher labour costs.
Central staff dedicated to recruitment and management of staff costs.
Additionally, for the Groups UK operations, Brexit presents a risk Initiatives in place to support employees with as historically the Group has employed Brexit-related concerns.
a material number of citizens from elsewhere in the European Union.
IT systems Unauthorised access of the Companys Group Information Systems IS manage Cyber threats have and cyber risk Information Technology IT systems access to business data in the UK through become more could leadto breaches of data strong password protection, role-based common in the wider 1 2 protection and release of market access to business systems and policies economy.
Group has increased investment in this Any breakdown or failure in the The Group IS department has delivered area, overall the Groups IT infrastructure or the Disaster Recovery DR for all critical risk has marginally Groups communication networks, systems in the UK and is working towards increased.
including malicious cyber-attacks delivering DR for other important systems.
by third parties, could delay or Group IS has strict policies and actively otherwise impact the Groups ensures UK IS infrastructure and equipment day-to-day business.
are sufficiently protected against malicious cyber attacks.
Local teams in the US and China are developing our IS infrastructure capabilities.
Health and We understand our duty of care to H&S and environmental impacts are The level of risk has safety secure and protect the health and managed locally by our teams and managed remained unchanged.
safety H&S of our employees and to by the Groups in-house experts who embed 1 2 reduce the environmental impact of and monitor practices.
Failure to maintain the Stringent processes are implemented for H&S of employees could have a identifying and managing H&S and significant reputational impact and environmental risks.
also have serious legal consequences.
Regular reporting of H&S Key Performance Indicators to the Group Board and immediate reporting of significant issues.
Culture of employee engagement around accident prevention across the Group.
Recruitment We have a highly experienced Company values used to recruit, appraise, The risk is marginally and retention management team who reward and develop employees.
higher due to an of key arepassionate about our business and increased requirement Ongoing succession planning, commitment employees who are integral to our continued for skilled labour to training and bonus schemes in place growth and success asamarket across our toretain key personnel and manage 1 2 3 leader.
The loss of any of these international staffturnover.
personnel or the Groups inability to businesses.
recruit new personnel would have an adverse impact on the Group.
We risk being unable to achieve our strategic growth objectives without the recruitment, development and retention of talented and committed people who understand and respect our values.
28 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report RISK AREA RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING CONTROLS RISK TREND 2018 Investment Much of our future growth will Detailed planning and sharing of best Increased investment and be delivered from new factory practice within the Group minimises risk.
in development development builds and acquisitions.
This adds projects has increased a level of execution risk to execution risk.
Liquidity, To achieve our growth objectives, Financial results, projections and covenant Liquidity metrics have interest rates, we require a strong performance reviewed regularly.
Open and regular dialogue with rates and The Group has significant facilities our lendersand an active investor covenant governed by financing agreements engagementprogramme.
compliance under which we are subject Treasury function operates within to various financial covenants 3 framework of strict Group Board-approved and undertakings.
Breaching any covenant would impair Active foreign exchange hedging our ability to maintain existing programmemaintained.
financing and secure future financing, thereby destabilising Active policy of hedging known the business.
 expenditure both for specific projects and on a rolling basis for material purchases.
Brexit It is possible that the way in which We have recently obtained AEO status which Current uncertainty disruption Brexit is delivered will result in should help us streamline and simplify our regarding the outcome disruption at the UK ports leading to import processes.
of Brexit has increased 1 increasing costs and availability the risk.
Longer-life packaging and raw material problems, especially with short life stocks will be increased as necessary.
raw materials, which ultimately might impact sales volumes.
Disruption Catastrophic damage to one of our Building and property management The level of risk has to Group food factories by fire, flood or IS protocols are employed and audited in remained unchanged.
operations disruption would interrupt supplies.
conjunction with our property insurers.
Business continuity plans are in place and 1 2 for many products alternative Bakkavor factories could supply in the event of a major issue.
Sustainability To continue with our growth agenda We are increasing our focus and monitoring Increased pressure we must ensure that the business of performance and development in relation from our customers 1 2 3 is developing in a sustainable way.
to carbon, waste, water, plastics and and consumers responsible sourcing.
to demonstrate sustainability has increased the risk.
Consumer Changes in consumer demand due to We work closely with our customers to adapt Higher prices arising behaviour and a serious change in the UK economy to changing consumer trends.
from weaker sterling demand or other consumption factors could and changing impact our plans.
demand focus has 1 increased risk.
Competitors The Group operates in a highly Developing and maintaining strong The level of risk has competitive market.
working relationships with our customers remained unchanged.
1 2 underpinned by high service levels and constant product development and innovation.
com 29 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED As part of the Groups annual strategic VIABILITY STATEMENT planning the Group prepares a detailed In line with Provision C. 2.2 of the financial model which forecasts the Governance Code, the Directors have consolidated Income Statement, Balance carried out a thorough review of the Sheet, Cash Flow, covenant performance prospects of the Group and its ability to and liquidity requirements of the Group for meet its liabilities through to at least the a three-year period.
Sensitivity analysis is end of December 2021. performed on this model taking account of The business operates in a fast-moving the potential financial impact of the specific sector with a high number of products risks outlined above, including Brexit.
The Group has to The majority of the Groups debt facilities adapt to meet the changing needs of mature in June 2021, and therefore these customers and consumers: therefore the facilities will need to be refinanced during Directors have concluded that a three-year 2020.
Based on current trading time frame is an appropriate period for this performance and future expected trading, assessment, as this is the period over which the Directors do not see any reason why the the Directors can realistically set the debt facilities will not be refinanced on strategic plan for the Group.
similar terms to those currently in place.
The Directors have assessed the Having taken account of the sensitivity principal risks to the business and the key analysis and the availability of adequate mitigating actions used to address them.
financing facilities, the Directors consider This assessment included the potential that the Group will be able to continue in disruption to the business arising from the operation over the three-year period to the way in which Brexit is ultimately delivered.
For each of the principal risks, action plans have been developed to mitigate the risk with a clear allocation of responsibilities for mitigation and the timescales for completion.
Whilst all the risks identified, including food safety and integrity, could have an impact on the Groups performance, the specific risks which could potentially impact the Groups financial position include a reduction in sales volumes, the vulnerability of the Groups cost base and margin to fluctuations in the price and availability of raw materials, the impact of higher labour costs and scarcity of labour.
30 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report
