58 Principal risks Influencing the way we work Understanding Balfour Beattys risk profile and establishing the most effective way to manage, accept or transfer risk is central to the Groups decision-making process.
The principal risks and uncertainties are continually mapped to strategic and business plans to ensure the appropriate coverage of risks allowing the Board to make a robust assessment of the principal risks which the Group faces, the controls in place to remove or mitigate these risks and whether these risks represent new, increased or decreased threats.
The risk profile comprises interlinked and discrete risks which are focused on understanding the worst case scenarios that could threaten the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
As a result, changes in the Group risk profile and movements in the some of the principal risks have beenidentified and are described on pages 58 to 66 below.
Brexit Balfour Beatty continues to monitor potential risks and uncertainties posed by the UKs exit from the EU.
A well-established working group comprised of functional experts monitors developments in this area closely.
Specific risks and related mitigations are controlled in individual strategic business units and kept under review by the Executive Committee.
Whilst there remains a great deal of uncertainty as towhat Brexit will mean for the construction industry and Balfour Beatty in particular, the Group continues to develop and implement plans toensure the best possible outcomes.
Further commentary is included in the uncertainty within our economic environment risk on page 66.
Climate change The changing global climate generates a number of risks and opportunities for Balfour Beatty the impact of which, and mitigations against, areconsidered and reviewed as part of the Groups risk management process.
Whilst climate change is not currently considered to be a principal risk tothe business, the most significant elements have been identified to be changes in environmental legislation and weather related events.
Further commentary on the potential impacts of climate change is set out on page 38.
Health and safety Causes How it is mitigated Safety and Balfour Beatty has in place an overarching Some common themes which could drive Owner: Sustainability KeyStrategy comprising policies and procedures healthand safety risks are recognised and Committee ZeroHarm to minimise such risks.
This strategy communicated, including: and itsaction plans are reviewed and monitored risk identification assessment Build to bymanagement and external verification bodies.
Safe lack of competence Lastpillar: Each business has experienced health and processes that fail to deliver risk safetyprofessionals in place who provide advice eliminationor mitigation and support and undertake regular reviews.
Risk: no movement failure in safety leadership The Safety and Sustainability Committee of ineffective management of subcontractors theBoard, as well as business-level Health andSafety executive leadership teams, failure to cascade and follow procedures Risk description meetregularly throughout the year to develop ongoing transformation programme and The Group works on significant, aconsistent approach to health and safety performance pressures, affecting the ability complex and potentially hazardous bestpractice.
ofpeople to remain focused on health projects which require continuous Training programmes including behavioural andsafety risks.
monitoring and management of areinplace.
What impact it might have Failure to manage these risks gives the potential for significant harm, including fatal or life changing injuries to employees, subcontractor staff or members of the public, as well as criminal prosecutions, significant fines, debarring from contract bidding and reputational damage.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 59 Work winning Causes How it is mitigated Group Tender Inaccuracy at Gate reviews in: The Group Tender and Investment Committee Owner: and Investment process is in place to challenge all proposals.
assumptions behind investment decisions Committee Consistent and shared policies and costs versus scope and time calculations minimumcommercial expectations Build to bid strategy development Trusted includingacceptable margins.
Lastpillar: assessment of the impact of inflation A wide and ongoing range of training initiatives andexchange rates across all disciplines within the Group including technical and written proposal development Cash is our Compass and High Value Selling Risk: decreased todrive increased commercial awareness and Quick Qualifier assumptions anunderstanding of expectations on margins contract account management andcost.
negotiation of terms and conditions Risk description Commercial contractual reviews are Failure to identify, price, and execute assessment of customers liquidity conductedbykey commercial and legal staff.
the appropriate volume and quality of creditworthiness.
Defined delegated authority levels are bids and investment opportunities to inplaceforapproving all tenders and What impact it might have maintain a profitable, sustainable order .
Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs book and deliver value to stakeholders.
versusscope, time to complete, impact of Reviews are conducted following all tenders to inflationand exchange rates, and failure to ensure lessons are learnt, captured and applied understand specification changes, contractual tofuture tenders.
terms andhow best to manage them could Investment appraisals are performed and reviewed causefinanciallosses.
The Group analyses If any of the assumptions behind bid strategy the risks associated with revenues and costs and, development and investment decisions prove where appropriate, establishes contractual and incorrect, there is the potential for the business other risk mitigations.
notto win the required work to sustain and Risk movement growshareholder value.
Continued rigour in tendering and estimating combined with an ongoing focus on the value proposition to the Groups customers has seen areductionin exposure.
com AR2018 60 Principal risks continued Influencing the way we work continued Project delivery Causes How it is mitigated Group Failure to implement, maintain and challenge A continued focus on identifying and Owner: management operational and commercial controls as detailed reportingrisks, including the accuracy within checklists at Gate reviews allowing: ofcostandcash forecasting.
unrealistic programming targets Consistent application of strong Build to Trusted commercialmanagement and contract inadequate resource people, plant Lastpillar: administration processes.
and materials Integrated work winning and project delivery unrealistic progress assessments and cost to teams across the Gateway processes to ensure complete judgements which could arise due Risk: decreased expectations are understood and realistic.
topoor training, lack of supervision, lack of accountability or fear of reporting bad news Optimal scheduling of key staff within project delivery teams and senior management, together overly-optimistic claim recovery assumptions Risk description with ongoing and focused training of staff via the Failure to deliver projects at the incomplete visibility and appreciation of scale Balfour Beatty Academy.
required specification on time and ofcommercial judgements Ongoing management assessment of project onbudget to meet the expectations failings in administering the contract terms riskmanagement and control including planning, ofcustomers and minimise the tosafeguard or protect future claims, change programme and resource reviews.
riskofdelay-related damages orders and extensions of time EOTs.
Site Mobilisation Hub in place to facilitate early What impact it might have andeffective start-up on site.
Failure to manage or deliver against contracted Use of innovative and cost-effective engineering customer requirements on time, on budget and technical solutions including the vision for andtothe required quality could result in issues 25%offsite fabrication by 2025. suchas contract disputes, rejected claims, design Drive for defect-free delivery is being embedded issues, liquidated damages, cost overruns and atall levels.
failure to achieve anticipated customer savings Professional indemnity cover in place to provide which in turn couldreduce the Groups further financial safeguards.
Balfour Beatty monitors the performance of The Group may also be exposed to long-term subcontractors and suppliers throughout the obligations including litigation and costs to lifecycle of a project.
Delivery failure on a high-profile project Risk movement couldresultin significant reputational Improvements to the Groups reporting systems damageandcosts.
and increasing traction of its short interval control processes within the early stages of project delivery are providing greater certainty of operational outcomes.
The Group has used the lessons learnt from legacy problem contracts and new disciplines resulting from the Build to Last transformation programme to reduce the risk ofproject delivery.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 61 Joint ventures Causes How it is mitigated The risk could be realised through: All proposals to enter into a joint venture Group Tender and Owner: mustbeauthorised by Group management Investment Committee ineffective assessment of potential partner viatheAgreement to Enter into a Joint Venture including liquidity, capacity and capability procedureat Gate 1 of the review process.
lack of clarity of the delegated levels Build to Trusted The Group undertakes significant due diligence ofauthoritybetween partners Lastpillar: onpotential joint venture partners via the delayed and fettered decision making Gatewayreview process including capacity, processbetween partners capability andliquidity.
Risk: new risk segregation of management systems The Group Tender and Investment Committee financialand operational process is in place to challenge all proposals.
lack of understanding of contract The Group seeks to enter into joint ventures Risk description requirementsand expectations withknown and trusted long-term partners.
Failure of joint ventures to deliver failure to embed Balfour Beatty cultures Experienced Project Directors are appointed expected returns and minimise the and practices.
tomanage the project including an ongoing riskof unexpected liabilities.
assessment of operational delivery risk.
What impact it might have A failure to execute a significant joint Balfour Beatty monitors the performance of its venturecontract could result in a significant joint venture partners throughout the lifecycle  and reputational harm ofaproject.
Best practice including joint reporting systems The failure of a joint venture partner may expose where possible is shared between all partners the Group to increased resourcing costs and toembed the Groups expectations and culture ongoing warranty and insurance risks.
throughout joint venture delivery teams.
Disputes with strategic joint venture partners could Risk movement impact the Groups ability to operate successfully The Group is involved in a number of joint ventures and or expand within its chosen markets.
and recognises that successfully executing these Failure to share and embed the Groups health agreements presents a significant risk.
andsafety management expectations could result This risk represents an amplification of in increased potential for injury and or fatality.
existingbusiness and project delivery risk.
Data governance and cyber security Causes How it is mitigated Group Failure to: Data Protection Officers embedded throughout Owner: management the businesses to ensure breaches are reported comply with the GDPR promptly and risks are appropriately escalated embed required culture and procedure to tothe Group Data Protection Officer for address the ongoing threat of cybercrime Build to consideration and assessment.
Trusted prepare and respond to malicious intent Lastpillar: Data protection programme covering policies, and oratargeted attack procedures and approved access levels in place prevent a breakdown of key security alongside a comprehensive training plan.
Resilience in network, endpoint protection anddata backup.
What impact it might have Crystallisation of this risk has the potential for: All data is stored in secure data centres Risk description withstrengthened back-up procedures.
the business to face legal proceedings, A breach of the Data Protection Act or investigations or disputes resulting in Regular review and communication of the the General Data Protection Regulation businessdisruption, losses, fines, ever-changing cyber threats and how they GDPR and or a failure to protect key  damage manifest themselves in practical guidance that company data or other confidential allemployees and contractors understand.
a reduction or loss of competitive advantage including loss of intellectual property Risk assessment of external providers ofdataandservices.
a negative impact on customer relationships, including loss of confidence All employees are trained in and must complywithGDPR and information security disruption to operational delivery management obligations.
businessas usual exclusion from bidding opportunities.
Risk movement Increased potential for cybercrime due to increased use of data-sharing platforms and standardised operating systems.
com AR2018 62 Principal risks continued Influencing the way we work continued People Causes How it is mitigated Ineffective workload and location scheduling Build to Last has included a range of People Owner: The Board policies and processes under the Expert goal Increased competitor sector strength toimprove the attractiveness of Balfour Beatty and opportunities asthe business people want to join and develop Inability to recruit and retain strong performers Build to their careers.
Since 2015 these measures have Expert Lastpillar: Failure to maintain a culture of pride and been increasingly effective in developing Balfour advocacy across the workforce Beattys culture and attractiveness as an employer and enabling the recruitment and retention of Ineffective and or unfocused training people with the skills and behaviours needed.
Risk: increased Lack of a diverse workforce Specific activities which mitigate this risk include: Restrictions in the availability of skilled labour.
competency frameworks within core job Risk description families identify and support the development What impact it might have Inability to provide the required levels ofkey knowledge, skills and expertise Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled of skilled and competent staff tomeet people could harm the Groups ability to win or recruitment and retention rates are measured the Groups objectives.
perform specific contracts, manage delivery costs, and regularly reviewed across all parts of the grow its business and meet its strategic objectives.
business and succession plans are in place forcore disciplines A high level of staff turnover or low employee engagement could result in a drop in confidence regular reviews of remuneration and incentive inthe business within the market, stakeholder arrangements to ensure they are appropriate confidence being lost and an inability to drive tohelp the Group attract, motivate and retain business improvements.
key employees Group-wide employee engagement surveys areundertaken to measure engagement andappropriate actions are developed and communicated the Balfour Beatty Academy has been established in the UK to provide professional development and knowledge sharing opportunities and to ensure employees feelvalued and specialisms are recognised strong employee communication channels areinplace celebrating individual, business andGroup-level successes affinity networks have been established tocreate a diverse and inclusive working environment emerging talent is supported via a range of graduate, apprenticeship, trainee and industrial placement internship schemes including The5% Club see page 34. in 2019 a Strategic Workforce Planning  to further enhance longerterm planning, of work winning and matching with focused internal and external recruitment activities.
Risk movement To execute the Groups strategy and achieve industry leading margins, the breadth and depth ofleadership and the appropriate capabilities need to be well matched to the opportunities presented.
Akey factor impacting the increase in this risk, which applies to the broader sector, is the long-term visibility and timing of workload whichhas been impacted as a result of ongoing economic uncertainty.
Delays to project commencement create uncertainty and can contribute to skilled resource leaving the industry and make it more difficult to attract people into the sector.
As part ofthe Build to Last transformation programme Balfour Beatty has created a culture with strong people policies and processes in placewhich will continue to mitigate this risk.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 63 Sustaining the transformation programme Causes How it is mitigated Failure to sustain momentum could arise from: Ensuring Build to Last continues to deliver value Owner: The Board isa strategic priority for the Group and is being ineffective communication and reinforcement ledby the Group Chief Executive.
of message Controls include: inadequate resourcing financial, physical Build to All andpeople continuing to reinforce the Build to Last culture Lastpillar: and framework within each business unit complacency within core disciplines senior leadership engagement across new systems and processes being used thebusinesses is clear and frequent Risk: no movement withoutappropriate controls being in place and or tested.
new systems and processes are deployed withtraining plans and in agreed phases What impact it might have Risk description all agreed processes are held on the Inconsistency in working practices could result The Group does not sustain and build BMSandare frequently validated inthe Groups ability to deliver sustained profit upon the good practice, policies and employee surveys form a key part being jeopardised.
procedures and culture of the Build ofthe programme toLast transformation programme.
leaders throughout the business frequently monitor and measure the delivery and impacts of the programme including through the outputs ofthebusiness improvement community senior leadership is well experienced in delivering business transformation successfully.
Financial strength Causes How it is mitigated Failure to manage financial risks, including The Group operates with a centralised treasury Owner: The Board forecasting material exposures, and the financial function that is responsible for managing key resources of the Group that underpin its ability to: financial risks, cash resources and the availability ofliquidity and credit capacity.
meet ongoing liquidity obligations Build to Trusted sothatitremains a going concern The Group maintains significant undrawn term Lastpillar: committed bank facilities with a banking group meet financial covenants as set out ofhigh credit-quality to underpin the liquidity infinancingfacility agreements.
Risk: decreased What impact it might have The Group maintains significant bank and Failure to deliver effectively the required suretybonding facilities to deliver trade finance financialstrength will mean the Group: requirements of the Group on an ongoing basis.
Risk description fails to meet financial covenant tests, as The Group operates standardised reporting, Inability of the Group to maintain the setoutin its financing facility agreements, forecasting and budgeting financial processes.
financial strength required to operate thatwould lead to an event of default if not Thisallows monitoring of the impact of business its business and deliver its objectives.
remediedwithin a specific grace period decisions on financial performance over future fails to pass the required tests that allow time horizons.
ittocontinue to use the going concern Sales across the asset portfolio can be used basisofaccounting in preparing its togenerate cash.
financial statements Risk movement loses the ability to compete for key long-term During the year, the Group has significantly contracts that are critical to the delivery of its strengthened its balance sheet, paying down long-term objectives and viability.
com AR2018 64 Principal risks continued Influencing the way we work continued Supply chain Causes How it is mitigated Group Supply chain failure risk, exacerbated The Group aims to develop long-term Owner: management during, andwhen emerging from, relationshipswith key subcontractors, working tougheconomic conditions closely with them to understand their operations and dependencies.
This includes relationship Over-reliance on a limited number of suppliers Build to mapping with strategic suppliers, including Lean Lack of market capacity Lastpillar: briefingon order book requirements.
Retention of subcontracted parties Contingency plans in place to address inbuoyant markets subcontractor failure, including replacement Risk: increased Inadequate assessment of supply chain partner supplier list.
capabilities and process including quality, safety, All UK trade suppliers and subcontractors are ethics, materials stewardship, child labour, assessed using the Constructionline service forced labour and modern slavery Risk description thatcollects, assesses and monitors standard Supply chain partners are not able Failure to accurately assess project resource company information through a question tomeet the Groups operational requirements and key deliverables setaligned to PAS91, the industry standard expectations and requirements pre-qualification questionnaire.
Unethical treatment of the supply chain.
including availability, financial stability, The risk management framework and technical ability, quality, safety, What impact it might have thegatewayreview process allow for early environmental, social and ethical.
Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result Gates1-4 and ongoing Gate 6 assessment in the Group becoming involved in disputes, having ofthe appropriateness of resource allocation to find a replacement or undertaking the task itself.
This could result in delays, business disruption, The performance of active suppliers is monitored additional costs or a reduction in quality increased and lessons learnt inform future projects.
defects owing to lack of expertise.
My Contribution programme generates ideas Mistreatment of suppliers, subcontractors formore effective procurement and resourcing.
andtheir staff, or poor ethical standards in the supply chain, could lead to legal proceedings, The Group obtains project retentions, bonds investigations or disputes resulting in business and orletters of credit from subcontractors, disruption, losses, fines and penalties, whereappropriate to mitigate the impact reputationaldamage and debarment.
Key supplier audits within projects to ensure theyare in a position to deliver consistently againstrequirements.
Group-wide Code of Conduct and Supplier Code ofConduct, targeted training programmes and related policies and procedures in place.
Risk movement Scheduling, capacity and capability tensions inmarket hotspots has increased the potential forrisk realisation.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 65 Business conduct compliance Causes How it is mitigated Failure to embed the Code of Conduct and Balfour The Business Integrity function promotes, Owner: The Board Beatty values could leave the Group exposed to: monitors, assesses awareness of and provides training on, the Code of Conduct.
The function corruption provides reports to the Audit and Risk Committee bribery Build to and has the full support of the Board.
Trusted Lastpillar: fraud, deception, false claims or false accounting Each business unit, supported by the Business unfair competition practices Integrity function, is responsible for embedding theCode of Conduct.
human rights abuses, such as child and other Risk: no movement labour standards generally, illegal workers, The Group has a range of operational controls human trafficking and modern slavery commercial including procurement, due diligence and risk assessment that are designed to identify unethical treatment of and by the supply chain Risk description and manage risks internally and with third parties.
ethics and values being compromised The Group operates in various markets Independent third-party whistleblowing hotline asaresultof commercial pressures that present business conduct-related anddedicated email are in place and actively other emerging ethical risks.
risks involving fraud, bribery or promoted.
All in-scope complaints are corruption, whether by its own staff independently investigated by the Business What impact it might have orvia third parties such as agents, Integrity function andappropriate action is Failure by the Group, or employees and third partners or subcontractors.
parties acting on its behalf or in partnership, risksare higher in some countries toobserve the highest standards of integrity Balfour Beatty works with a limited number andsectors.
Overall, the construction andconduct could result in legal proceedings ofagents, all of whom are, in addition to the industry has a higher risk profile including prosecution under the UK Bribery Act, Groups due diligence and approval process, thanother industries.
investigations or disputes resulting in business subject to specific contractual clauses, policies disruption, losses, fines and penalties, andagreements.
Legal and regulatory Causes How it is mitigated A failure to recognise or adapt to changes The Group monitors and responds to tax, legal Owner: The Board inapplicable laws affecting the Groups andregulatory developments and requirements businessesmay result from: inthe territories in which it operates.
lack of awareness of the changes made Affected businesses are alerted to changes in the Build to Trusted law and the requirements of them made clear.
ineffective communication of the Lastpillar: requirementsacross relevant business units Local legal and regulatory frameworks are considered as part of any decision to conduct a deliberate breach.
Risk: no movement What impact it might have Appropriate and responsive policies, procedures, The business could face legal proceedings, training and risk management processes are in investigations or disputes resulting in business place throughout the business.
Risk description disruption, losses, fines and penalties, The Group does not adopt and reputationaldamage and exclusion from bidding.
implement all relevant legal, tax Such action could also impact upon the andregulatory requirements.
com AR2018 66 Principal risks continued Influencing the way we work continued Legacy pension liabilities Causes How it is mitigated The Group is unable to ensure that the trustees of The Group constructively engages with the Owner: The Board the pension funds react effectively to or manage: trustees of the pension funds to ensure that they are taking appropriate advice and the funds assets changes in interest rates and liabilities are being managed appropriately.
inflation or life expectancy trends Build to Lean The funding and investment arrangements of the Lastpillar: intervention by regulators or legislators pension funds are subject to an in-depth triennial investment performance of the funds assets.
review with regular monitoring in between.
The Groups main UK fund has hedged in What impact it might have Risk: no movement excessof80% of its exposure to interest Failure to manage these risks adequately rateandinflation movements.
couldlead to the Group being exposed tosignificant additional liabilities due to Risk description increasedpension deficits.
The Group is exposed to and must This has the potential to affect the ongoing effectively manage significant defined sustainability of the Group.
Uncertainty within our economic environment Causes How it is mitigated Failure to plan for any potentially negative The Group primarily operates across three The Board Owner: impacts, or to capture any opportunities geographies UK, US and Hong Kong andthree thatmaybe presented could lead to: sectors Construction Services, Support Services and Infrastructure Investments.
This provides customers postponing, reducing or changing Build to resilience as the Group is less exposed Expert expenditure plans Lastpillar: toadownturn in a single geography or sector.
wider than expected fluctuations in inflation The Group is actively monitoring the potential increased competition e. g. in the UK from impacts of the UK exiting the EU including foreigninvestors acquiring competitors increased Risk: potentialmarket stimulation by the UK Government, increased supply chain risks e. g. solvency, freedom of movement, finance costs, exchange people and materials rates, commodity prices and regulatory changes.
Risk description Awell-established working group comprised of reduced revenue or pressure on margins.
The effects of national or market functional experts is in place for this purpose, What impact it might have trends, political or regulatory change although significant uncertainty remains as to Any significant delay or reduction in the level including the UKs exit from the EU, theimpact of Brexit.
ofcustomer spending or investment plans could may cause customers to re-evaluate The financial solvency and strength of adversely impact the Groups strategy and order existing or future infrastructure counterparties is always considered before book, reducing revenue or profitability in the expenditure and the procurement contracts are signed and assessments are updated nearor medium term.
ofservices and or lead to changes and reviewed whenever possible during the project inthe price and availability of labour Restrictions on the availability of skilled labour lifecycle.
The business also seeks to ensure that and products.
andcompetitively priced materials could lead itisnot over-reliant on any one counterparty.
toincreased costs and hence potentially a Risk movement devaluation of the business.
Macro-economic factors, reduced government Financial failure of a customer, including any spending and delayed decision making on strategic government or public sector body, could result in projects, have the potential to negatively impact increased financial exposure to counterparty risk.
the availability of skilled resource.
This risk has increased in the year.
Common industry-wide risks In parallel with those principal risks faced by the Group, Balfour Beatty faces significant risks and uncertainties that are prevalent to many companies including financial and treasury, communications and marketing, regulatory reporting, information management, business continuityand disaster recovery, and general hazard risks.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018
