Risk identication and escalation Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 55 Risk management A refocus and reinvigoration of risk management Oversight Audit & Risk Committee Effectiveness review Set Policy and drive culture Common risk infrastructure Executive steering group Strategic Risk Register Risk and control reporting cycle Risk management process Project delivery, Strategic Business Units and Enabling Functions Operational review of risk 1.
Monitor The Gated Business Lifecycle Key project risks assessed at each gate Contract Commissioning Defects liability Initial enquiry Tender Mobilisation Execution negotiations & handover period Gate 1 Gate 2 Gate 3 Gate 4 Gate 5 Gate 6 Gate 7 Gate 8 End of Initial Tender Tender Contract Pre-commencement Monitoring Project defects Go No Go Go No Go submission signing and control completion liability approval approval approval approval period balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 Governance: control and mitigation 56 Risk management continued A refocus and reinvigoration of risk management continued Balfour Beattys approach to risk management remained agile and responsive to the Groups operational requirementsand widerindustry good practice throughout 2018.
The enterprise risk management framework was completely reviewed and updated and a more intuitive and dynamic riskreporting process was deployed.
These updates include the development of a new bespoke  package for the UK business IRIS: Intelligent Risk Information System toidentify, assess, respond to and monitor risk.
Oversight Common risk Risk process Assessment infrastructure The Board accepts The dynamic structure of A dedicated enterprise risk Balfour Beattys internal  for risk theGroups risk management management resource is in controlenvironment is management and determines process allows the Group Chief place in each geography and is centredon the Gated Business the nature, extent and Executive to monitor the risk accountable for the consistent Lifecycle with a mandatory potentialtimescale of current profile of the business via the application of the Groups Risk assessment of risk and risk and emerging risks facing the Executive Risk Steering Group.
Management Framework and appetite being made ateach business.
Biannually the Members of the steering group associated processes.
In-house project Directors assess the act as the executive sponsor This supports the businesses management includes assessment and subsequent effectiveness of the risk forrisk management within inmaking decisions based rating of risk and reinforcement management and internal their business and functions onan accurate assessment of the importance of adherence control systems including and as such are in a position to ofrisk.
Pragmatic interaction to the Groups wide-ranging financial, operational and directly influence custom and between operational delivery Minimum Expectations and compliance steps that are practice.
The steering group and enterprise risk teams Operating Standards.
inplace to prevent occurrence undertook acomprehensive enables and encourages a or mitigate impacts.
reassessment of the Group direct understanding, The business has in place Risk Register in 2018 including application and monitoring of several well established and the production of a key risk and the Groups risk attitude and ongoing processes embedded control statement to improve appetite.
2019 will see further within the Gated Business Executive Committee focus.
improvements as IRIS becomes Lifecycle to support this embedded throughout the assessment and manage UKbusiness and assessment theGroups risk exposure.
tools are shared across the wider Group.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 57 Risk appetite Understanding current and emerging risk is at the heart of Balfour Beattys decision-making process.
Throughout 2018 and into 2019 the Board and its Committees and working groups measured the nature and extent of those risks that theGroup is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
This required a thorough review of the effectiveness of its internal control environment.
The outcome of this assessment represents the Groups risk appetite and can be set out in the context of the Groups strategicpriorities as set out below.
Strategic priorities Build to Last Lean Expert Trusted Safe Deliver value to Ensure we have Be the construction We must ensure ourcustomers by thebest engineering, partner of choice thehealth and safety improving operational design and project forour customers of everyone who efficiency and management andsupply chain comes into contact eliminating waste capabilities.
bydelivering on with our activities.
Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Balfour Beatty is committed Balfour Beatty continues Balfour Beatty must deliver Conducting business in tomaximising the value todevelop its expertise in onits promises to stakeholders.
asafeway and providing a ofBuildto Last.
engineering, computer science, ZeroHarm environment for The Group retains a low robotics, data analytics, Balfour Beattys people and In delivering better for less, appetite for risks around electronics and electrical & stakeholders is paramount.
theGroup is prepared to accept meeting customer mechanical engineering to a level of operational risk.
The Groups appetite deliver the very best solutions forsafetyrisk continues Such risks must not be at to its customers.
theexpense of achieving This drive for sustained theoverall lean objective 59 Read more innovation is undertaken with Health and safety ormeeting customer industry experts in managed 33 58 requirements.
Project delivery Read more and safe environments to The Groups risk appetite for minimise risk.
60 Read more Transformation programme efficiency remains moderate.
The Group continues to 12 63 Joint ventures Read more haveamoderate appetite Transformation programme forexpert risk.
61 Read more 12 63 Read more People Data governance Supply chain 62 Read more 61 Read more 64 Read more Transformation programme Transformation programme Legacy pension liabilities 12 63 12 63 Read more Read more 66 Read more Economic environment Financial strength 66 Read more 63 Read more Business conduct 65 Read more Legal and regulatory 65 Read more balfourbeatty.
