Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Executive Management continued Nomination Committee Report Ramaz Kukuladze Planning for our future in Deputy CEO, SME and Premium Retail Business Banking the best interests of our shareholders Mr Kukuladze was appointed as Deputy CEO, SME and Premium Retail Banking in February 2017.
Prior to his current role, Mr Kukuladze held the joint role of Chief Commercial Officer and Deputy CEO at Bank Republic since 2013, having previously served as the Chief Commercial Officer since 2011.
Before working at Bank Republic, Socit Gnrale Group, Mr Kukuladze spent two years working for Silknet as Deputy CEO, in charge of commercial business.
Mr Kukuladze first joined the Bank in 2006 and served as a Deputy CEO, Corporate Banking until 2009.
Before joining the Bank, Mr Kukuladze served as CEO of BCI Insurance Company, an insurance company founded by him in 1998, which later was acquired by the Group.
Mr Kukuladze received his MBA from IE Business School.
Neil Janin Vasil Khodeli Chairman of the Deputy CEO, Corporate Investment Banking Nomination Committee Mr Khodeli was appointed as Deputy CEO, Corporate Investment Banking in September 2017, having previously served Dear Shareholders, as Head of Corporate Banking of the Bank since 2004.
He has more than 20 years of banking experience and has held various roles with the Bank since 2004.
Mr Khodeli has been actively involved in shaping the Banks Corporate Banking I am delighted to present the report of the Nomination Mr Wolf has also been appointed to the Audit and business platform since its launch.
He holds an MBA degree from Grenoble Business School.
The report contains full details of the Nomination Committees, and Ms McCarroll to the Risk processes we adopted to appoint our new Chief Executive, and Nomination Committees.
We believe that the skills, Archil Gachechiladze, and our two new Non-Executive experience, knowledge and attributes of the members Directors, Vronique McCarroll and Andreas Wolf.
of our Board and Executive Management are the key drivers for successful delivery of the Groups strategic In December 2018 it was announced that Kaha and financial objectives.
These appointments help ensure Kiknavelidze would be stepping down from the Board that fresh perspective and challenge are brought to the George Chiladze and as CEO.
The Committee acted quickly to recruit a decision-making process.
new CEO who could take the Group forward into the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer next chapter of its story.
After the Committee and In addition, following the Demerger of the Group, the candidates underwent the process described herein, Committee undertook a significant amount of work to Mr Chiladze was appointed as Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer in September 2013.
He re-joined the Bank having already ArchilGachechiladze was the unanimous recommendation separate some functions of the Investment Business served as Deputy CEO, Finance from 2008 to 2012.
From 2012 to 2013, Mr Chiladze was Deputy CEO at the Partnership of the Committee.
Archil brings a strong strategic and Banking Business and to reposition the management Fund, and he served as general director of BTA Bank Georgia from 2005 to 2008.
Prior to joining BTA Bank, he was perspective, with an excellent track record of delivering team.
This gave us the opportunity to ensure that there an executive member of the Supervisory Board of JSC Europace Insurance Company and a founding partner of the growth in the Georgian banking environment.
He is an is a pipeline of talent immediately below the Board as part management consulting firm, Altergroup Ltd. Mr Chiladze had previously worked in the US at the Programme Trading extremely strong business leader with great drive and of our overall review of succession planning.
We believe Desk at Bear Stearns in New York City, prior to returning to Georgia in 2003.
Mr Chiladze received a PhD in Physics from will bring these skills and experience to the organisation.
that the right mixture of talent, experience and diversity Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland and an undergraduate degree in Physics from Tbilisi State University.
The Board is looking forward to working with him.
at senior management level is vital to the continued success of the Group and to our aim of attracting and We were delighted to appoint two new Directors to inspiring the best people possible.
the Board, Andreas Wolf and Vronique McCarroll, from 1 October 2018.
Having carefully reviewed the I invite you to read more about our work in the balance of skills and experience amongst the existing following report.
Board members, we identified areas where we thought additional expertise may be required.
With more than Neil Janin Vakhtang Bobokhidze 12 years experience in the financial sector in Europe and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Deputy CEO, Chief Information Officer Asia, including Georgia, Andreas brings valuable expertise 27 March 2019 in the field of banking digitisation.
Vronique is a highly accomplished professional with more than 30 years Mr Bobokhidze was appointed as Deputy CEO, Chief Information Officer in March 2018, prior to which he served as background in corporate and investment banking, risk Head of IT since April 2016.
He joined the Bank in late 2005 as a Quality Control Manager through a progression of management and credit within consulting and technology positions until he joined JSC Bank Republic in 2010.
Mr Bobokhidze made his return to the Bank in December 2010 firms and also at one of the largest banks in the world.
as IT Business Consultant and he currently holds the position Chief Information Officer.
He received his undergraduate and MBA degree from Tbilisi State University.
116 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 117 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Nomination Committee Report continued The Nomination Committee undertook a review of its Terms Using the candidate specification, and mindful of The role of the Nomination Committee Diversity policy of Reference in December 2018 and agreed upon necessary the Diversity Policy discussed below, the Nomination The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist in The Board has adopted a Diversity policy, mirroring revisions to ensure the responsibilities of the Committee Committee drew up a shortlist of eligible candidates.
ensuring that the Board comprises individuals who are current best practice, which was most recently reviewed were aligned with those set out in the 2018 UK Corporate Before the role was offered to Archil Gachechiladze, best able to discharge the responsibilities of Directors, in December 2018.
Governance Code, which applies to the Group from 1 January he met with each Independent Director to discuss the having regard to the highest standards of governance, 2019.
The full Terms of Reference are available on our position.
Following these meetings, the Nomination the strategic direction of the Group and ambitions Diversity of skills, background, experience, knowledge, website at https: bankofgeorgiagroup.
com governance Committee unanimously recommended the appointment of the Board in respect of diversity and inclusion.
We outlook, approach, gender, nationality and ethnicity, documents.
of Archil Gachechiladze as CEO and Director to the Board.
also monitor the processes in place to ensure that the amongst other factors, will be taken into consideration The Nomination Committee has recommended that Group appoints excellent executive managers capable of when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
the Board support Archils election to the Board at our successfully guiding their teams and delivering the Groups Similarly, we are clear that diversity of outlook and Composition and members meeting 2019 AGM.
approach, while inevitably being difficult to measure, attendance may be equally as important.
The composition of the Nomination Committee and the Mr Gachechiladze has commenced an induction In summary, the key responsibilities of the Nomination members meeting attendance for the year are set out in programme, including: Committee include: As a Board, we are supportive of the ambition shown in the Board and Committee Meeting Attendance table on meetings with senior management and employees a regular review of the composition of the Board recent reviews on diversity, including the Davies Review page 106. across the business to understand the Companys and its Committees to ensure they are appropriately and the Hampton-Alexander Review, and will continue strategy and structure and the Companys risk profile constituted and balanced in terms of gender, social and to examine ways in which we can increase female In order to maintain the right balance of skills and and risk management procedures: ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and personal strengths, representation at Board and senior management level.
knowledge on our Board, the Nomination Committee meetings with major shareholders and a range of and balance in terms of skills, experience, independence, While we do not currently employ any formal diversity keeps Board composition under continual review.
In stakeholders, including the Companys external advisors and knowledge: targets at Board level, the Nomination Committee will addition, as part of the Board effectiveness review, and senior governmental figures: and responsibility for identifying and nominating for continue to keep this approach under review.
the Committee asks Board members to evaluate a session with the Company Sectretary on the the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board their own contribution.
For each Non-Executive statutory and regulatory obligations of the Company.
vacancies as and when they arise: The Nomination Committee was pleased to note the Director, the Nomination Committee reviews the time giving full consideration to succession planning for November 2018 edition of the Hampton-Alexander Review commitment required by them, taking into account Directors, including the Chairman and CEO and other report, which indicated that the Bank of Georgia Group Appointment of Independent Directors any external directorships, their length of service as senior executives, taking into account the challenges PLC was one of the highest performing banks listed in the We did not engage an external search consultancy for the well as independence of character and integrity.
It then and opportunities facing the Company, and the skills FTSE 350: the Groups female representation in executive appointments of Mr Wolf and Ms McCarroll.
Instead, we recommends to the Board whether each Non-Executive and expertise needed on the Board in the future: committee and direct reporting positions, a combined were provided with a broad range of candidates from our Director should be re-appointed.
keeping under review the leadership needs of the total of 40.7%, is considerably above the average in the extended network and also from our targeted advertising Company, both executive and non-executive, FTSE 350 30.7%.
This is a tribute to some of the talent on websites.
This was appropriate because these sources Following careful consideration of a range of factors, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the development and management processes and initiatives generated a shortlist of candidates with the particular including Directors other commitments and the outcomes Company to compete effectively in the marketplace: we have in place, detailed below.
skills the Board had identified during the Demerger of this years Board and Committee effectiveness review, making recommendations to the Board on the reprocess as needing to be filled, from which Mr Wolf and which concluded that the Board functions as an effective appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the We are committed to sustaining and developing our Ms McCarroll were chosen after a series of interviews.
and efficient team, and with regard to the required skills conclusion of their specified term of office having given gender balance and wider diversity in 2019 and will oversee on the Board to meet current and future priorities, the due regard to their performance and ability to continue the following initiatives to help us achieve these goals: A full induction programme was provided to Mr Wolf Committee is pleased to recommend to shareholders, to contribute to the Board in light of the knowledge, and Ms McCarroll, including an explanation of the through the Board, the election of Neil Janin, Archil skills and experience required and their independence: 1.
Women leaders mentoring programme: Each woman requirements placed upon Directors by UK law.
Gachechiladze, Hanna Loikkanen, Tamaz Georgadze, and in the Leadership Talent Pool currently 49 in total Al Breach, Jonathan Muir, Cecil Quillen, Vronique McCarroll, making recommendations to the Board concerning will have an individual development plan tailored to and Andreas Wolf at our 2019 Annual General Meeting.
Continuing education and training the re-election by shareholders of Directors under her developmental areas.
Nine will be nominated as During the year, Committee members received training the annual re-election provisions of the UK Corporate candidates for progression to Management Board level on the National Bank of Georgias new Corporate Appointment of the Chief Executive Officer Governance Code or the retirement by rotation and will be mentored by Management Board members Governance Code for Commercial Banks and both the Following the announcement of Kaha Kiknavelidzes provisions in the Companys Articles of Association, to offer practical guidance and experience.
current and new UK Corporate Governance Codes, intention to step down from the Board, the Nomination having due regard to their performance and ability including the required composition of the Board and Board Committee acted quickly to find and appoint a new Chief to continue to contribute to the Board in light of the 2.
Entrepreneurs event: A free event, tailored towards Committees, and proposed changes to the UK Corporate Executive Officer and Board member.
As an initial step, knowledge, skills and experience required and their female entrepreneurs, will aim to promote and support Governance Code and diversity initiatives.
the role description and candidate specification were independence, bearing in mind the need for progressive the success of small start-up companies and charities, drawn up and agreed by the Nomination Committee.
refreshing of the Board particularly in relation to by providing advice on business-related issues, such as Detailed qualities and requirements included candidates Directors being re-elected for a term beyond six years.
approach to strategy, mode of leadership, engagement with stakeholders, ability to deliver financial KPIs, certain 3.
Sessions for staff with Board members and successful values and qualities including those promoted by our Georgian women leaders: In a business caf style Talent development programmes, on pages 119 to 120 setting, we will share stories of success between and their experience in banking.
Exploratory talks were held guests and staff, and host discussion sessions on with a global recruitment agency but, given Committee other related issues.
members knowledge of potential candidates in the Georgian market, the Nomination Committee decided that no additional value would be obtained through appointment of external advisors to assist with the search.
118 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 119 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Nomination Committee Report continued Audit Committee Succession planning Review of Board and Committees Report The Chairmans introduction to this report sets out the effectiveness succession planning and ongoing recruitment efforts The Nomination Committee facilitated internal Upholding integrity, undertaken in respect of the Demerger and new Boards effectiveness reviews undertaken by the Board and its transparency and of each of the two demerged businesses.
Committees have reported individually, accountability elsewhere in this Annual Report, on the outcomes of their One priority for 2019 is to analyse the current skills and reviews.
These were administered via surveys, with the competencies amongst the Boards membership, which opportunity to provide anonymous feedback collated via will be used to review the skills, competencies, cognitive the Company Secretary, Link Company Matters Limited.
and personality diversity, gender and nationality diversity of the present Board and to identify gaps and areas The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent for improvement, including from a diversity perspective, Director, are responsible for the annual evaluation of and to help with succession planning and recruiting.
the Chairmans performance and this was carried out in December 2018.
As part of this process, the Nomination Talent development Committee reviewed its own effectiveness.
On the basis We are committed to talent development programmes of this, the Committee will spend time in 2019 reviewing and initiatives within the Group.
We increase the skills of succession plans within the Executive Management and our existing executive managers and develop a pipeline initiatives to encourage talent development across the of new executive, senior and middle managers through Group, with a particular focus on digitalisation.
coaching, mentoring and leadership programmes.
Jonathan Muir We continue to expand our programme year-on-year to Chairman of the Audit include management at lower levels.
Career progression Committee is tangible if our managers have the right mindset and work ethic.
The Board also met with members of middle management throughout the year.
I am delighted to provide my first report as Chairman of The Committee also worked with management and the Audit Committee the Committee on its activities.
the external auditor to review the changes required in Our talent development programmes continue to be response to the introduction of new accounting standards, characterised by transparency, viewing oneself as part Generally, the Committee recommends the financial particularly IFRS 9 for financial instruments recognition of a team of leaders, helping others to succeed and honest statements to the Board and reviews the Groups financial and measurement.
They are also focused on the promotion of reporting and accounting policies, including formal teamwork and development of teams, aiming to teach announcements and trading statements relating to the Towards the end of the year, the Committee agreed managers to: Companys financial performance.
It also oversees the new terms of reference to reflect the revised UK have the courage to give and seek feedback: relationship with Ernst & Young LLP EY, the Groups Corporate Governance Code.
In 2019, the Committee realise that a stronger me plus a stronger you makes external auditor, and the role and effectiveness of the will expand its role to include corporate governance a stronger us: internal audit function.
of the Bank as required by the National Bank of Georgia.
value meritocracy over favouritism: encourage challenge and dialogue instead During the year, we saw a number of significant The Committee reviewed and approved the internal of authoritative decision-making: and changes, including: audit plan and execution for 2018.
The Committee also favour cooperation over individualistic or the impact of the Demerger of BGEO Group PLC into continued to ensure the integrity of the Companys heroic behaviour.
the Bank of Georgia Group PLC and Georgia Capital published financial information and reviewed the PLC, on financial statements, people and processes: judgements made by management and the assumptions new accounting standards including IFRS 9 and 16 and estimates on which they are based.
effective from 1 January 2019 : changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code: I, and the Committee more widely, firmly believe that the role of the Committee in corporate governance the Group has strong foundations in place in terms of as required by the National Bank of Georgia: and risk management and internal control processes and a new Head of Internal Audit, Nino Gordeladze.
structures and I look forward to the Committee playing a very active role in continuing to build upon these In response to these changes, and as well as its routine foundations over the course of 2019. business, the Committee monitored, reviewed and commented on the changes to control, people and I now invite you to read this years Committee report.
reporting necessitated by the Demerger and satisfied itself on the various impacts on the Group including its Jonathan Muir internal controls, and reporting.
In addition, as a direct Chairman of the Audit Committee impact of the Demerger, some changes were made 27 March 2019 to the Committees composition.
I was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee and: Cecil Quillen and Tamaz Georgadze were appointed on 24 February 2018: and Andreas Wolf was appointed on 1 October 2018.
120 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 121 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Audit Committee Report continued Matter considered Action taken Composition and operations of the External audit The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on Pension reform Noted the introduction of mandatory With respect to our responsibilities for the external audit Audit Committee how it has discharged its responsibilities at a subsequent contributions to the Georgian process on behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee: The composition of the Committee complies with the Board meeting.
Pension Agency from January 2019, approved the annual audit plan, which included setting 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, to be recognised as part of salaries the areas of responsibility, scope and materiality of which provides that the Committee should comprise and other employee benefit the audit and key risks identified: Financial reporting of at least three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Groups Georgian oversaw the audit engagement, including the degree The Committee received detailed reporting from the The Committee members are Jonathan Muir Chairman, companies, including the Bank, to which the external auditor was able to assess CFO and external auditor in respect of key areas of Hanna Loikkanen, Cecil Quillen and Andreas Wolf, all of will double their contributions key accounting and audit judgement: management judgement, reporting and audit during the whom are independent.
The Board is satisfied that at to employees pensions under reviewed the findings of the external audit with the year.
The Committee and the external auditor, without least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and this initiative.
external auditor, including the level of errors identified management present, discussed the key areas of audit relevant financial experience and competence relevant during the audit: focus, the suitability of the accounting policies which to the sector in which the Company operates.
Mr Muir is monitored managements responsiveness to the have been adopted and whether managements key a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of The Committee also received regular reports on recoveries external auditors findings and recommendations: reporting estimates and judgements were appropriate.
England and Wales and has both accounting and auditing and write-offs of loans, and a report on non-recurring reviewed the qualifications, expertise and resources Considering the external auditors assessment of risk, but experience.
Full details of the Committee members losses arising from sale of assets.
of the external auditor: also using our own independent knowledge of the Group, qualifications can be found on pages 111 to 114 of monitored the external auditors independence, we reviewed and challenged where necessary the actions, this Report.
Internal Audit objectivity and compliance with ethical, professional estimates and judgements of management in relation The Audit Committee is responsible, on behalf of the and regulatory requirement: to the preparation of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee works to a planned programme Board, for overseeing the Internal Audit function, which reviewed audit fees: of activities focused on key events in the annual financial serves as the Groups independent assurance over the monitored the rotation of key partners in accordance The significant accounting matters and financial reporting cycle and standing items that it considers adequacy and effectiveness of the systems and processes with applicable legislation: and judgements considered by the Committee in relation regularly under its Terms of Reference.
The Terms of risk management and control across the Group.
recommended the appointment, re-appointment to the financial statements are addressed below.
of Reference, as reviewed and updated in December or removal, as applicable, of the external auditor.
2018, are available at: https: bankofgeorgiagroup.
Matter considered Action taken The Audit Committee monitors the scope, extent and com governance documents.
It also reacts to business effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
Valuation of the Reviewed reports from independent Auditor independence developments as they arise.
It reviews and approves the Internal Audit Policy and Banks investment valuers on a sample of the Banks To safeguard the auditors independence and objectivity, oversees the internal audit plan, which is designed using property properties, as well as broader market the Group has a policy on non-audit services which Attendance at meetings by Committee members a risk-based approach aligned with the overall strategy research results.
In addition, is approved and maintained by the Audit Committee.
during the year can be found on page 106 of this Report.
Regular reports are received from Internal assurance was received from the It is available at https: bankofgeorgiagroup.
com The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee Audit on audit activities and significant findings as well external auditors review of the governance documents.
The meetings are also attended as corrective measures and follow-up.
by the Banks Chief Finance Officer, Chief Risk Officer, The Committee was satisfied that The Audit Committee has formally assessed the Head of Internal Audit and Head of Compliance.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit market conditions did not warrant independence of EY, which included the review of: i a Representatives of EY also attend meetings.
The Groups Committee and the opportunity to discuss matters a full portfolio revaluation.
report from EY describing their arrangements to identify, Chief Executive Officer, General Counsel and UK General with the Audit Committee without other members of Separately, the Committee approved report and manage any conflicts of interest, and their Counsel attend as required.
The Audit Committee also monitors the reclassification of a proportion policies and procedures for maintaining independence and the staffing of the Internal Audit department as well as of the portfolio from investment monitoring compliance with relevant requirements: and Private meetings the relevant qualifications and experience of the team.
property IAS 40 to assets held ii the value of non-audit services provided by EY.
EY has During the year, the Committee met privately, without for sale IFRS 5. also confirmed its independence throughout the year, management present, with the Banks CFO, EY and the A review was also conducted of the effectiveness of the Litigation Reviewed litigation that could be within the meaning of the regulations on this matter Head of Internal Audit.
The Chairman of the Committee Internal Audit department by considering the progress material to the Company and and in accordance with their professional standards.
also held discussions with the lead audit partner in of Internal Audit against the agreed plan, considering whether a provision for contingent As indicated in Note 23 of the audited IFRS financial advance of meetings.
The focus of these private meetings the need to respond to changes in the Groups business liabilities was required in respect of statements for 2018 the total fees paid to EY for the year was to encourage discussion of any issues of concern and the external environment.
The Audit Committee also such cases.
For further information ended 31 December 2018 were GEL 5.8 million of which in more detail and directly with the external auditor considered the quality of the reporting by Internal Audit to please see Note 19 on page 243 of GEL 4.2 million related to work other than the audit or and Banks Head of Internal Audit.
the Audit Committee and the ability of Internal Audit to this report.
review of the interim accounts, from which GEL 2.1 million address unsatisfactory results.
On this basis, it concluded was paid by demerged entities: JSC Georgia Capital and IFRS 9 and Received regular reports on, and The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the AGM that the Internal Audit function is effective and respected Georgia Capital PLC.
IFRS 16 discussed with management, the to respond to any shareholder questions that may be by management, and that it conforms to the standards implementation practical measures being put in place raised on the Audit Committees activities.
set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees exceeds 1:1. to implement IFRS 9 from 1 January However, nearly all of the non-audit fees relate to 2018 and IFRS 16 from 1 January Key purpose and responsibilities reporting accountant services provided in relation to the 2019, and were satisfied by progress On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee safeguards Demerger.
The Committee is convinced that appointing at year-end.
high standards of integrity and oversees conduct in EY to undertake these services was the most efficient financial reporting, internal control and risk management method of achieving them.
The Audit Committee together with the Risk Committee and Internal Audit.
and EY do not consider that this work compromises It also oversees the work of our external auditor.
A full the independence of the external auditor.
description of the Committees roles and responsibilities is set out in the Terms of Reference.
122 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 123 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Audit Committee Report continued Effectiveness Audit tender and lead partner rotation Whistleblowing, conflicts of interest, The Audit Committee has an established framework for EY was appointed by the Board of BGEO Group plc With respect to external assurance, the Audit assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process.
as Group statutory auditor in 2012, and subsequently anti-bribery and anti-corruption, Committee reviews the external auditors reports This includes: re-appointed by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
EY was to the Audit Committee, which include the external data protection a review of the audit plan, including the materiality level appointed as auditors of Bank of Georgia Group PLC in auditors observations on risk management and internal The Committee ensures that there are effective set by the auditor and the process they have adopted 2018 ahead of the Demerger.
We believe that appointing financial controls identified as part of its audit.
Without procedures relating to whistleblowing, and a policy is in to identify financial statement risks and key areas of EY as our auditor subject to shareholder approval is in management present, the Committee and EY discussed place allowing staff to confidentially raise any concerns audit focus: the best interests of shareholders given EYs continued the key areas of audit focus, the suitability of the about business practices and is kept under review.
In 2018, regular communications between the external auditor independence, objectivity and performance on the audits accounting policies which have been adopted and whether following the Demerger, the Group also implemented and both the Committee and management, including they have completed, following assessment of their managements key reporting estimates and judgements Whistle B, an advanced independent whistleblowing discussion of regular papers prepared by management effectiveness by the Committee.
reporting channel and case management tool to replace and EY: its existing whistleblowing platform.
The Audit Committee regular discussions with EY without management The Company complied with the mandatory audit also reviewed additional measures being put in place to Fair, balanced and understandable reporting present and management without EY present to processes and the Committee complied with the improve the robustness of the whistleblowing processes.
The Committee reviewed this Annual Report and Accounts discuss the external audit process: responsibility provisions set out in terms of the to consider whether it is fair, balanced and understandable a review of the final audit report, noting key areas Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit In line with the new UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, and provides the information necessary for shareholders of auditor judgement and the reasoning behind the Services Order 2014 CMA Order relating to a putting responsibility for the whistleblowing process passed to to assess the Groups performance, business model and conclusions reached: the audit services engagement on tender every ten years: the Board at the end of the year.
However, as part of our strategy.
We gained assurance that there is a robust and b strengthening the accountability of the external a review of EYs 2018 Transparency Report and the broader work on Fraud Risk Management and culture, process of review and challenge at different levels within auditor to the Committee, including requiring that only the annual FRC Audit Quality Inspection Report of EY: and we will continue to monitor use of the system.
the Group to ensure balance and consistency.
We also Committee is permitted to agree to the external auditors a formal questionnaire issued to all Committee discussed the overall messages and tone of the Annual fees and scope of services: influence the appointment of members and to the executive management of the The Committee reviews the Groups Anti-Bribery and Report with the Banks CEO and CFO.
We also considered the audit engagement partner: make recommendations Group leading the audit which covers among other Anti-Corruption Policy and procedures and receives other information regarding performance presented to regarding the appointment of auditors: and authorise the items the quality of the audit and audit team, the audit reports from management on a regular basis in relation the Board during the period, from both management auditors to carry out non-audit services.
The Committee planning approach and execution, the presence and to any actual or potential wrong-doing.
There were and the external auditor.
After consideration of all this confirms compliance with the provisions of the CMA Order capabilities of the lead audit partner, the audit teams no significant findings in 2018.
The Audit Committee information, we are satisfied that the Annual Report and for the year ended 31 December 2018. communication with the Committee and management monitored the introduction of the Groups response Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable, and and the auditors independence and objectivity.
to the new General Data Protection Regulation.
provide the information necessary for shareholders to The Group will be required to put the external audit assess performance, business model and strategy.
contract out to tender no later than 2027 although this Following the Audit Committees assessment of the Risk management and internal controls date is under review.
We continue to review the auditor external auditor, it formed its own judgement which Although the Board assumes ultimate responsibility Committee effectiveness appointment and, following the Demerger in 2018, will in was consistent with managements view and reported for the Groups risk management and internal control Towards the end of the year, the Committee reviewed 2019 consider the appropriate time to next tender for the to the Board that: framework, its work is supported by both our Committee its effectiveness as part of a broader review of all Board provision of audit services to the Company.
EY appointed the audit team was sound and reliable, providing and the Risk Committee.
committees effectiveness facilitated by the Company John Headley as BGEO Group PLCs lead audit partner high-quality execution and service: Secretary.
A key development arising from this exercise responsible for the Group.
the quality of the audit work was of a high standard: The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its is a plan to hold quarterly joint discussions with the EYs independence and objectivity were affirmed: responsibility to review the adequacy and effectiveness Risk Committee from 2019 onwards, in addition to the EY was able to challenge management on its approach Viability statement of the controls over financial reporting and certain areas Committees current meeting schedule.
These will allow to key judgements: and In accordance with the Code, the Directors are required to of operational risk: IT and information security including the Committee to be more efficient, with time for more appropriate discussions were held with the Audit assess the viability of the Group.
In collaboration with the cyber-security, corporate security and similar areas detailed examination of matters deep dives during Committee during the audit planning process.
Risk Committee, and considering the recommendations of operational risk and internal and external fraud the Committees meetings, and discussion during the of the FRC guidance, we spent time considering the or misconduct.
joint sessions of issues, primarily operational risks, EY was re-appointed by shareholders at the predecessor timeframe over which the viability statement should be which cut across both audit and risk.
companys 2018 BGEO Group plc AGM and the Committee made as well as an assessment underlying the period The Committee also monitors the Groups compliance was authorised to set the remuneration of the auditor of coverage, which we agreed should be three years.
In with the corporate governance policies and procedures by 99.96% and 99.90% votes in favour respectively.
The addition to aligning with the period covered by the Groups related to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, conflicts Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that strategy and financial forecasts, this three-year period of interest and whistleblowing.
EY be appointed under the current external audit contract seems particularly appropriate for BOGG whose business and EY has expressed its willingness to continue as model continues to evolve in a rapidly developing market For 2018, the internal audit plan included a thorough auditor of the Group.
Separate resolutions proposing like that of Georgia.
We considered: the Groups principal risk management and internal control assessment, EYs appointment and determination of EYs remuneration risks and uncertainties, including those that will threaten including compliance with corporate governance policies by the Committee will be proposed at the 2019 AGM.
its business model, future performance and solvency and procedures.
During 2018 and up to the date of this or liquidity: the current financial position of the Group, Annual Report and Accounts, Internal Audit did not including future cash flows, allocated capital expenditure find any material weaknesses in the risk management and funding requirements: prospects: and downside stress processes or internal controls.
We challenged the reports tests involving several different scenarios.
by management and Internal Audit and requested data regarding compliance with key policies and procedures related to operational risk.
124 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 125 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Risk Committee Key purpose and responsibilities Composition of the Risk Committee Report The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board and meetings in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to the oversight Safeguarding Our Risk Committee has a majority of Independent Nonof risk and to provide advice in relation to current and Executive Directors including a Non-Executive Chairman.
shareholder value potential future risk exposures.
This includes reviewing The Risk Committee members are Tamaz Georgadze the Groups risk appetite and risk profile, the desired Chairman, Al Breach, Vronique McCarroll and the culture and how it has been embedded, assessing the ChiefExecutive Officer, Archil Gachechiladze.
Jonathan effectiveness of the risk management framework and Muir stepped down as a member of the Risk Committee systems of internal control, and the Groups capability on 31 December 2018.
Details of attendance are on to identify and manage new types of risk.
The key responsibilities of the Risk Committee are to: In addition to the members, George Chiladze, the Banks support the Board to ensure that risk appetite Chief Risk Officer, attends all meetings.
From time to time, and exposure are addressed as part of strategy: other members of management are invited to provide a oversee the risk management infrastructure and deeper level of insight into key issues and developments.
process, and risk exposure: In addition, non-Committee Board members are also support the Board in monitoring risk exposure and invited to attend.
Meetings of the Risk Committee the implementation of our strategy to address risk: take place prior to the Board meeting in order for the assess, review and challenge the emerging and principal Risk Committee to report its activities and matters of risks facing the Company, including those which would particular relevance to the Board.
threaten its business model, future performance, Tamaz Georgadze solvency or liquidity: Over the course of the year the Risk Committee considers Chairman of the Risk Committee oversee, support and evaluate the risk management a range of reports which provide analysis of: the Groups roles of our executive management risk team: overall risk profile using both quantitative models and risk encourage and ensure open and broad discussion analytics: changes to the loan portfolio: key risk exposures, Dear Shareholders, on perceived risk concerns and responsive efforts with detail of how they are being managed: performance to mitigate when necessary: against risk appetite: emerging and potential risks, the I begin my first report as Chairman of the Risk Committee Further detail of the Risk Committees work in 2018 assess the adequacy and quality of the risk drivers of risk throughout the Group: and analysis of by paying tribute to the work of colleagues of the Group.
is set out in the following report.
management function in conjunction with the Audit stress testing scenarios and the results of stress tests It has been a year of significant change, but throughout Committee and the effectiveness of risk reporting and reverse stress tests.
The underlying assumptions, it all the business has continued to target effective Tamaz Georgadze within the Group: and methodology and results of these tests are reviewed risk management as a means of ensuring there is Chairman of the Risk Committee in collaboration with the Audit Committee, review and challenged by the Risk Committee.
a sound underpinning to the achievement of our 27 March 2019 the principal risks and uncertainties disclosures in the strategic objectives.
Half-Year and Annual Reports, and assist with the An overview of our risk management framework External risks formulation of the longer-term viability statement.
During the year, we have seen a further move towards is set out on pages 48 to 59.
Discussions on the macroeconomic situation and political more responsible and prudent lending in a previously risks took place at the Board meetings and provided The principal risk categories overseen by the Risk more liberal, unregulated consumer finance landscape A description of principal risks and uncertainties, context to the Risk Committees discussions on the Committee include credit, interest rate, currency FX, in Georgia, with guidelines introduced by our regulator, in addition to recent trends and outlook, as well as Groups management of financial risks.
Weaknesses in and counterparty risks.
We work closely with the the National Bank of Georgia, coming into force earlier mitigation efforts can be found on pages 60 to 67. neighbouring currencies weighed on Georgian Lari during Audit Committee to consider operational risks including in 2018 and at the start of 2019.
We have adapted 2018, pushing it to historic lows against both the US Dollar cyber-security, anti-fraud and bribery controls, information well to the changing landscape and the Risk Committee and the Euro.
Looking ahead, we remain alert to the systems, compliance and financial crime.
The Risk has maintained a keen focus on ensuring that the possibility that weaknesses in neighbouring economies Committee also considers external risks arising consequent changes to our loan profile do not expose will detract from economic growth in Georgia this year.
from macroeconomic issues, regional stability and us to unnecessary risk.
The credit portfolio extended its growth at c. 21% in 2018, We recognise that there are challenges in the global with Retail Banking loans growing at c. 24%.
However, The Risk Committees full Terms of Reference are available macroeconomic environment.
The potential implications the ratio of household debt to GDP remains lower than on our website at https: bankofgeorgiagroup.
com on the Georgian economy, and the consequent impact in most European countries.
The National Bank of Georgia governance documents.
These were reviewed in December upon the Group, are areas of focus for us during 2019. introduced regulations on responsible consumer lending in 2018 to reflect the requirements of the 2018 UK Corporate Related to this, and in line with the requirements of the 2018.
Furthermore, as part of initiatives to fide-dollarise the Governance Code.
UK Corporate Governance Code, we intend to do more Georgian economy, effective from 1 January 2019 all loans to consider emerging risks and undertake more forwardbelow GEL 200,000 must be issued in local currency only.
On the back of these initiatives, we now expect the annual growth of the Retail Banking loan portfolio to be within the range of 15-20%.
We do not expect further material changes from the regulatory perspective.
126 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 127 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Risk Committee Report continued Directors Remuneration We also carried out a robust review of the principal Financial risks and our loan book Report risks and uncertainties disclosure and other relevant The Risk Committee receives regular updates on the risk management disclosures and reported to the Board top 20 corporate exposures and managements plans Aligning incentivisation with our recommendation on their inclusion in this to manage these through initiatives including increasing with the long-term Annual Report and the Half-Year Report.
local currency loans and analysis of retail borrowers debt bearing capacity.
Reports are discussed at scheduled success of the Group Finally, we assisted with the formulation of the viability meetings and, where necessary, during informal interim statement in conjunction with the Audit Committee and calls with management.
The Group has had a multi-year management.
The viability statement can be found on programme to reduce its concentration risk, and the top page 68. ten exposures now comprise 9.8% of the loan book, down from 10.7% at the end of 2017 and a level at which we can take more comfort.
We also stress test the impact on the Risk Committee effectiveness review Group of distress amongst these creditors and a broader The Risk Committee self-assessed its effectiveness economic downturn.
Both internally-developed stress tests towards the end of the year.
The Directors evaluation and one using NBG-specified criteria were considered.
was that the Risk Committee assesses and challenges the principal risks facing the Group and that the Risk We closely monitored NPL levels and management Committee operates and performs effectively.
actions to assure adequate coverage of our loan loss exposure.
Our NPL coverage ratio changed from 92.7% During 2019, the Risk Committee will prioritise further at 31 December 2017 to 90.5% at 31 December 2018. work to formalise the Banks risk appetite and tolerance Alasdair Breach We regularly review the write-off and recovery of loans, levels for all risk types.
We will keep under review the Chairman of the and the overdue rate on the Retail Banking side.
We are impact of regulatory changes on our retail loan portfolio, Remuneration Committee confident that management takes an appropriately including the allocation of risk budget to different prudent and conservative approach to write-offs.
segments as our loan book rebalances away from unsecured consumer loans.
There will be a renewed I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report Executive Directors that we consider to be exceptional in focus on emerging risks and consideration of how the Risk Management for the year ended 31 December 2018 on behalf of the its focus in this regard.
Risk Committee can receive appropriate information The Risk Committee assisted the Board in setting BOGG Board.
This Remuneration Report is divided into in a timely manner.
the Groups risk appetite and exposure in line with two sections: The principles of our Policy are: i weighting salary to longour strategic objectives and in making any necessary Our new Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy term deferred share remuneration rather than cash: and The Risk Committee also agreed to hold in 2019 quarterly modifications as strategy evolves and when the risk which will be presented to our shareholders for approval ii paying performance-based remuneration in the form joint meetings with the Audit Committee at which environment changes.
We also monitored risk exposure at the AGM on 17 May 2019: and of discretionary deferred shares only and no cash bonus.
we will consider items, primarily relating to operational and actions to address risk, which included oversight and The Annual Remuneration Report providing details risks, which are within the scope of both Risk Committees.
support of our executive management risk team.
of amounts paid during the reporting year.
Our strategically aligned remuneration structure means To facilitate this change, Jonathan Muir stepped down that Executive Directors are completely focused on from the Risk Committee at the end of the year.
The We work closely with the Audit Committee to ensure This is our first such Remuneration Report and Policy as delivering shareholder value.
By focusing on the Groups Board is confident that the joint meetings will ensure that our risk management framework and systems of an independently listed company.
As we outlined in our sustainable, long-term performance, our policy mitigates that the solid link between risk and audit is maintained internal control operate effectively and in compliance with prospectus, the Policy follows the model operated by reputational and behavioural risks.
The structure aligns without the need for overlapping membership.
the Code and FRC guidance.
We also worked through BGEO Group PLC, the Group from which we demerged, both salary and performance-based remuneration with the processes supporting the assessment of the Groups and is closely aligned with our long-term development shareholder interest and operates within a framework longer-term solvency and liquidity which underlie the strategy and value creation for our shareholders.
that promotes the Groups long-term success.
The Policy for Executive Directors aims to: Given that both historical salary and bonus shares During the year, management reviewed the risk mitigation focus on alignment between Executive Directors can lapse upon leaving, the Executive Director is also tools and control functions and reported to the Risk and our shareholders: motivated to think long term and to remain with the Committee and to the Audit Committee on their incentivise the Executive Directors to promote the Company.
Pension and benefits are only a very small part assessment of the effectiveness of these controls.
We long-term sustainable success of the Company and of an Executive Directors remuneration package.
also worked with the Board and the Audit Committee to its strategy: monitor the implementation of the Groups Compliance support our corporate culture, including teamwork over The Policy is UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 Policy, the development of our Data Protection Policy in individualism, and avoiding inappropriate risk taking: compliant, noting that the deferred share salary is neither line with the GDPR and proposed Georgian legislation, follow the principles and provisions of the new UK a typical remuneration scheme nor a typical salary, and and reviewed managements anti-money laundering Corporate Governance Code 2018: and the discretionary deferred shares are released later than assessments in respect of correspondent banks.
attract and retain high calibre executives.
a typical cash bonus would be.
The Remuneration Committees principal consideration The new Policy continues with the basics of the approved when determining the Remuneration Policy is to promote remuneration policy at our predecessor BGEO Group the long-term sustainable success of the Company and PLC, but with the changes in vesting periods, pension its strategy by focusing on alignment between Executive contribution, shareholding guidelines and malus and Directors and our shareholders over the long term.
The clawback provisions set out in Key Features of the Company has adopted, subject to shareholder approval Policy below.
at the forthcoming AGM, a remuneration structure for 128 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 129 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Remuneration Report continued Key features of the Policy: Other activities of the Directors Remuneration Policy Weighting salary to deferred share remuneration rather Remuneration Committee Subject to shareholder approval, the Policy will take effect from 17 May 2019 at the AGM, and will become formally than cash.
The majority of the salary will be in deferred Since the Demerger, the Remuneration Committee has effective for three years following that date.
shares which vest in tranches over five years from the also considered and awarded the discretionary deferred beginning of the work year.
shares for Kaha Kiknavelidze, the sole Executive Director It is a provision of this Policy that the Group will honour all pre-existing obligations and commitments that were entered until early 2019.
Mr Kiknavelidzes performance against into prior to this Policy taking effect.
The terms of those pre-existing obligations and commitments may differ from Paying performance-based remuneration in the form of financial KPIs set pre-Demerger was strong, with targets the terms of the Policy and may include without limitation obligations and commitments under service agreements discretionary deferred shares only.
No cash bonus and no met or exceeded except where new external factors as detailed in the information below, deferred share remuneration schemes and pension and benefit plans.
This will be subject to annual performance targets influenced some of the results against target.
The Policy becomes effective after the 2019 AGM, the Group will amend the existing terms of the service contract of the and the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee also took into account nonGroups sole Executive Director and CEO, Archil Gachechiladze, to incorporate the terms of the new Policy.
discretionary deferred shares will vest on a phased basis financial matters as explained further below.
Further detail 40% in year two and 60% in year three after award, on the performance targets and the level of performance The Remuneration Committee retains its discretion under the new Policy to make minor amendments to the Policy have a two-year holding period and have total maximum achieved can be found on pages 142 and 143. for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without vesting and holding period of five years.
Other activities of the Remuneration Committee Pension contribution by the Company to be the same 2% have included: The Policy is UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 compliant, noting that the deferred share salary is neither a typical as for Group employees: considering the revised UK Corporate Governance remuneration scheme nor a typical salary, and the discretionary deferred shares are released later than a typical A 2% company pension contribution for Executive Code 2018 and the impact on role and remit of the cash bonus.
Directors is proposed in line with that available for the Remuneration Committee: wider workforce, together with an executive benefits reviewing and recommending updated Terms of Executive directors Remuneration Policy package that is reflective of market practice.
Reference for the Remuneration Committee: The Policy provides for an Executive Directors remuneration package to be comprised of the elements set forth below.
reviewing the Group companies remuneration structures: Shareholding guidelines during and post employment: For the avoidance of doubt, all references to Executive Directors refer to the Executive Directors of Bank of Georgia overseeing the remuneration of, and deciding the Executive Directors to build and maintain a shareholding Group PLC, to cover the present Executive Director Archil Gachechiladze and any future Executive Directors of BOGG discretionary deferred shares for, senior management, equivalent to 200% of cash plus deferred share salary, PLC while this Policy is in force.
The compensation structure of the Executive Management Team who serve on the including the executive team, for 2018: and with a requirement that a departing Executive Director Management Board of the Bank but who are not Executive Directors of BOGG PLC is set by the Remuneration determining the remuneration of the new Executive maintains the required shareholding for two years postCommittee and is modelled on the Policy but is not bound by it.
The Remuneration Committee can set different vesting Director, Archil Gachechiladze.
Indeed, given the pay structure, an Executive or other terms and conditions for some or all of the Executive Management Team as the Remuneration Committee Director who has been with the Company more than thinks appropriate.
Looking forward a couple of years will naturally hold a higher amount The Remuneration Committee has devoted a considerable in unvested shares at any given time.
amount of time to considering the executive remuneration framework, and subject to shareholder approval, it is our Malus and clawback provisions: intention that the new Policy will operate for the next three Malus and clawback provisions have been extended years as the CEO and Executive Management Team continue consistent with UK best practice, with specific triggers to focus on delivering long-term value to you, our shareholders.
These provisions are in addition to the unusual structure of remuneration whereby part We hope that the new Policy will meet with your support of the salary is paid in deferred share salary and no at the upcoming 2019 Annual General Meeting.
Both unvested salary shares and discretionary shares lapse if the service contract Alasdair Breach is terminated under certain circumstances.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 March 2019 What is in this report?
This Remuneration Report is split into two sections: The new Directors Remuneration Policy which will be voted on at the 2019 AGM.
Subject to approval by shareholders, the new Policy will apply from the 2019 AGM.
The Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 129 to 148 which includes the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, describes the implementation of Bank of Georgia Group PLCs Directors Remuneration Policy and discloses the amounts earned relating to the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2019 AGM.
The Remuneration Report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the new UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
130 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 131
