Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays Group depends on suppliers, h Tax risk k Unauthorised or rogue trading Unauthorised trading, such as a large it continues to be accountable for risk Barclays Group is required to comply with arising from the actions of such suppliers.
the domestic and international tax laws unhedged position, which arises through a failure of preventative controls or deliberate and practice of all countries in which it has Failure to monitor and control Barclays business operations.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs actions of the trader, may result in large Groups suppliers could potentially lead to financial losses for Barclays Group, loss of Act has introduced substantial changes to client information, or critical infrastructures the US tax system, including the introduction business, damage to investor confidence and services, not being adequately protected and reputational damage.
of a new tax, the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax.
The dependency These changes have increased Barclays on suppliers and sub-contracting of l Algorithmic trading Groups tax compliance obligations and require In some areas of the investment banking outsourced services introduces concentration a number of system and process changes risk where the failure of specific suppliers business, trading algorithms are used to which introduce additional operational risk.
price and risk manage client and principal could have an impact on our ability to In addition, increasing customer tax reporting continue to provide services that are material transactions.
An algorithmic error could result requirements around the world and the in increased market exposure and subsequent to Barclays Group.
digitisation of the administration of tax has financial losses for Barclays Group and Failure to adequately manage outsourcing risk potential to increase Barclays Groups tax potential loss of business, damage to investor could result in increased losses, inability to compliance obligations further.
In light of the confidence and reputational damage.
perform critical economic functions, customer above, there is a risk that Barclays Group could detriment, potential regulatory censure, legal suffer losses due to additional tax charges, v Model risk Enhanced model risk management liability and reputational damage.
other financial costs or reputational damage as a result of failing to comply with such laws requirements e Processing error Barclays Group relies on models to support and practice, or by failing to manage its tax As a large, complex bank, Barclays Group affairs in an appropriate manner, with much a broad range of business and risk faces the risk of material errors in operational management activities, including informing of this risk attributable to the international processes, including payments and client structure of Barclays Group.
business decisions and strategies, measuring transactions.
and limiting risk, valuing exposures including i Critical accounting estimates Material operational or payment errors could the calculation of impairment, conducting and judgements stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, disadvantage Barclays Groups customers, The preparation of financial statements clients or counterparties and could result in supporting new business acceptance and in accordance with IFRS requires the use risk and reward evaluation, managing client regulatory censure, legal liability, reputational of estimates.
It also requires management damage and financial loss for Barclays Group.
assets, and meeting reporting requirements.
to exercise judgement in applying relevant accounting policies.
The key areas involving Models are, by their nature, imperfect and f New and emergent technology Technological advancements present a higher degree of judgement or complexity, incomplete representations of reality because or areas where assumptions are significant they rely on assumptions and inputs, and so opportunities to develop new and innovative ways of doing business across Barclays Group, to the consolidated and individual financial they may be subject to errors affecting the statements include credit impairment charges accuracy of their outputs.
For instance, the with new solutions being developed both in-house and in association with third-party for amortised cost assets, taxes, fair value quality of the data used in models across of financial instruments, pensions and Barclays Group has a material impact on the companies.
Introducing new forms of technology, however, also has the potential post-retirement benefits, and provisions accuracy and completeness of our risk and including conduct and legal, competition financial metrics.
There is a risk that Models may also be misused.
Model errors Failure to evaluate, actively manage and if the judgement exercised, or the estimates closely monitor risk exposure during all or misuse may result in Barclays Group or assumptions used, subsequently turn out making inappropriate business decisions phases of business development could lead to be incorrect, this could result in significant to customer detriment, loss of business, and being subject to financial loss, regulatory loss to Barclays Group, beyond what was risk, reputational risk and or inadequate regulatory censure, missed business anticipated or provided for.
The further development of standards vi Conduct risk g Ability to hire and retain appropriately and interpretations under IFRS could also There is the risk of detriment to customers, qualified employees significantly impact the financial results, clients, market integrity, effective competition As a regulated financial institution, Barclays condition and prospects of Barclays Group.
or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of Group requires diversified and specialist skilled j Data management and information financial services, including instances of wilful colleagues.
Barclays Groups ability to attract, or negligent misconduct.
This risk could develop and retain a diverse mix of talent is protection key to the delivery of its core business activity Barclays Group holds and processes large manifest itself in a variety of ways: and strategy.
This is impacted by a range of volumes of data, including personally a Product governance and life cycle external and internal factors, such as the UKs identifiable information, intellectual property, Ineffective product governance, including decision to leave the EU and the enhanced and financial data.
Failure to accurately design, approval and review of products, individual accountability applicable to the collect and maintain this data, protect it from inappropriate controls over internal and banking industry.
breaches of confidentiality and interference third-party sales channels and post-sales with its availability exposes Barclays Group Failure to attract or prevent the departure services, such as complaints handling, to the risk of loss or unavailability of data collections and recoveries, could lead to of appropriately qualified and skilled including customer data covered under vi, employees could negatively impact our poor customer outcomes, as well as c Data protection and privacy, below or data regulatory sanctions, financial loss and financial performance, control environment integrity issues.
This could result in regulatory and level of employee engagement.
censure, legal liability and reputational Additionally, this may result in disruption damage, including the risk of substantial fines b Financial crime to service which could in turn lead to Barclays Group may be adversely affected if under the General Data Protection Regulation disenfranchising certain customer groups, GDPR, which strengthens the data it fails to effectively mitigate the risk that third customer detriment and reputational damage.
parties or its employees facilitate, or that its protection rights for customers and increases the accountability of Barclays Group in its products and services are used to facilitate financial crime money laundering, terrorist management of that data.
financing and proliferation financing, breaches home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 135 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks of economic and financial sanctions, bribery competition or Barclays Group see iv a of confidence by investors, counterparties, and corruption, and the facilitation of tax Cyber threat, iv j Data management and clients and or customers: risk of credit rating evasion.
UK and US regulations concerning information protection, and vi Conduct agency downgrades: potential negative financial institutions continue to focus on risk, above.
impact on the availability and or cost of combating financial crime.
Failure to comply funding and liquidity: and or dismissal or viii Legal risk and legal, competition may lead to enforcement action by Barclays resignation of key individuals.
In light of the and regulatory matters Groups regulators together with severe uncertainties involved in legal, competition Legal disputes, regulatory investigations, penalties, affecting Barclays Groups and regulatory matters, there can be no fines and other sanctions relating to conduct reputation and financial results.
assurance that the outcome of a particular of business and breaches of legislation matter or matters will not be material to c Data protection and privacy and or regulations may negatively affect Barclays Groups results of operations or cash Proper handling of personal data is critical Barclays Groups results, reputation and ability flow for a particular period.
to sustaining long-term relationships with to conduct its business.
our customers and clients and to meeting In January 2017, Barclays was sentenced to Barclays Group conducts diverse activities serve three years of probation from the date privacy laws and obligations.
Failure to protect in a highly regulated global market and personal data can lead to potential detriment of the sentencing order in accordance with the therefore is exposed to the risk of fines and terms of its May 2015 plea agreement with the to our customers and clients, reputational other sanctions.
Authorities have continued damage, regulatory sanctions and financial Department of Justice DOJ.
During the term to investigate past practices, pursued alleged of probation, Barclays Group must, among loss, which under the GDPR may be breaches and imposed heavy penalties on substantial see iv j Data management other things, i commit no crime whatsoever financial services firms.
A breach of applicable in violation of the federal laws of the US, and information protection, above.
legislation and or regulations could result ii implement and continue to implement d Regulatory focus on culture in Barclays Group or its staff being subject a compliance programme designed to prevent and accountability to criminal prosecution, regulatory censure, and detect the conduct that gave rise to Regulators around the world continue to fines and other sanctions in the jurisdictions the plea agreement, and iii strengthen its emphasise the importance of culture and in which it operates.
Where clients, customers compliance and internal controls as required personal accountability and the adoption and or other third parties are harmed by Barclays by relevant regulatory or enforcement enforcement of adequate internal reporting Groups conduct, this may also give rise to agencies.
Potential consequences of and whistle-blowing procedures in helping legal proceedings, including class actions.
breaching the plea agreement include the to promote appropriate conduct and drive Other legal disputes may also arise between imposition of additional terms and conditions positive outcomes for customers, colleagues, Barclays Group and third parties relating on Barclays Group, an extension of the clients and markets.
Failure to meet the to matters such as breaches, enforcement agreement, or the criminal prosecution of requirements and expectations of the UK of legal rights or obligations arising under Barclays Group, which could, in turn, entail Senior Managers Regime, Certification Regime contracts, statutes or common law.
Adverse further financial penalties and collateral and Conduct Rules may lead to regulatory findings in any such matters may result in consequences and have a material adverse sanctions, both for the individuals and Barclays Group being liable to third parties, effect on Barclays Groups business, operating Barclays Group.
or may result in Barclays Groups rights not results or financial position.
vii Reputation risk There is also a risk that the outcome of any Barclays Groups association with sensitive Details of legal, competition and regulatory legal, competition or regulatory matters in sectors and its impact on reputation matters to which Barclays Group is currently which Barclays Group is involved may give exposed are set out in Note 27.
In addition A risk arising in one business area can have rise to changes in law or regulation as part of an adverse effect upon Barclays Groups to matters specifically described in Note 27, a wider response by relevant law makers and Barclays Group is engaged in various other overall reputation: any one transaction, regulators.
A decision in any matter, either investment or event that, in the perception legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary against Barclays Group or another financial course of business.
Barclays Group is also of key stakeholders reduces their trust in institution facing similar claims, could lead Barclays Groups integrity and competence.
subject to requests for information, to further claims against Barclays Group.
investigations and other reviews by regulators, Barclays Groups association with sensitive governmental and other public bodies in topics and sectors is an area of concern connection with business activities in which for stakeholders, including: Barclays Group is, or has been, engaged.
disclosure of climate risks and The outcome of legal, competition and opportunities, including the activities regulatory matters, both those to which of certain sections of the client base, Barclays Group is currently exposed and which has become the subject of any others which may arise in the future, increased scrutiny from regulators, is difficult to predict.
In connection with NGOs and other stakeholders such matters Barclays Group may incur the risks of association with human rights significant expense, regardless of the ultimate violations through the perceived indirect outcome, and any such matters could expose involvement in human rights abuses Barclays Group to any of the following committed by clients and customers outcomes: substantial monetary damages, the manufacture and export of military settlements and or fines: remediation of and riot control goods and services by affected customers and clients: other penalties clients and customers.
and injunctive relief: additional litigation: criminal prosecution: the loss of any existing These associations have the potential to give agreed protection from prosecution: rise to reputation risk for Barclays Group regulatory restrictions on Barclays Groups and may result in loss of business, regulatory business operations including the withdrawal censure and missed business opportunity.
of authorisations: increased regulatory In addition to the above, Reputation risk has compliance requirements: suspension the potential to arise from operational issues of operations: public reprimands: loss of or conduct matters which cause detriment to significant assets or business: a negative customers, clients, market integrity, effective effect on Barclays Groups reputation: loss 136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Principal Risk management Credit risk management For wholesale portfolios, credit risk approval Credit risk audited is undertaken by experienced credit risk professionals operating within a clearly The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including defined delegated authority framework, with sovereigns, to fully honour their obligations to the firm, including the whole and timely only the most senior credit officers assigned payment of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.
the higher levels of delegated authority.
The largest credit exposures, which are outside the Risk Sanctioning Unit or Risk Distribution Committee authority, require the support of a legal entity Senior Credit Officer.
For exposures in excess of the legal entity Senior Credit Officers authority, approval Overview Organisation and structure by Group Senior Credit Officer Board Risk Committee is also required.
The Barclays The credit risk that Barclays Group faces arises Wholesale and retail portfolios are managed Group Credit Risk Committee, attended by from wholesale and retail loans and advances separately to reflect the differing nature of legal entity Senior Credit Officers, provides together with the counterparty credit risk the assets: wholesale balances tend to be a formal mechanism for the Barclays Group arising from derivative contracts with clients: larger and are managed on an individual basis, Senior Credit Officer to exercise the highest trading activities, including: debt securities, while retail balances are greater in number level of credit authority over the most material settlement balances with market but lesser in value and are, therefore, Barclays Group single name exposures.
counterparties, FVOCI assets and reverse managed in aggregated segments.
In the wholesale portfolios, credit risk The credit risk management teams in each managers are organised in sanctioning teams Credit risk management objectives are to: legal entity are accountable to the relevant by geography, industry and or product.
Legal Entity CRO, who reports to the Barclays maintain a framework of controls to oversee Group CRO.
The role of the Central Risk function is credit risk to provide Barclays Group-wide direction, identify, assess and measure credit risk Roles and responsibilities oversight and challenge of credit risk taking.
clearly and accurately across Barclays Group Central Risk sets the Credit Risk Control The responsibilities of the credit risk and within each separate business, from Framework, which provides the structure the level of individual facilities up to the management teams in the businesses, the within which credit risk is managed, sanctioning team and other shared services total portfolio together with supporting credit risk include: sanctioning new credit agreements control and plan credit risk taking in line policies and standards.
principally wholesale : setting strategies for with external stakeholder expectations approval of transactions principally retail : and avoiding undesirable concentrations setting risk appetite: monitoring risk against Governance and oversight monitor credit risk and adherence to limits and other parameters: maintaining agreed controls.
of expected credit losses robust processes, data gathering, quality, storage and reporting methods for effective Barclays Groups organisational structure credit risk management: performing effective and internal governance processes oversee turnaround and workout scenarios for the estimation of ECL across several areas, wholesale portfolios via dedicated restructuring including: i setting requirements in policy, and recoveries teams: maintaining robust including key assumptions and the collections and recovery processes units for application of key judgements: ii the design retail portfolios: and development of credit and execution of models: and iii review risk measurement models.
Organisation and structure Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee Reviews and recommends Barclays Groups risk appetite for wholesale and retail credit risk to Barclays PLC Board Reviews Barclays Groups risk profile for wholesale and retail credit risk on behalf of the Barclays PLC Board Commissions, receives and considers reports on wholesale and retail credit risk issues Barclays Group Risk Committee Reviews appetite for wholesale and retail credit risk and makes recommendations on the setting of limits to the Barclays PLC Board Monitors the risk profile for wholesale and retail credit risk Reviews and monitors the control environment for wholesale and retail credit risk Business Risk Committees Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Management Committees Oversee activities and manage information relating to business portfolios, Monitor the wholesale and retail credit risk profile against plan and agree and identify actions needed to mitigate current and arising credit risks required actions Review and approve business mandate and scale limits and, where Review key wholesale and retail credit risk issues relevant, provide recommendations for limits managed by wholesale and Review credit risk policies and framework retail risk committees Monitor risk appetite consumption key credit portfolio mandate and Review relevant decisions made by, and material issues and topics raised scale limits by, other forums and committees home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 137 Risk review Principal Risk management Credit risk management i Imp airment policy requirements are set in golden source systems, documented legal title to the leased asset and has the and reviewed regularly, at a minimum data transformations and documented right to repossess the asset on the default annually, to maintain adherence to lineage of data transfers between systems.
of the borrower accounting standards.
Key judgements derivatives: Barclays Group also often iii The Bar clays Group Impairment inherent in policy, including the estimated seeks to enter into a margin agreement Committee, formed of members from life of revolving credit facilities and the e. g. Credit Support Annex with both Finance and Risk, is responsible for quantitative criteria for assessing the counterparties with which Barclays Group overseeing impairment policy and practice significant increase in credit risk SICR, has master netting agreements in place.
across Barclays Group and will approve are separately supported by analytical These annexes to master agreements impairment results.
In particular, the quantitative provide a mechanism for further reducing key messages are communicated to the thresholds used for assessing SICR are credit risk, whereby collateral margin Barclays PLC Board Audit Committee, subject to a number of internal validation is posted on a regular basis typically daily which has an oversight role and provides criteria, particularly in retail portfolios to collateralise the mark to market exposure challenge of key assumptions, including where thresholds decrease as the of a derivative portfolio measured on a the basis of the scenarios adopted.
origination PD of each facility increases.
Barclays Group may additionally Key policy requirements are also typically negotiate the receipt of an independent aligned to Barclays Groups credit risk Credit risk mitigation amount further mitigating risk by management strategy and practices, collateralising potential mark to market Barclays Group employs a range of techniques for example, wholesale customers that exposure moves and strategies to actively mitigate credit risks.
are risk managed on an individual basis These can broadly be divided into three types: reverse repurchase agreements: collateral are assessed for ECL on an individual typically comprises highly liquid securities netting and set-off basis upon entering Stage 3: furthermore, which have been legally transferred to collateral key internal risk management indicators Barclays Group subject to an agreement risk transfer.
of high risk are used to set SICR policy, to return them for a fixed price for example, retail customers identified Netting and set-off financial guarantees and similar as High Risk Management Accounts are In most jurisdictions and within legal entities off-balance sheet commitments: automatically deemed to have met the in which Barclays Group operates, credit risk cash collateral may be held against SICR criteria.
exposures can be reduced by applying netting these arrangements.
In exposure terms, this credit ii EC L is estimated in line with internal risk mitigation technique has the largest Risk transfer policy requirements using models which overall impact on net exposure to derivative A range of instruments including guarantees, are validated by a qualified independent transactions, compared with other risk credit insurance, credit derivatives and party to the model development area, mitigation techniques.
securitisation can be used to transfer credit the Independent Validation Unit IVU, risk from one counterparty to another.
before first use and at a minimum annually For derivative transactions, Barclays Groups These mitigate credit risk in two main ways: thereafter.
Each model is designated normal practice is, on a legal entity basis, an owner who is responsible for: if the risk is transferred to a counterparty to enter into standard master agreements which is more creditworthy than the with counterparties e. g. ISDAs.
These master Monitoring the performance of the original counterparty, then overall credit model, which includes comparing agreements typically allow for netting of credit risk is reduced risk exposure to a counterparty resulting from predicted ECL versus flow into Stage 3 and coverage ratios: and derivative transactions against the obligations where recourse to the first counterparty to the counterparty in the event of default, remains, both counterparties must default Proposing post-model adjustments and so produce a lower net credit exposure.
This is less likely PMA to address model weaknesses These agreements may also reduce settlement than the default of either counterparty or to account for situations where exposure e. g. for foreign exchange individually so credit risk is reduced.
known or expected risk factors and transactions by allowing payments on the information have not been considered Detailed policies are in place to appropriately same day in the same currency to be set-off in the modelling process.
Each PMA recognise and record credit risk mitigation.
above an absolute and relative threshold For more information, refer to pages 160 is approved by the IVU for a set time Collateral to 162 in the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report period usually a maximum of six Barclays Group has the ability to call on 2018 unaudited.
months together with a plan for collateral in the event of default of the remediation.
The most material PMAs counterparty, comprising: are also approved by the Barclays home loans: a fixed charge over residential Groups Chief Risk Officer.
property in the form of houses, flats and Models must also assess ECL across other dwellings.
The value of collateral is a range of future economic conditions.
impacted by property market conditions These economic scenarios are generated which drive demand and therefore value of via an independent model and ultimately the property.
Other regulatory interventions set by the Senior Scenario Review on ability to repossess, longer period to Committee.
Economic scenarios are repossession and granting of forbearance regenerated at a minimum annually, to may also affect the collateral value align with Barclays Groups medium-term wholesale lending: a fixed charge over planning exercise, but also if the external commercial property and other physical consensus of the UK or US economy assets, in various forms materially worsen.
The scenario probability other retail lending: includes charges over weights are also updated when scenarios motor vehicle and other physical assets: are regenerated and reviewed by the Senior second lien charges over residential Scenario Committee.
Each model used in property, which are subordinate to first the estimation of ECL, including key inputs, charges held either by Barclays Group or are governed by a series of internal another party: and finance lease receivables, controls, which include the validation for which typically Barclays Group retains of completeness and accuracy of data 138 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Principal Risk management Market risk management Management value at risk Market risk audited estimates the potential loss arising The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the firms assets and from unfavourable market movements, liabilities from fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, over one day for a given confidence level foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and differs from the regulatory VaR used for asset correlations.
capital purposes in scope, confidence level and horizon back testing is performed to evaluate that the model is fit for purpose.
VaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising To meet the above objectives, a governance Overview from unfavourable market movements if the structure is in place to manage these risks current positions were to be held unchanged Market risk arises primarily as a result of client consistent with the ERMF.
For internal market risk facilitation in wholesale markets, involving management purposes, a historical simulation The Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee market making activities, risk management methodology with a two-year equally recommends market risk appetite to the solutions and execution of syndications.
weighted historical period, at the 95% Barclays PLC Board for their approval.
Upon execution of a trade with a client, confidence level is used for all trading books The Market Risk Principal Risk Lead PR Lead Barclays Group will look to hedge against and some banking books.
is responsible for the Market Risk Control the risk of the trade moving in an adverse Framework and, under delegated authority direction.
Mismatches between client The management VaR model in some from the Barclays Group CRO, agrees with the transactions and hedges result in market instances may not appropriately measure business CROs a limit framework within the risk due to changes in asset prices, volatility some market risk exposures, especially for context of the approved market risk appetite.
market moves that are not directly observable via prices.
Market risk managers are required The Market Risk Committee approves and to identify risks which are not adequately makes recommendations concerning the Organisation and structure captured in VaR risks not in VaR or RNIVs.
Barclays Group-wide market risk profile.
Market risk in the businesses resides primarily This includes overseeing the operation of When reviewing VaR estimates, the following in Barclays International and Barclays Group the Market Risk Framework and associated considerations are taken into account: Treasury.
These businesses have the mandate standards and policies: reviewing market or the historical simulation uses the most to assume market risk.
Market risk oversight regulatory issues and limits and utilisation.
recent two years of past data to generate and challenge is provided by business The committee is chaired by the PR Lead possible future market moves, but the past committees and Barclays Group committees, and attendees include the business heads may not be a good indicator of the future including the Market Risk Committee.
of market risk and business aligned market the one-day time horizon may not fully risk managers.
capture the market risk of positions that Roles and responsibilities The head of each business is accountable cannot be closed out or hedged within for all market risks associated with its The objectives of market risk management one day activities, while the head of the market risk are to: VaR is based on positions as at close of team covering each business is responsible identify, understand and control market business and consequently, it is not an for implementing the risk control framework risk by robust measurement, limit setting, appropriate measure for intra-day risk for market risk.
reporting and oversight arising from a position bought and sold For more information on market risk on the same day facilitate business growth within management, refer to the Barclays PLC a controlled and transparent risk VaR does not indicate the potential loss Pillar 3 Report 2018 unaudited.
management framework beyond the VaR confidence level.
control market risk in the businesses Limits are applied at the total level as well according to the allocated appetite.
as by risk factor type, which are then cascaded down to particular trading desks and businesses by the market risk management function.
Organisation and structure Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee Reviews and recommends Barclays Groups risk appetite for market risk to the Barclays PLC Board Reviews material events impacting market risk Barclays Group Risk Committee Monitors risk profile with respect to financial risk appetite Debates and agrees actions on the financial risk profile and risk strategy across Barclays Group Considers issues escalated by risk type heads and business risk directors Barclays Group Market Risk Committee Reviews market risk appetite proposals from the business Oversees the management of Barclays Groups market risk profile Reviews arising market or regulatory issues Reviews state of the implementation of the risk frameworks in the businesses home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 139 Risk review Principal Risk management Treasury and capital risk management Roles and responsibilities Treasury and capital risk The Treasury and Capital Risk function Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations is responsible for the management and or that it does not have the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and governance of the liquidity risk mandate liquidity to support its assets.
defined by the Board and the production of ILAAPs.
Treasury has the primary Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition of capital to responsibility for managing liquidity risk support its normal business activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under within the set risk appetite.
normal operating environments or stressed conditions both actual and as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes.
This includes the risk from the firms Barclays Groups comprehensive control pension plans.
framework for managing Barclays Groups liquidity risk is designed to deliver the Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income appropriate term and structure of funding, volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its non-traded consistent with the liquidity risk appetite assets and liabilities.
The control framework incorporates a range Overview Liquidity risk management of ongoing business management tools to monitor, limit and stress test Barclays Groups Barclays Group Treasury manages treasury audited balance sheet and contingent liabilities and and capital risk exposure on a day-to-day the Recovery Plan.
Limit setting and transfer basis with the Treasury Committee acting as Overview pricing are tools that are designed to control the principal management body.
To enforce The efficient management of liquidity is the level of liquidity risk taken and drive the effective oversight and segregation of duties essential to Barclays Group in retaining the appropriate mix of funds.
Together, these and in line with the ERMF, the Treasury and confidence of the financial markets and tools reduce the likelihood that a liquidity Capital Risk function is responsible for maintaining the sustainability of the business.
stress event could lead to an inability to meet oversight of key capital, liquidity, interest rate There is a control framework in place for Barclays Groups obligations as they fall due.
risk in the banking book IRRBB and pension managing liquidity risk and this is designed The control framework is subject to internal risk management activities.
The following to maintain liquidity resources that are conformance testing and internal audit review.
describes the structure and governance sufficient in amount and quality and funding associated with the risk types within the The Board approves the Barclays Group tenor profile that is adequate to meet the Treasury and Capital Risk function.
funding plan, internal stress tests and results liquidity risk appetite as expressed by the of regulatory stress tests, and the Barclays Barclays PLC Board based on internal and Group recovery plan.
The Treasury Committee regulatory liquidity metrics.
is responsible for monitoring and managing This is achieved via a combination of policy liquidity risk in line with Barclays Groups formation, review and governance, analysis, funding management objectives, funding plan stress testing, limit setting and monitoring.
The Treasury and Capital Together, these meet internal and Risk Committee monitors and reviews the regulatory requirements.
liquidity risk profile and control environment, providing Second Line oversight of the management of liquidity risk.
The BRC reviews the risk profile, and annually reviews risk appetite and the impact of stress scenarios on the Barclays Group funding plan forecast in order to agree Barclays Groups projected funding abilities.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays Group maintains a range of capital plan and risk frameworks.
The Barclays management actions for use in a liquidity Group Treasury and Capital Risk Committee stress, these are documented in the Barclays monitors and reviews the capital risk profile Group Recovery Plan.
Since the precise nature and control environment, providing Second of any stress event cannot be known in Line oversight of the management of capital advance, the actions are designed to be risk.
The Barclays PLC BRC reviews the risk flexible to the nature and severity of the stress profile, and annually reviews risk appetite and event and provide a menu of options that the impact of stress scenarios on the Barclays can be drawn upon as required.
The Barclays Group capital plan forecast in order to agree Group Recovery Plan also contains more Barclays Groups projected capital adequacy.
severe recovery options to generate additional Local management assures compliance liquidity in order to facilitate recovery in a with an entitys minimum regulatory capital severe stress.
Any stress event would be requirements by reporting to local Asset and regularly monitored and reviewed using key Liability Committees with oversight by Barclays management information by Treasury, Risk Group Treasury Committee, as required.
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing and monitoring capital and Capital risk management reports to the Barclays Group Finance Director.
audited The Barclays Group Treasury and Capital Risk function provides oversight of capital risk and Overview is an independent risk function that reports to the Barclays Group CRO.
Production of the Capital risk is managed through ongoing Barclays PLC ICAAP is the joint responsibility monitoring and management of the capital of Barclays Group Risk and Barclays position, regular stress testing and a robust Group Finance.
In 2018, Barclays complied with all regulatory minimum capital requirements.
Roles and responsibilities Pension risk The management of capital risk is integral to Barclays Group maintains a number of defined Barclays Groups approach to financial stability benefit pension schemes for past and current and sustainability management, and is employees.
The ability of the pension fund embedded in the way businesses and legal to meet pension payments is maintained entities operate.
Capital risk management is underpinned by Pension risk arises because the estimated a control framework and policy.
The capital market value of the pension fund assets might management strategy, outlined in Barclays decline: investment returns might reduce: Group and legal entity capital plans, is or the estimated value of the pension liabilities developed in alignment with the control might increase.
Barclays Group monitors the framework and policy for capital risk, and is pension risks arising from its defined benefit implemented consistently in order to deliver pension schemes and works with Trustees on Barclays Groups objectives.
In these circumstances The Board approves the Barclays Group capital Barclays Group could be required or might plan, internal stress tests and results of choose to make extra contributions to the regulatory stress tests, and the Barclays Group pension fund.
Barclays Groups main defined recovery plan.
The Barclays Group Treasury benefit scheme was closed to new entrants Committee is responsible for monitoring and in 2012. managing capital risk in line with Barclays Groups capital management objectives, Organisation and structure Primary objectives Core practices Maintain adequate capital for Barclays Group and its legal entities to Meet minimum regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions.
withstand the impact of the risks that may arise under the normal and Maintain capital buffers over regulatory minimums.
Perform Barclays Group-wide internal and regulatory stress tests.
Develop contingency plans for severe and extreme stresses, which include stress management actions and recovery actions.
Maintain capital ratios aligned with rating agency expectations.
Maintain adequate capital to cover Barclays Groups current and forecast business needs and associated risks in order to provide a viable and sustainable business offering.
Maintain a capital plan on a short-term and medium-term basis aligned with Barclays Groups strategic objectives, balancing capital generation of the business with business growth and shareholder distributions.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 141 Risk review Principal Risk management Treasury and capital risk management recruitment risk: the potential loss in value Interest rate risk in the Roles and responsibilities if the actual completion or drawdown banking book management The non-traded market risk team provides behaviour from customers deviates from the risk management oversight and monitoring expected behaviour, which may result in a Overview of all traded and non-traded market risk in hedge or funding adjustment at a cost to Treasury and customer banking books, Barclays Group.
This risk principally relates Banking book operations generate non-traded which specifically includes: to the completion timing around Barclays market risk, primarily through the mismatch Groups fixed rate mortgage pipeline process interest rate risk assessment in the between the duration of assets and liabilities customer banking books and where interest rates on products reset margin compression risk: the effect of at different dates.
As per Barclays Groups internal or market forces on the Barclays review and challenge the behavioural policy to remain within the defined risk Groups net margin where, for example, assumptions used in hedging and appetite, interest rate and FX risks residing in a low rate environment a fall in interest transfer pricing in the banking books of the businesses rates may further decrease interest income risk management of the liquidity buffer are transferred to Treasury where they are earned on the assets whereas funding costs investments and funding activities centrally managed.
Currently these risks may not be reduced given the already oversight of balance sheet hedging are transferred to Treasury via funding minimum level of interest rates review of residual risk in the hedge arrangements and interest rate or FX swaps.
lag risk: arises from the delay in repricing accounting solution and hedging of However, the businesses remain susceptible customer rates for certain variable net investments to non-traded market risk from seven managed rate products, following an key sources: proposal and monitoring of risk limits underlying change to market interest rates.
to manage traded and non-traded market repricing residual risk: the impact from This is typically driven by either regulatory risk within the agreed risk appetite.
the mismatch between the run-off of constraints around customer notification product balances and the associated on pricing changes, processing time for The Barclays Group Treasury Committee interest rate hedges or from unhedged Barclays Groups notification systems or is responsible for monitoring and managing liquidity buffer investments contractual agreements within a products IRRBB risk in line with Barclays Groups terms and conditions structural risk: the change to the net management objectives and risk frameworks.
interest income on rolling structural hedge asset swap spread risk: the spread between The Barclays Group Risk Committee monitors replenishment due to adverse movements LIBORand sovereign bond yields that arises and reviews the IRRBB risk profile and control in interest rates, assuming that the balance from the management of the liquidity buffer environment, providing Second Line oversight sheet remains constant investments and its associated hedges.
of the management of IRRBB risk.
The Barclays Group Board Risk Committee reviews prepayment risk: the potential loss in value Furthermore, liquidity pool investments are the interest rate risk profile, including annual if actual prepayment or early withdrawal generally subject to fair value through other review of the risk appetite and the impact of behaviour from customers deviates from comprehensive income FVOCI accounting stress scenarios on the interest rate risk of the the expected or contractually agreed rules, whereby changes in the fair value Barclays Group.
behaviour, which may result in a hedge or of these assets impact capital via other funding adjustment at a cost to Barclays comprehensive income OCI.
Exposures are typically considered where appropriate net of any applicable offsetting early repayment charges.
This risk principally relates to early repayment of fixed rate loans or withdrawal from fixed rate savings products 142 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Principal Risk management Operational risk management fraud risk: the risk of financial loss when Operational risk an internal or external party acts dishonestly with the intent to obtain an undue benefit, The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed processes, systems, human factors cause a loss to, or to expose either Barclays or due to external events for example, fraud where the root cause is not due to credit Group or its customers and clients to a or market risks.
risk of loss payments process risk: the risk of payments being processed inaccurately, with delays or without appropriate authentication and authorisation.
It includes payments processes from initiation through to external settlement, for operational risk regulatory capital Overview including any repairs or amendments purposes with effect from 1 April 2018.
The management of operational risk has three Barclays Group has conservatively elected people risk: the set of risks associated key objectives: to retain its previous operational risk RWA with employing and managing people, deliver an operational risk capability owned amount unchanged for 2018. including compliance with regulations, appropriate resourcing for requirements, and used by business leaders which is Barclays Group operates within a strong system pragmatic, relevant, and enables business recruitment and development risks of internal controls that enables business to excluding health and safety related risk leaders to make sound risk decisions over be transacted and risk taken without exposing the long term premises risk: the risk of business Barclays Group to unacceptable potential provide the frameworks and policies to detriment or harm to people due to losses or reputational damages.
Barclays premises and infrastructure issues enable management to meet their risk Group has an overarching Enterprise Risk management responsibilities while the Management Framework ERMF that sets physical security risk: the risk of business second line of defence provides robust, out the approach to internal governance.
detriment, financial loss or harm to people independent, and effective oversight as a result of any physical security incident and challenge impacting Barclays Group or a Barclays Organisation and structure Groups employee relating to harm to deliver a consistent and aggregated Operational risk comprises a number of measurement of operational risk that people, unauthorised access, intentional specific risk categories defined as follow: damage to premises or theft or intentional will provide clear and relevant insights, so that the right management actions damage to moveable assets data management and information risk: can be taken to keep the operational risk the risk that Barclays Group information supplier risk: the risk that is introduced profile consistent with Barclays Groups is not captured, retained, used or protected to Barclays Group or a Barclays Groups strategy, the stated risk tolerance and in accordance with its value and legal and entity as a consequence of obtaining stakeholder needs.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 143 Risk review Principal Risk management Operational risk management tax risk: the risk of unexpected tax cost in Roles and responsibilities relation to any tax for which Barclays Group The prime responsibility for the management is liable, or of reputational damage on tax of operational risk and the compliance with matters with key stakeholders such as tax control requirements rests with the legal authorities, regulators, shareholders or the entities, business and functional units where public.
Tax cost includes tax, interest or the risk arises.
The operational risk profile and penalties levied by a taxing authority control environment is reviewed by business technology risk: the risk of dependency management through specific meetings which on technological solutions and failure to cover these items.
Legal entities, businesses develop, deploy and maintain technology and functions are required to report their solutions that are stable, reliable and operational risks on both a regular and an deliver business need event-driven basis.
The reports include a transaction operations risk: the risk of profile of the material risks that may threaten customer client or Barclays Group detriment the achievement of their objectives and the due to unintentional error and or failure effectiveness of key controls, operational risk in the end-to-end process of initiation, events and a review of scenarios.
processing and fulfilment of an interaction The Barclays Group Head of Operational between a customer client and Barclays Risk is responsible for establishing, owning Group with an underlying financial and maintaining an appropriate Barclays instrument e. g. mortgage, derivative Group-wide Operational Risk Management product, trade product etc.
Framework and for overseeing the portfolio In addition to the above, operational risk of operational risk across Barclays Group.
encompasses risks associated with prudential Operational Risk Management ORM acts regulation.
This includes the risk of failing to: in a Second Line of Defence capacity, and is adhere to prudential regulatory requirements, responsible for defining and overseeing the including capital adequacy requirements: implementation of the framework and provide regulatory submissions: or monitor monitoring Barclays Groups operational risk and manage adherence to new prudential profile.
ORM alerts management when risk regulatory requirements.
levels exceed acceptable tolerance in order These risks may result in financial and or to drive timely decision making and actions non-financial impacts including legal by the First Line of Defence.
Operational risk regulatory breaches or reputational damage.
issues escalated from these meetings are considered through the Second Line of Barclays Group also recognises that there Defence review meetings.
Depending on their are certain threats risk drivers that are more nature, the outputs of these meetings are thematic and have the potential to impact presented to the operational risk profile Forum, Barclays Groups strategic objectives.
These the Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee or are Enterprise Risk Themes which require an the Barclays PLC Board Audit Committee.
overarching and integrated risk management approach.
Including: Specific reports are prepared by Operational cyber: the potential loss or detriment Risk on a regular basis for the Barclays Group to Barclays caused by individuals or Risk Committee, and the Barclays PLC Board groups threat actors with the capabilities Risk Committee.
and intention to cause harm or to profit For further information on Barclays Groups from attacks committed via network Operational Risk Framework, refer to the information systems against us, Operational Risk Framework section on pages our suppliers, or customers clients 182 to 185 in the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report data: aligned to the data strategy of 2018 unaudited.
Barclays Group and encompassing data risks to Barclays Group from multiple risk categories, including data management, data architecture, data security & protection, data resilience, data retention and data privacy execution: the risk of failing to deliver and implement the agreed initiatives, priorities and business outcomes required to deliver Barclays Groups strategy within agreed timelines resilience: the risk of the organisations ability to survive and prosper in its commercial endeavours in the presence of adverse events, shocks and chronic or incremental changes.
144 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Principal Risk management Model risk management Models Database GMD, the Barclays Model risk Group-wide model inventory.
The heads of the relevant model ownership areas The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions annually attest to the completeness and based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
accuracy of the model inventory.
MGC undertakes regular conformance reviews on the model inventory enforcing that every model has a model owner who is accountable for the model.
The model owner must sign off models prior to submission to IVU for validation.
The model owner works with the relevant Barclays Group has a dedicated Model Risk Overview technical teams model developers, Management MRM function that consists implementation, monitoring, data services, Barclays Group uses models to support a of two main units: the Independent Validation broad range of activities, including informing regulatory to maintain that the model Unit IVU, responsible for model validation presented to IVU is and remains fit business decisions and strategies, measuring and approval, and Model Governance and limiting risk, valuing exposures, for purpose and Controls MGC, covering model risk conducting stress testing, assessing capital governance, controls and reporting, including overseeing that every model is subject adequacy, managing client assets, and ownership of model risk policy and the to validation and approval by IVU, prior meeting reporting requirements.
to being implemented and on a continual basis.
While all models are reviewed and Since models are imperfect and incomplete The model risk management framework re-approved for continued use each year, representations of reality, they may be subject consists of the model risk policy and the validation frequency and the level of to errors affecting the accuracy of their output.
The policy prescribes group-wide, review and challenge applied by IVU is Model errors can result in inappropriate end-to-end requirements for the identification, tailored to the materiality and complexity business decisions being made, financial loss, measurement and management of model risk, of each model.
Validation includes a review regulatory risk, reputational risk and or covering model documentation, development, of the model assumptions, conceptual inadequate capital reporting.
Models may also implementation, monitoring, annual review, soundness, data, design, performance be misused, for instance applied to products independent validation and approval, change testing, compliance with external that they were not intended for, or not and reporting processes.
The policy is requirements if applicable, as well as adjusted, where fundamental changes to their supported by global standards covering any limitations, proposed remediation environment would justify re-evaluating their model inventory, documentation, validation, and overlays with supporting rationale.
Errors and misuse are the complexity and materiality, testing and Material model changes are subject to primary sources of model risk.
monitoring, overlays, risk appetite, as well prioritised validation and approval as vendor models and stress testing Robust model risk management is crucial defining model risk appetite in terms of challenger models.
to assessing and managing model risk within risk tolerance, and qualitative metrics which a defined risk appetite.
Strong model risk Barclays Group is continuously enhancing are used to track and report model risk culture, appropriate technology environment, model risk management.
The function reports maintaining specific standards that cover and adequate focus on understanding to the Barclays Group CRO and operates a model risk management activities relating and resolving model limitations are global framework.
Implementation of best to stress testing challenger models, model crucial components.
practice standards is a central objective of overlays, vendor models, and model Barclays Group.
Model risk reporting flows complexity and materiality.
to senior management as depicted below.
Organisation and structure Barclays Group allocates substantial resources Roles and responsibilities to identify and record models and their usage, document and monitor the performance The key model risk management of models, validate models and adequately activities include: address model limitations.
Barclays Group correctly identifying models across all manages model risk as an enterprise level relevant areas of Barclays Group, and risk similar to other principal risks.
recording models in the Barclays Group Organisation and structure Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee Reviews and recommends Barclays Groups risk appetite for model risk to the Barclays PLC Board Reviews the effectiveness of the processes and policies by which Barclays Group identifies and manages model risk Assesses performance relative to model risk appetite Barclays Group Risk Committee Reviews risk appetite across model risk Monitors the Barclays Group risk profile for model risk, including emerging risks, against expected trends, and the utilisation of risk appetite Business Risk Committees Review critical updates on model risk e. g. updates on Barclays Group-wide remediation plans Review targeted updates on progress towards meeting regulatory deliverables Review identified policy breaches home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 145 Risk review Principal Risk management Conduct risk management The Barclays Group Chief Compliance Officer Conduct risk is responsible for owning and maintaining an appropriate Barclays Group-wide CRMF.
The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, effective competition or This includes defining and owning the relevant Barclays from the inappropriate supply of financial services, including instances of wilful conduct risk policies and oversight of the or negligent misconduct.
implementation of controls to manage and escalate the risk.
Businesses are required to report their conduct risks on both a quarterly and an event-driven basis to their respective trading entity risk committees.
The quarterly reports detail conduct risks inherent within the Overview Organisation and structure business strategy and include forward looking Barclays Group defines, manages and The governance of conduct risk within horizon scanning analysis as well as backward mitigates conduct risk with the goal of Barclays Group is fulfilled through looking evidence-based indicators from both providing positive customer and client management committees and forums internal and external sources.
outcomes, protecting market integrity and operated by the First and Second Lines of The Barclays Bank Group and the Barclays promoting effective competition.
This includes Defence with clear escalation and reporting Bank UK Group Trading Entity Risk taking reasonable steps to assure that lines to the Board.
Committees are the primary Second Line Barclays Groups culture and strategy are The Barclays Group Risk Committee is the governance forums for oversight of conduct appropriately aligned to these goals: its most senior executive body responsible for risk profile and implementation of the CRMF.
products and services are reasonably designed reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness The responsibilities of the Business Unit Risk and delivered to meet the needs of customers of Barclays Groups management of Committees include approval of the conduct and clients: promoting the fair and orderly conduct risk.
risk tolerance and the business defined key operation of the markets in which Barclays indicators.
Additional responsibilities include Group does business: and that Barclays Group the identification and discussion of any does not commit or facilitate money Roles and responsibilities emerging conduct risks exposures which laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and The Conduct Risk Management Framework have been identified.
corruption or breaches of economic sanctions.
CRMF outlines how Barclays Group manages Product Life cycle, Culture and Strategy and and measures its conduct risk profile.
Financial Crime are the risk categories within Senior managers have accountability for the Barclays Group definition of conduct risk.
managing conduct risk in their areas of responsibility.
This is expressed in their Statements of Responsibilities.
The primary responsibility for managing conduct risk and compliance with control requirements sits with the business where the risk arises.
The First Line Business Control Committees provide oversight of controls relating to conduct risk.
Organisation and structure Barclays PLC Board Reputation Committee Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee Reviews the effectiveness of the processes by which Barclays Group identifies and manages conduct risk, including annually reviewing the Review the effectiveness of the processes by which the trading entities effectiveness of the Barclays Group Conduct Risk Management Framework: identify and manage conduct risk, including annually reviewing the effectiveness of the Barclays Group Conduct Risk Management Framework Seeks to ensure fair customer outcomes by carrying out periodic reviews as it applies to the trading entities: of the Barclays Groups implementation of policies on customers, clients and counterparties, and by monitoring management reports on issues Seek to obtain fair customer outcomes by carrying out periodic reviews such as compliant levels, customer satisfaction indicators, net promoter of the respective trading entities implementation of policies on customers, scores and market share measures: and clients and counterparties, and by monitoring management reports on issues such as compliant levels, customer satisfaction indicators, Reviews performance against conduct risk metrics.
net promoter scores and market share measures: and Review performance against conduct risk metrics.
Barclays Group Controls Committee Barclays Group Risk Committee Barclays International and Barclays UK Risk Committees Provides oversight and challenge of the Reviews and monitors the effectiveness effectiveness of the Barclays Group control of conduct risk management.
Review and discuss the conduct risk profile environment in relation to conduct risk and of Barclays Bank Group and Barclays Bank provides governance, oversight and supervision UK Group, and the effectiveness of their of all elements of the Barclays Group Conduct risk management, control and escalation.
146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
