Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management Barclays Groups risk management strategy the risk appetite of Barclays Group, and to Introduction Risk appetite for the monitor the performance of the First Line The activities of Barclays Group entail risk principal risks against these limits and constraints.
Note that taking, every day, throughout its business.
the First Line may also set limits for a number Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk This section introduces these risks, and of their activities related to operational risk.
which Barclays Group is prepared to accept outlines arrangements for identifying These will remain subject to supervision by in the conduct of its activities.
Barclays Groups the Second Line.
approach to fostering a strong risk culture Risk appetite is approved and disseminated Third Line of Defence is also described.
across legal entities and businesses, with The Third Line of Defence comprises limits specified to control exposures and employees of Internal Audit.
They provide activities that have material concentration Enterprise Risk Management independent assurance to the Barclays Board risk implications for Barclays Group.
and Barclays Group Executive Management Framework ERMF over the effectiveness of governance, risk The ERMF sets the strategic direction for risk Roles and responsibilities management and control.
management by defining standards, objectives in the management of risk The Legal function does not sit in any of the and responsibilities for all areas of Barclays three lines, but supports them all.
The Legal The Three Lines of Defence Group.
It supports senior management in function is, however, subject to oversight effective risk management and developing All colleagues are responsible for from Risk and Compliance with respect to understanding and managing risks within a strong risk culture.
the context of their individual roles and The ERMF sets out: responsibilities, as set out below.
Risk committees principal risks faced by Barclays Group Product risk type committees consider First Line of Defence risk appetite requirements risk matters relevant to their business, The First Line of Defence comprises all roles and responsibilities for risk and escalate as required to the Group Risk employees engaged in the revenue generating management Committee GRC, whose Chairman, in turn, and client facing areas of Barclays Group and escalates to Barclays PLC Board Committees Risk committee structure.
all associated support functions, including and the Barclays PLC Board.
Finance, Treasury, Human Resources and the Chief Operating Office COO function.
There are three Board-level forums which Principal risks Employees in the First Line are responsible for: oversee the application of the ERMF and The ERMF identifies eight principal risks identifying the risks in their activities and review and monitor risk across the see table on page 29 of the Strategic Report developing appropriate policies, standards Barclays Group.
These are: the Barclays PLC and sets out associated responsibilities and and controls Board Risk Committee, the Barclays PLC risk management standards.
Board Audit Committee, and the Barclays PLC operating within any and all limits which Board Reputation Committee.
Additionally, the Risk and Compliance functions establish the Barclays PLC Board Remuneration over the exposures and activities of the Committee oversees pay practices focusing first line: and on aligning pay to sustainable performance.
escalating risk events to senior managers Finally, the Barclays PLC Board receives in Risk and Compliance.
regular information on the risk profile of Second Line of Defence Barclays Group, and has ultimate responsibility The Second Line of Defence comprises for risk appetite and capital plans.
employees of Risk and Compliance.
The role of the Second Line is to establish the limits, rules and constraints under which First Line activities shall be performed, consistent with Board Committees Barclays PLC Board Barclays Barclays Barclays Barclays PLC Board PLC Board PLC Board PLC Board Risk Audit Reputation Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Management Level Barclays Barclays Group Risk Committee Barclays Group Committees Forums Group ExCo Remuneration Review Panel Business Level Barclays Group Committees Forums Product Risk Type Committees home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 129 Risk review Risk management Barclays Groups risk management strategy The Barclays PLC Board The Barclays PLC Board Remuneration Other risk culture drivers One of the Boards responsibilities is the Committee RemCo In addition to values and conduct, we consider approval of risk appetite refer to page 139 The RemCo receives a detailed report on risk the following determinants of risk culture: of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 management performance and risk profile, management and governance: this means unaudited.
The Barclays Group CRO and proposals on ex-ante and ex-post risk a consistent tone from the top and clear regularly presents a report to the Board adjustments to variable remuneration.
responsibilities to enable risk identification summarising developments in the risk These inputs are considered in the setting and challenge environment and performance trends in the of performance incentives.
motivation and incentives: the right key portfolios.
The Board is also responsible The terms of reference and additional behaviours are rewarded and modelled for the ERMF.
details on membership and activities for competence and effectiveness: this means Summaries of the relevant skills, experience each of the principal Board Committees are that colleagues are enabled to identify, available from the Corporate Governance and background of the Directors of the Board escalate and resolve risk and control matters are presented in the Board of Directors section section of Barclays Groups website at: integrity: colleagues are willing to meet home.
barclays about-barclays on pages 51 to 52. their risk management responsibilities, .
The Barclays PLC Board Risk and escalate issues on a timely basis.
Committee BRC The BRC monitors Barclays Groups risk profile Barclays Groups risk culture against the agreed appetite.
Where actual Risk culture can be defined as the norms, performance differs from expectations, the attitudes and behaviours related to risk actions taken by management are reviewed awareness, risk taking and risk management.
to ascertain that the BRC is comfortable with At Barclays Group this is reflected in how them.
After each meeting, the Chairman of colleagues identify, escalate and manage the BRC prepares a report for the next meeting risk matters.
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Our Code of Conduct the Barclays Way Globally, all colleagues must attest to the The BRC receives regular reports on risk Barclays Way, our Code of Conduct, and all methodologies, the effectiveness of the frameworks, policies and standards applicable risk management framework, and Barclays to their roles.
The Code of Conduct outlines Groups risk profile, including the material the purpose and values which govern our issues affecting each business portfolio and Barclays Way of working across our business forward risk trends.
It constitutes a reference point commissions in-depth analyses of significant covering the aspects of colleagues working risk topics, which are presented by the relationships, with other Barclays Groups Barclays Group CRO or senior risk managers employees, customers and clients, in the businesses.
The Chairman of the BRC governments and regulators, business also sits on the BAC.
partners, suppliers, competitors and the The Barclays PLC Board Audit broader community.
Committee BAC Embedding of a values-based, The BAC receives regular reports on the conduct culture effectiveness of internal control systems, Conduct, culture and values remain a priority quarterly reports on material control issues of the Barclays Group Executive Committee of significance, and quarterly papers on who receive regular, detailed information from accounting judgements including the business lines, and clearly communicate impairment.
It also receives a half-yearly their intentions and the Barclays Groups review of the adequacy of impairment progress to all colleagues.
The effectiveness allowances, which it reviews relative to the of the risk and control environment, for which risk inherent in the portfolios, the business all colleagues are responsible, depends on environment and Barclays Groups policies the continued embedment of strong values.
The Chairman of the Colleagues must be willing to meet their risk BAC also sits on the BRC.
management responsibilities and escalate The Barclays PLC Board Reputation issues on a timely basis.
Refer to the Board Committee RepCo Reputation Committee report on page 73 The RepCo reviews managements for further details.
recommendations on conduct and reputation Induction programmes support new risk and the effectiveness of the processes by colleagues in understanding how risk which Barclays Group identifies and manages management culture and practices support these risks.
It also reviews and monitors the how Barclays Group does business and the effectiveness of Barclays Groups citizenship link to Barclays Groups values.
The Leadership strategy, including the management of Curriculum covers the building, sustaining and Barclays Groups economic, social and supporting of a trustworthy organisation and environmental contribution.
is offered to colleagues globally.
130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Material existing and emerging risks This could be exacerbated by a renewed concern around the ability of authorities Material existing and rise in asset price volatility or sustained to manage growth while transitioning from emerging risks to Barclays pressure on government finances.
In addition, manufacturing towards services.
Although geopolitical tensions in some areas of the the Chinese governments efforts to stably Groups future performance world are at risk of further deterioration, thus increase the weight of domestic demand have Material risks are those to which senior potentially increasing market uncertainties had some success, the pace of credit growth management pay particular attention and and adverse global economic and market remains a concern, given the high level of which could cause the delivery of Barclays conditions, which in turn could adversely leverage and despite regulatory action.
Groups strategy, results of operations, affect Barclays Groups profitability in certain A stronger than expected slowdown could financial condition and or prospects to differ result if authorities fail to appropriately geographical locations.
manage the end of the investment and In the UK, the vote in favour of leaving the credit-led boom.
Emerging risks are those which have largely European Union EU, see ii Process of UK unknown components, the impact of which withdrawal from the European Union below, Deterioration in emerging markets could could crystallise over a longer time horizon.
affect Barclays Group if it results in higher has given rise to political uncertainty with These could currently be considered potential consequences for investment and impairment charges for Barclays Group via immaterial but over time may individually or market confidence.
The initial impact was a sovereign or counterparty defaults.
cumulatively affect Barclays Groups strategy depreciation of Sterling resulting in higher More broadly, a deterioration of conditions and cause the same outcomes as material costs for companies exposed to imports and in the key markets where Barclays Group risks.
In addition, certain factors beyond a more favourable environment for exporters.
operates could affect performance in a Barclays Groups control, including escalation Rising domestic costs resulting from higher number of ways including, for example: of terrorism or global conflicts, natural import prices may impact household incomes i deteriorating business, consumer or disasters and similar calamities, although not and the affordability of consumer loans and investor confidence indirectly having a detailed below, could have a similar impact mortgages, resulting in reduced business and, material adverse impact on GDP growth in on Barclays Group.
thereby, negatively impacting Barclays Groups significant markets and therefore on Barclays profitability.
In turn this may affect businesses The risks described below are material Groups performance: ii mark to market dependent on consumers for revenue, existing and emerging risks which senior losses in trading portfolios resulting from exacerbated by current pressures on management has identified with respect changes in factors such as credit ratings, businesses dependent on discretionary to Barclays Group.
share prices and solvency of counterparties: purchases.
There has also been a reduction iii reduced ability to obtain capital from in activity in both commercial and residential other financial institutions for Barclays Groups Material existing and real estate markets which has the potential operations: and iv lower levels of fixed asset to impact the value of real estate assets emerging risks potentially investment and productivity growth overall.
and adversely affect mortgage assets.
impacting more than one Furthermore, continued uncertainty in the ii Process of UK withdrawal from withdrawal process could have a detrimental the European Union principal risk effect in the economic environment in The uncertainty around Brexit spanned the i Business conditions, general economy continental Europe, which may negatively whole of 2018, and intensified in the second and geopolitical issues impact Barclays Groups business in specific half of the year.
The full impact of the The Barclays Group business mix spreads Eurozone countries.
withdrawal may only be realised in years to across multiple geographies and client types.
come, as the economy adjusts to the new In the US, where the economy outperformed The breadth of these operations means that regime, but Barclays Group continues to other key markets in 2018, there is the deterioration in the economic environment, monitor the most relevant risks, including possibility of significant continued changes or an increase in political instability in those that may have a more immediate in policy in sectors including trade, healthcare countries where Barclays Group is active, impact, for its business.
and commodities which may have an impact or in any systemically important economy, on associated Barclays Group portfolios.
Market volatility, including in currencies could adversely affect Barclays Groups A significant proportion of Barclays Groups and interest rates, might increase which operating performance, financial condition portfolio is located in the US, including a could have an impact on the value of and prospects.
major credit card portfolio and a range of Barclays Groups trading book positions.
Although economic activity continued to corporate and investment banking exposures.
Potential UK financial institutions credit strengthen globally in 2018, a change in Stress in the US economy, weakening GDP spread widening could lead to reduced global economic conditions and the reversal and the associated exchange rate fluctuations, investor appetite for Barclays Groups debt of the improving trend may result in lower heightened trade tensions, an unexpected rise securities: this could negatively impact the client activity in Barclays Group, including in unemployment and or an increase in cost of, and or access to, funding.
There is lower demand for borrowing from interest rates could lead to increased levels potential for continued market and interest creditworthy customers, and or a reduction of impairment, resulting in a negative impact rate volatility.
This volatility could affect in the value of related collateral and or an on Barclays Groups profitability.
underlying interest rate risk value of the increase of Barclays Groups default rates, assets in the banking book and securities As anticipated, most major central banks have delinquencies, write-offs, and impairment held by Barclays Group for liquidity purposes.
started tightening their monetary policies in charges, which in turn could adversely affect 2018 and there remains a possibility that this A credit rating agency downgrade applied Barclays Groups performance and prospects.
The risk of large capital flows directly to Barclays Group, or indirectly as Deteriorating economic conditions could also spawned by divergent or differently timed a result of a credit rating agency downgrade impact the ability of Barclays Group to raise policies remains, and this will continue to to the UK Government, could significantly funding from external investors.
In addition, provide financial market turbulence, in increase Barclays Groups borrowing costs, a shift in the forward looking consensus view particular in emerging market economies.
credit spreads and materially adversely of economic conditions may materially impact This may negatively impact Barclays Groups affect Barclays Groups interest margins the models used to calculate expected credit business in the affected regions, under both and liquidity position.
losses ECL, where an increase in ECLs could profiles of credit and market risk.
adversely affect Barclays Groups profitability.
Changes in the long-term outlook for UK interest rates may adversely affect pension Sentiment towards emerging markets as a In several countries, reversals of capital liabilities and the market value of whole continues to be driven in large part by inflows, as well as fiscal austerity, have already investments funding those liabilities.
developments in China, where there is some caused deterioration in political stability.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 131 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks Increased risk of a UK recession with iii Interest rate rises adversely impacting There are several other significant pieces lower growth, higher unemployment and credit conditions of legislation and areas of focus which will falling UK house prices.
This would likely To the extent that central banks increase require significant management attention, negatively impact a number of Barclays interest rates particularly in Barclays Groups cost and resource, including: Groups portfolios, notably: higher Loan main markets, in the UK and the US, there Changes in prudential requirements to Value mortgages, UK unsecured lending could be an impact on consumer debt including the risk reduction measures including credit cards and commercial affordability and corporate profitability.
package recently adopted in the EU to real estate exposures.
amend the Capital Requirements Directive While interest rate rises could positively The implementation of trade and customs CRD IV and the Bank Recovery and impact Barclays Groups profitability, as retail barriers between the UK and EU could lead Resolution Directive BRRD may impact and corporate business income may increase to delays and increased costs in the passage minimum requirements for own funds due to margin decompression, future interest of goods for corporate banking customers.
and eligible liabilities MREL including rate increases, if larger or more frequent This could negatively impact the levels of requirements for internal MREL, leverage, than expectations, could cause stress in the customer defaults and business volumes liquidity or funding requirements, applicable lending portfolio and underwriting activity of which may result in an increase in Barclays buffers and or add-ons to such minimum Barclays Group.
Higher credit losses driving an Groups impairment charges and a reduction requirements and risk weighted assets increased impairment allowance would most in revenues.
calculation methodologies all as may be set notably impact retail unsecured portfolios by international, EU or national authorities.
Changes to current EU Passporting and wholesale non-investment grade lending.
Such or similar changes to prudential rights may require further adjustment Changes in interest rates could have an requirements or additional supervisory and to the current model for Barclays Groups adverse impact on the value of high quality prudential expectations, either individually cross-border banking operation which liquid assets which are part of the Barclays or in aggregate, may result in, among other could increase operational complexity Group Treasury functions investment activity.
things, a need for further management and or costs.
Consequently, this could create more volatility actions to meet the changed requirements, The ability to attract, or prevent the than expected through Barclays Groups such as: increasing capital, MREL or liquidity departure of, qualified and skilled employees FVOCI reserves.
resources, reducing leverage and risk may be impacted by the UKs and the weighted assets: restricting distributions iv Regulatory change agenda and impact EUs future approach to the EU freedom on capital instruments: modifying the on business model of movement and immigration from the terms of outstanding capital instruments: Barclays Group remains subject to ongoing EU countries and this may impact Barclays modifying legal entity structure including significant levels of regulatory change and Groups access to the EU talent pool.
with regard to issuance and deployment scrutiny in many of the countries in which it The legal framework within which Barclays of capital, MREL and funding : changing operates including, in particular, the UK and Group operates could change and become Barclays Groups business mix or exiting the US.
As a result, regulatory risk will remain more uncertain if the UK takes steps to other businesses: and or undertaking a focus for senior management and consume replace or repeal certain laws currently other actions to strengthen Barclays Groups significant levels of business resources.
in force, which are based on EU legislation position.
See Treasury and capital risk Furthermore, a more intensive regulatory and regulation including EU regulation of on pages181 to 207 and Supervision approach and enhanced requirements the banking sector following its withdrawal and regulation on pages 215 to 222 for together with the uncertainty particularly from the EU.
Certainty around the ability more information.
in light of the UKs withdrawal from the EU to perform existing contracts, enforceability and potential lack of international regulatory The derivatives market has been the subject of certain legal obligations and uncertainty co-ordination as enhanced supervisory of particular focus for regulators in recent around the jurisdiction of the UK courts standards are developed and implemented years across the G20 countries and beyond, may be affected until the impacts of the may adversely affect Barclays Groups with regulations introduced which require loss of the current legal and regulatory business, capital and risk management the reporting and clearing of standardised arrangements between the UK and EU strategies and or may result in Barclays Group over the counter OTC derivatives and the and the enforceability of UK judgements deciding to modify its legal entity, capital and mandatory margining of non-cleared OTC across the EU are fully known.
funding structures and business mix, or to derivatives.
Other regulations applicable to Should the UK lose automatic qualification exit certain business activities altogether swap dealers, including those promulgated to be part of Single Euro Payments Area or not to expand in areas despite otherwise by the US Commodity Futures Trading there could be a resultant impact on the attractive potential.
Commission, have imposed significant costs efficiency of, and access to, European on Barclays Groups derivatives business.
Barclays Bank UK Group was established on payment systems.
In addition, loss of The increased regulation of swaps and 1 April 2018 as the ring-fenced entity under automatic qualification to the European security-based swaps may also result in Barclays Group.
The relevant rules required to Economic Area EEA or access to Financial other increases in costs for market comply with the UK ring-fencing regime are Markets Infrastructure including exchanges, participants, as well as reduced liquidity complex and will continue to entail significant central counterparties and payment services in the markets for such instruments, costs and operational and legal risks.
There could impact service provision for clients, which could cause further increases in may be a risk associated with the uncertainty likely resulting in reduced market share costs and volatility.
These and any future around interpretation, administration and and revenue and increased operating costs requirements, including the US SECs enforcement of the ring-fencing regime as for Barclays Group.
regulations relating to security-based swaps the regulatory requirements develop.
This risk and the possibility of overlapping and or There are certain execution risks relating is compounded by the potential for different to the transfer of Barclays Groups European contradictory requirements imposed on regulatory interpretation as standards are derivative transactions by regulators in businesses to Barclays Bank Ireland Group.
developed, the impact of the UKs withdrawal Technology change could result in outages different jurisdictions, are expected to from the EU and internal factors, such as continue to impact such business in the or operational errors leading to delays in the Barclays Groups strategy.
Failure to maintain transfer of assets and liabilities to Barclays same manner.
ongoing compliance, including from the Bank Ireland Group, and delayed delivery implementation of any new regulatory More broadly, compliance with the evolving could lead to European clients losing access requirements that may potentially be regulatory framework entails significant costs to products and service and increased enforced, could result in regulatory for market participants and is having a reputational risk.
censure or penalties for Barclays Group.
significant impact on certain markets in which Barclays Group operates.
The recast Markets 132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information in Financial Instruments Directive in Europe between a customer and their bank.
Softening demand, rising costs MiFID II, which came into force in January this by providing customers with the ability and a structural shift to online is fuelling 2018, has fundamentally changed the to share their transactional data with pressure on the UK High Street.
Whilst we European regulatory framework entailing authorised third-party service providers have not seen any material impact, as the significant operational changes for market either for aggregation or payment services.
UK retailer market repositions itself the participants in a wide range of financial It is anticipated that both aggregation and trend represents a potential risk in our UK instruments as well as changes in market payment services will be offered by third corporate portfolio.
In addition, the EU parties to Barclay Groups customers and Consumer affordability has remained a Benchmarks Regulation, which also came Barclays Group itself has launched an key area of focus for regulators, particularly into force in January 2018, regulates the use aggregation service.
PSD2 will also introduce in unsecured lending, driven by the growth of benchmarks in the EU.
In particular, after new requirements to the authentication in levels of borrowing.
Macroeconomic 1 January 2020 certain Barclays Group entities process for a number of actions customers factors, such as rising unemployment, will not be permitted to use benchmarks take, including ecommerce transactions.
that impact a customers ability to service unless the relevant administrator is authorised, A failure to comply with Open Banking unsecured debt payments could lead to registered or qualifies under a third-party requirements could expose Barclays Group increased arrears in unsecured products.
This may necessitate adapting to regulatory sanction.
Further, the data UK real estate market.
UK property processes and systems to transition to new sharing regime could mean that actions or represents a significant portion of the alternative benchmarks, which would be omissions by third-party service providers overall Barclays Group retail and corporate a very time-consuming and costly process.
could expose Barclays Group to potential credit exposure.
In 2018, property price Separately, the transition to risk-free rates financial loss from third-party fraud, misuse growth across the UK continued, however, as part of a wider benchmark reform is also of customer data, litigation and reputational this growth has slowed in London and the expected to be impactful to Barclays Group detriment, amongst other things.
The South East where Barclays Groups exposure in respect of the timing of the development changes to authentication may change the has high concentration.
Barclays Group of a robust risk free rate market, an fraud environment across the industry as is at risk of increased impairment from unfavourable market reaction and or providers implement different approaches a material fall in property prices due to inconsistencies in the adoption of products to comply.
the depreciation in value of the underlying using the new risk free rates, and also in loan security.
respect of the costs and uncertainties involved Material existing and Leverage finance underwriting.
Barclays in managing and or changing historical Group takes on sub-investment grade emerging risks impacting products to reference risk free rates as a result underwriting exposure, including single of the proposed discontinuation of certain individual principal risks name risk, particularly in the US and existing benchmarks.
Europe Barclays Group is exposed to credit i Credit risk Barclays Group and certain of its members events and market volatility during the a Impairment are subject to supervisory stress testing underwriting period.
Any adverse events The introduction of the impairment exercises in a number of jurisdictions.
These during this period may potentially result requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, exercises currently include the programmes in loss for Barclays Group, or an increased implemented on 1 January 2018, results of the BoE, the EBA, the FDIC and the FRB.
capital requirement should there be a need in impairment loss allowances that are These exercises are designed to assess the to hold the exposure for an extended period.
recognised earlier, on a more forward looking resilience of banks to adverse economic or basis and on a broader scope of financial Italian portfolio.
Barclays Group is exposed financial developments and enforce robust, instruments than has been the case under to a decline in the Italian economic forward looking capital and liquidity IAS 39 and has had, and may continue to environment through a mortgage portfolio management processes that account for have, a material impact on Barclays Groups in run-off and positions to wholesale the risks associated with their business financial condition.
The Italian economy tipped into profile.
Assessment by regulators is on both an official recession at the end of 2018 and a quantitative and qualitative basis, the Measurement involves increased complex should the economy deteriorate further, latter focusing on Barclays Groups or judgement and impairment charges will tend there could be a material adverse effect on certain of its members business model, to be more volatile, particularly under stressed Barclays Groups results including, but not data provision, stress testing capability conditions.
Unsecured products with longer limited to, increased credit losses and higher and internal management processes and expected lives, such as revolving credit cards, impairment charges.
The stress testing requirements to are the most impacted.
Taking into account which Barclays Group and its members are the transitional regime, the capital treatment Barclays Group also has large individual subject are becoming increasingly stringent.
on the increased reserves has the potential exposures to single name counterparties, Failure to meet requirements of regulatory to adversely impact regulatory capital ratios.
both in its lending activities and in its financial stress tests, or the failure by regulators to services and trading activities, including In addition, the move from incurred to approve the stress test results and capital transactions in derivatives and transactions expected credit losses has the potential to plans of Barclays Group, could result in with brokers, central clearing houses, dealers, impact Barclays Groups performance under Barclays Group being required to enhance other banks, mutual and hedge funds and stressed economic conditions or regulatory its capital position, limit capital distributions other institutional clients.
The default of stress tests.
For more information, refer to or position additional capital in specific such counterparties could have a significant Note 1 on pages 264 to 267. subsidiaries.
For more information on stress impact on the carrying value of these assets.
testing, refer to Supervision and regulation b Specific sectors and concentrations In addition, where such counterparty risk has on page 218.
Barclays Group is subject to risks arising from been mitigated by taking collateral, credit risk changes in credit quality and recovery rate The introduction and implementation of may remain high if the collateral held cannot of loans and advances due from borrowers both Payments Service Directive 2 PSD2 be realised, or has to be liquidated at prices and counterparties in a specific portfolio.
and the Open API standards and data which are insufficient to recover the full Any deterioration in credit quality could lead sharing remedy from the UK Competition amount of the loan or derivative exposure.
to lower recoverability and higher impairment and Markets Authority following its Retail Any such defaults could have a material in a specific sector.
The following are areas Banking Market Investigation Order adverse effect on Barclays Groups results of uncertainties to Barclays Groups portfolio together Open Banking from January due to, for example, increased credit losses which could have a material impact 2018 with delivery across 2019 provides and higher impairment charges.
on performance: third parties and banks with opportunities to change and enhance the relationship home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 133 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks c Environmental risk by Barclays Group failing to preserve the iv Operational risk a Cyber threat Barclays Group is exposed to credit risks current level of customer and investor arising from energy and climate change.
Barclays Group also regularly The frequency of cyberattacks continues to grow and is a global threat which is inherent Indirect risks may be incurred as a result of accesses the capital markets to provide environmental issues impacting the credit short-term and long-term funding to support across all industries, including the financial sector and is a key area of focus for Barclays worthiness of the borrower resulting in higher its operations.
For further details on Barclays adverse macroeconomic conditions, adverse Group.
The financial sector remains a primary target for cyber criminals.
There is an Groups approach to energy and climate outcomes in legal, regulatory or conduct change, refer to page 26 of the TCFD section matters and loss of confidence by investors, increasing level of sophistication in both criminal and nation state hacking for the of the Strategic Report and page 151 of the counterparties and or customers in Barclays Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report unaudited.
Group, can affect the ability of Barclays Group purpose of stealing money, stealing, destroying or manipulating data, including to access the capital markets and or the cost ii Market risk and other terms upon which Barclays Group customer data, and or disrupting operations, Market volatility with threats arising from malicious emails, is able to obtain market funding.
An uncertain outlook for the direction of distributed denial of service DDoS attacks, monetary policy, the US-China trade conflict, c Credit rating changes and the impact payment system compromises, supply chain on funding costs slowing global growth and political concerns and vulnerability exploitation.
Other events in the US and Europe including Brexit are Any potential or actual credit rating agency have a compounding impact on services downgrades could significantly increase some of the factors that could heighten and customers, e. g. data breaches in social market risks for Barclays Groups portfolios.
Barclays Groups borrowing costs, credit networking sites, retail companies and spreads and materially adversely affect In addition, Barclays Groups trading business payments networks.
Barclays Groups interest margins and liquidity is generally exposed to a prolonged period position.
Consequently, this may result in Failure to adequately manage this threat could of elevated asset price volatility, particularly if reduced profitability for Barclays Group.
result in increased fraud losses, inability to it negatively affects the depth of marketplace perform critical economic functions, customer liquidity.
Such a scenario could impact d Adverse changes in FX rates impacting detriment, potential regulatory censure Barclays Groups ability to execute client capital ratios or penalties, legal liability, reduction in trades and may also result in lower client Barclays Group has capital resources, risk shareholder value and reputational damage.
flow-driven income and or market-based weighted assets and leverage exposures losses on its existing portfolio of market risks.
Changes b Fraud The level and nature of fraud threats These can include having to absorb higher in foreign currency exchange rates may hedging costs from rebalancing risks that adversely impact the Sterling equivalent value continues to evolve, particularly with the increasing use of digital products and the need to be managed dynamically as market of these items.
As a result, Barclays Groups levels and their associated volatilities change.
regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign greater functionality available online.
Criminals continue to adapt their techniques currency movements.
Failure to appropriately iii Treasury and capital risk manage Barclays Groups balance sheet to and are increasingly focused on targeting Barclays Group may not be able to achieve its customers and clients through ever more take account of foreign currency movements business plans due to: a inability to maintain could result in an adverse impact on sophisticated methods of social engineering.
appropriate capital ratios: b inability to meet External data breaches also provide criminals regulatory capital and leverage ratios.
its obligations as they fall due: c rating with the opportunity to exploit the growing agency downgrades: d adverse changes e Adverse movements in the pension fund levels of compromised data.
These threats Adverse movements in pension assets in foreign exchange rates on capital ratios: could lead to customer detriment, loss of e adverse movements in the pension fund: and liabilities for defined benefit pension business, regulatory censure, missed business schemes could result in deficits on a funding and f non-traded market risk interest rate opportunity and reputational damage.
This could lead to Barclays Group making substantial additional Recent changes in the regulatory landscape a Inability to maintain prudential ratios will see increased levels of liability being taken contributions to its pension plans and or a and other regulatory requirements deterioration in its capital position.
Under by Barclays Group as part of a voluntary code This could lead to Barclays Groups inability in the UK to provide additional protection IAS 19 the liabilities discount rate is derived to support business activity: a failure to meet from the yields of high quality corporate bonds.
to customers and clients who are victims regulatory capital requirements including any of Authorised Push Payment scams.
Therefore, the valuation of Barclays Groups additional capital add-ons or the requirements set for regulatory stress tests: increased cost defined benefits schemes would be adversely c Operational resilience affected by a prolonged fall in the discount The loss of or disruption to Barclays Groups of funding due to deterioration in investor appetite or credit ratings: restrictions on rate due to a persistent low rate and or business processing is a material inherent credit spread environment.
Inflation is another risk theme within Barclays Group and across distributions including the ability to meet dividend targets: and or the need to take significant risk driver to the pension fund as the financial services industry, whether arising the liabilities are adversely impacted by an through impacts on technology systems, additional measures to strengthen Barclays Groups capital or leverage position.
increase in long-term inflation expectations.
real estate services, personnel availability or the support of major suppliers.
b Inability to manage liquidity and funding f Non-traded market risk interest rate risk Failure to build resilience into business risk effectively in the banking book This may result in Barclays Group either not A shortfall in the liquidity pool investment processes or into the services of technology, real estate or suppliers on which Barclays having sufficient financial resources to meet return could increase Barclays Groups cost its payment obligations as they fall due or, of funds and impact the capital ratios.
Groups business processes depend, may result in significant customer detriment, although solvent, only being able to meet Barclays Groups structural hedge programmes these obligations at excessive cost.
This could for interest rate risk in the banking book rely costs to reimburse losses incurred by our customers, potential regulatory censure cause Barclays Group to fail to meet regulatory on behavioural assumptions, as a result, liquidity standards or be unable to support the success of the hedging strategy is not or penalties, and reputational damage.
A potential mismatch in the d Supplier exposure balance or duration of the hedge assumptions The stability of Barclays Groups current Barclays Group depends on suppliers, could lead to earnings deterioration.
including Barclays Services Limited, for the funding profile, in particular that part which is based on accounts and deposits payable on provision of many of its services and the development of technology.
Even though demand or at short notice, could be affected 134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
