Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk performance Reputation risk Reputation risk The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the firms integrity and competence by clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or the public.
All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
RepCo reviewed risks escalated by the Overview businesses and considered whether Reputation risk may arise from any business managements proposed actions, for example decision or activity.
It may also arise as a attaching conditions to proposed client result of issues and incidents relevant to other transactions or increased engagement with principal risks, in particular other non-financial impacted stakeholders, were appropriate risks e. g. conduct or operational risk.
to mitigate the risks effectively.
RepCo also Reputation risks and issues are identified received regular updates with regard to key via regular information gathering from within reputation risks and issues, including: legacy the business and from external stakeholders.
conduct issues: Barclays association with Some risks and issues are specific to Barclays sensitive sectors: cyber and data security: Group, while others are also relevant to the consumer and household debt: fraud and banking sector more generally.
scams that could impact Barclays customers and the resilience of key Barclays systems Barclays has set tolerances for reputation risk, and processes.
which take into account the risks arising from specific events or decisions and longer-term Barclays Group continued to incur significant strategic themes.
The primary responsibility costs in relation to litigation and conduct for managing reputation risk lies with each matters, refer to Note 27 Legal, competition business and function, where there are and regulatory matters and Note 25 Provisions processes in place to identify, assess and for further details.
Costs include customer manage reputation risks and issues.
redress and remediation, as well as fines and settlements.
Resolution of these matters There are circumstances, however, where remains a necessary and important part of it is necessary to escalate to Barclays Group delivering Barclays Groups strategy and an level the evaluation of the reputation risk ongoing commitment to improve oversight associated with particular decisions beyond of culture and conduct and management an individual, business or function.
is the most senior executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness In 2018, the central reputation management of Barclays management of reputation risk.
team received 486 referrals from across the businesses 581 referrals in 2017 for consideration.
These referrals covered a Summary of performance variety of sectors including, but not limited in the period to, defence, fossil fuels and mining.
Barclays is committed to identifying reputation As part of Barclays 2018 Medium-Term risks and issues as early as possible and Planning Process, material reputation risks managing them appropriately.
At a Barclays associated with strategic and financial plans Group level throughout 2018, reputation risks were also assessed.
and issues were overseen by the Board Reputation Committee RepCo, which reviews the processes and policies by which Barclays identifies and manages reputation risk.
Within Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank Group oversight of reputation risks and issues was overseen by the respective Risk and Board Risk committees.
The top live and emerging reputation risks and issues within Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank Group are included within an over-arching quarterly report to RepCo.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 213 Risk review Risk performance Legal risk Legal risk The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations including regulatory or contractual requirements.
Overview Summary of performance Barclays conducts diverse activities in a in the period highly regulated global market and therefore In 2018, Barclays remained focused on is exposed to the risk of loss or imposition continuous improvements to manage legal of penalties, damages, fines and sanctions risk effectively, with an emphasis on enhancing relating to a failure to meet its legal and establishing processes to help identify obligations in the conduct of its business.
risks at earlier stages and escalate Legal risk encompasses the failure of Barclays as appropriate.
to appropriately seek legal advice, escalate or manage contractual arrangements, litigation, This is supported by the LRMF, which was intellectual property, competition anti-trust reviewed and enhanced to clarify Group-wide issues, its use of law firms and its contact requirements relating to the identification, with regulators.
Barclays has limited tolerance management and measurement of legal risk.
for legal risk, however the multitude of laws The LRMF is supported by legal risk policies and regulations across the globe are highly and associated standards covering areas of dynamic and their application to particular identified legal risk and mandatory minimum circumstances is often unclear.
An additional legal risk Management Framework LRMF includes policy has been created and implemented Group-wide requirements covering how legal in relation to the engagement of the Legal risks are identified, managed and measured Function with respect to key business to support effective management of legal risk.
For further information on the legal risk policies, see legal risk management on page 148.
Refreshed legal risk mandatory training was also implemented across Barclays, reinforced by ongoing engagement and education of Barclays businesses and functions.
The Legal Function organisation and coverage model aligns expertise to businesses, functions, products, activities and geographic locations.
It continues to provide legal support, oversight, monitoring and challenge across the organisation, including advising on appropriate identification, management and escalation of legal risk.
The Legal Executive Committee continues to oversee, monitor and challenge legal risk across Barclays.
214 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Supervision and regulation Supervision of Barclays Group In addition, the Financial Policy Committee in Barclays Group is carried out through a FPC of the BoE has influence on the combination of proactive engagement, regular Barclays Groups operations, including its overseas branches, subsidiaries and prudential requirements that may be imposed thematic work and project work based on the on the banking system through its powers FCAs sector assessments, which analyse the associates, are subject to a large number of rules and regulations that are a condition of direction and recommendation.
different areas of the market and the risks that may lie ahead.
for authorisations to conduct banking and Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC financial services business in each of the Both the PRA and the FCA have continued are authorised and subject to prudential jurisdictions in which Barclays Group operates.
supervision by the PRA and subject to conduct to develop and apply a more pre-emptive These apply to business operations, impact approach to supervision and the application regulation and supervision by the FCA.
financial returns and include capital, leverage Barclays Group is also subject to prudential of existing standards.
This may include the and liquidity requirements, authorisation, application of standards that either anticipate supervision by the PRA on a group registration and reporting requirements, consolidated basis.
Barclays Services Limited or go beyond requirements established by restrictions on certain activities, conduct global or EU standards, whether in relation is an appointed representative of Barclays of business regulations and many others.
Bank PLC and Clydesdale Financial Services to capital, leverage and liquidity, resolvability These requirements are set in legislation and and resolution or matters of conduct.
This status enables by the relevant central banks and regulatory Barclays Services Limited to undertake authorities that authorise, regulate and The FCA has retained an approach to activities which would otherwise require enforcement based on credible deterrence supervise Barclays Group in the jurisdictions authorisation, with the principals assuming that has seen significant growth in the size in which it operates.
Often, the requirements regulatory responsibility for the conduct of regulatory fines.
The approach appears may reflect global standards developed of Barclays Services Limited as their to be trending towards a more US model of by international bodies such as the G20, appointed representative.
enforcement including vigorous enforcement the Financial Stability Board FSB, the of criminal and regulatory breaches, Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Barclays Bank Ireland PLC is licensed as a credit institution by the Central Bank of Ireland heightened fines and proposed measures BCBS, and the International Organisation related to increased corporate criminal liability.
and has recently been designated as a significant institution falling under direct Various bodies, such as central banks and The FCA has focused strongly on conduct risk self-regulatory organisations SROs, also supervision on a solo basis by the European and on customer outcomes and will continue Central Bank ECB from 1 January 2019. create voluntary Codes of Conduct which to do so.
This has included a focus on the affect the way Barclays Group does business.
Barclays Bank Ireland PLC has recently design and operation of products, the acquired an extension of its current licence Regulatory developments impact Barclays behaviour of customers and the operation to support Barclays Groups ability to provide of markets.
Recently, the FCA has increased Group globally.
We focus particularly on EU, services to EU clients after Brexit.
Barclays UK and US regulation due to the location of its focus on fair pricing in financial services.
Bank Ireland PLCs German branch is The FCA is also reviewing whether vulnerable Barclays Groups principal areas of business.
supervised by the ECB as part of Barclays Bank Regulations elsewhere may also have a customers pay more for financial services Ireland PLC and is also subject to direct products.
These initiatives may affect both significant impact on Barclays Group due to supervision for local conduct purposes by the location of its branches, subsidiaries and, the incidence of conduct costs and increase the German Federal Financial Supervisory the cost of remediation.
For more information Authority BaFIN in accordance with EU on the risks related to the supervision The FCA and the PRA have also increasingly credit institution branch passporting rules.
and regulation of Barclays Group, including It is expected that all the remaining EU focused on individual accountability regulatory change, see the Risk Factor within firms.
This focus is reflected in the branches of Barclays Bank PLC will have been entitled Regulatory Change agenda and transferred to Barclays Bank Ireland PLC by Senior Managers and Certification Regime impact on Business Model on page 132. the SMCR which came into force in 2016. the end of Q1 2019 and will, following such Supervision in the UK and EU transfer, be supervised by the ECB as part of The SMCR, which implements the recommendations in the final report of Financial regulation in the UK is to a Barclays Bank Ireland PLC and also be subject significant degree shaped and influenced to direct supervision for local conduct the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards relating to individual accountability by EU legislation.
This provides the structure purposes in accordance with EU credit of the European Single Market, an important institution branch passporting rules, by in banks, imposes a regulatory approval, accountability and fitness and propriety feature of which is the framework for the national supervisory authorities in the regulation of authorised firms in the EU.
jurisdiction where they are established.
framework in respect of senior or key individuals within relevant firms.
This framework is designed to enable a credit Barclays Group is also subject to regulatory institution or investment firm authorised in initiatives undertaken by the UK Payment The UK Serious Fraud Office SFO has played one EU member state to conduct banking or Systems Regulator PSR, as a participant an active role in recent years in investigating investment business in another member state in payment systems regulated by the PSR.
and prosecuting complex fraud, bribery and through the establishment of branches or by In its role as supervisor, the PRA seeks to corruption.
If, as a result of an investigation, the provision of services on a cross-border maintain the safety and soundness of financial the SFO determines that it has sufficient basis without the need for local authorisation.
institutions with the aim of strengthening, but evidence to support a realistic prospect Barclays Groups operations in Europe are not guaranteeing, the protection of customers of conviction, and to prosecute would be in authorised and regulated by a combination and the financial system.
The PRAs continuing the public interest, the SFO may bring forward of both home and host regulators.
The impact supervision of financial institutions is a prosecution.
Alternatively, the SFO may of the UKs departure from the EU in this conducted through a variety of regulatory consider using a Deferred Prosecution respect and, more broadly, its impact on the tools, including the collection of information Agreement DPA.
DPAs, which were UK domestic regulatory framework, is yet by way of prudential returns, reports obtained introduced in February 2014, are judicially to be finally determined.
In the UK, the Bank from skilled persons, visits to firms and supervised agreements between the SFO of England BoE has responsibility for regular meetings with management and and organisations that could be prosecuted monitoring the UK financial system as a non-executive directors to discuss issues whereby the SFO suspends prosecution whole, including by way of conducting annual such as strategy, operational resilience, risk while the organisation in question complies stress tests on UK banks.
The day-to-day management, and recovery and resolution.
with conditions imposed on it by the DPA, regulation and supervision of Barclays Group such as the payment of fines.
is divided between the Prudential Regulation The regulation and supervision of market Authority PRA a division of the BoE and conduct matters is the responsibility of the the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The FCAs regulation of the UK firms home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 215 Risk review Supervision and regulation Supervision in the US to be well managed and must have at least Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the Reserve Bank of India, the Securities and Barclays Groups US activities and operations a satisfactory rating under the Community are subject to umbrella supervision by the Reinvestment Act of 1977.
Exchange Board of India, the Peoples Bank of China, the State Administration of Foreign Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve In addition to umbrella oversight by the System FRB, as well as additional Exchange of the Peoples Republic of China FRB and applicable Federal Reserve Banks, and the China Banking and Insurance supervision, requirements and restrictions certain of Barclays Groups branches and imposed by other federal and state regulators Regulatory Commission.
Such supervision subsidiaries are regulated by additional and regulation extends to activities conducted and SROs.
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC authorities based on the location or activities and their US branches and subsidiaries through branches of Barclays Bank PLC in of those entities.
The New York and Florida the Asia Pacific region as well as subsidiaries are subject to a comprehensive regulatory branches of Barclays Bank PLC are subject framework involving numerous statutes, rules of Barclays Group as applicable.
to extensive supervision and regulation by, and regulations, including the International as applicable, the New York State Department Global regulatory developments Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding of Financial Services NYSDFS and the Florida Regulatory change continues to affect all large Company Act of 1956 BHC Act, the USA Office of Financial Regulation.
Such change emanates PATRIOT Act of 2001, the Commodity Delaware, a Delaware chartered commercial from global institutions such as the G20, Exchange Act, the federal securities laws, bank, is subject to supervision and regulation FSB, BCBS and IOSCO, the EU regionally, and and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and by the Delaware Office of the State Bank national regulators, especially in the UK and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 DFA, Commissioner.
The deposits of Barclays Bank US.
The level of regulatory and supervisory which comprehensively amended the Delaware are insured by the Federal Deposit uncertainty faced by Barclays Group, and regulation of financial institutions in the US Insurance Corporation FDIC pursuant to the financial markets more broadly, continues in response to the financial crisis, including by the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, which also to remain elevated in our primary markets.
amending the other aforementioned statutes.
provides for FDIC supervisory authority over In the EU, the legislative and regulatory bodies In some cases, US requirements may impose Barclays Bank Delaware and requires that have been implementing, and continue to restrictions on Barclays Groups global Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BUSL act propose, multiple financial regulatory reforms.
activities in addition to its activities in the US.
as a source of strength for the insured bank.
There remains much uncertainty regarding This could, among other things, require these Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, along the state of the future relationship between with Barclays US LLC BUSL, Barclays Groups entities to inject capital into Barclays Bank the UK and the EU and therefore the potential Delaware if it fails to meet applicable top-tier US holding company that holds impact of the UKs withdrawal from the EU on substantially all of Barclays Groups US regulatory capital requirements.
the financial regulatory framework in the UK.
subsidiaries including Barclays Capital Inc. Barclays Groups US securities broker dealer There are several possible outcomes.
and Barclays Bank Delaware, are regulated and investment banking operations, primarily First, the UK could leave the EU with no deal as bank holding companies BHCs by the conducted through Barclays Capital Inc. FRB.
BUSL is subject to requirements that or arrangement covering financial services in are also subject to ongoing supervision place.
At the time of writing, this will happen are similar to those applicable to large and regulation by the Securities and Exchange US domestic bank holding companies, on 29 March 2019.
Under such a scenario, Commission SEC, the Financial Industry with no ability to passport, and no third including in respect of capital adequacy, Regulatory Authority FINRA and other capital planning and stress testing country equivalence-based recognition in government agencies and SROs as part place, Barclays Group entities in the UK would including FRB non-objection to proposed of a comprehensive scheme of regulation no longer be able to provide certain of their capital distributions, risk management and of all aspects of the securities and services from the UK into the EU27 in the way governance, liquidity, leverage limits and commodities business under US federal in which these services are currently provided.
Barclays Bank and state securities laws.
As a result of the onshoring of EU legislation PLCs US branches are also subject to in the UK, UK firms would at least initially enhanced prudential supervision Similarly, Barclays Groups US commodity futures, commodity options and swaps-related be subject to substantially the same rules and requirements relating to, among others, regulations as before Brexit, albeit with EU liquidity and risk management.
and client clearing operations are subject to ongoing supervision and regulation by entities, exposures and assets ceasing to enjoy Because the BHC Act generally restricts the preferential treatment under the UKs financial the Commodity Futures Trading Commission activities of BHCs to banking and activities CFTC, the National Futures Association regulatory framework including for capital closely related to banking, Barclays PLC, and liquidity purposes, given that the EU and other SROs.
Barclays Bank PLC is also Barclays Bank PLC and BUSL have elected prudentially regulated as a swaps dealer and will become a third country for the purposes to be treated as financial holding companies of such framework.
The UK regulators have is subject to the FRB swaps rules with respect under the BHC Act.
Financial holding to margin and capital requirements.
indicated that they will mitigate the impact company status allows these entities to of the removal of preferential treatment by Barclays Groups US retail and consumer engage in a variety of financial and related providing transitional relief for a period of activities, directly or through subsidiaries, activities, including the US credit card up to two years during which preferential operations of Barclays Bank Delaware, are including underwriting, dealing and market treatment will continue to apply.
The UK making in securities.
Failure to maintain subject to direct supervision and regulation may seek to make changes to these rules by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau financial holding company status could going forward, particularly in the event of result in increasingly stringent penalties CFPB.
The CFPB has the authority to examine no deal, where they are not subject to any and take enforcement action related to and ultimately, in the closure or cessation requirements to maintain particular rules of certain operations in the US.
To qualify compliance with federal laws and regulations or standards for equivalence purposes.
regarding the provision of consumer financial as a financial holding company, Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, as foreign banking services and the prohibition of unfair, Secondly, the UK and EU could agree a deal.
deceptive or abusive acts and practices.
This could either take the form of a general organisations and BHCs, and BUSL, as a BHC, must maintain certain regulatory capital ratios withdrawal agreement such as the draft Supervision in Asia Pacific Withdrawal Agreement that Parliament voted above minimum requirements and must be Barclays Groups operations in Asia Pacific deemed to be well managed for US bank against on 15 January 2019 or could be a are supervised and regulated by a broad range series of specific bilateral agreements or regulatory purposes.
In addition, any US of national regulators including: the Japan depository institution subsidiaries of the unilateral measures on financial services Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, topics to facilitate continued provision of foreign banking organisation or BHC must the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the also maintain certain regulatory capital ratios services to and from the UK.
In either case, Securities and Futures Commission of Hong such a deal would likely permit the provision above minimum requirements and be deemed 216 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information of certain services between the UK and the BCBS finalised Basel III the BCBS Group.
The additional G-SIB buffer was subject to phase-in arrangements, with 50% the EU.
In this scenario, firms incorporated international regulatory framework for banks, and authorised in the UK would be able to with the majority of the December 2017 of the buffer requirement applying in 2017, 75% in 2018 and 100% in January 2019. continue to provide services into the EU27, changes expected to be implemented by and firms incorporated and authorised in the 1 January 2022, including by regulators in Barclays Group is also subject to, among other buffers, a countercyclical capital buffer CCyB EU27 would be able to continue to provide many jurisdictions where Barclays Group services into the UK in accordance with the operates.
Various other measures have been based on rates determined by the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which terms of such agreement.
UK firms would agreed at FSB and BCBS level on capital, again be subject to substantially the same including those relating to recovery and Barclays Group maintains exposures.
These rates may vary in either direction.
rules and regulations as before Brexit as a resolution planning of CCPs, the identification result of the onshoring of EU legislation in and management of step-in risk, and TLAC On 27 June 2017, the FPC raised the UK CCyB rate from 0% to 0.5% with binding effect the UK.
There would likely be less scope for discussed in detail below.
regulatory change in the UK as continued from 27 June 2018.
In November 2017, the FPC In December 2018, the Council of the EU raised the UK CCyB rate from 0.5% to 1% access to the EU27 would depend on the UK and the European Parliament announced they maintaining equivalence with the EU and vice with binding effect from 28 November 2018. had reached a provisional political agreement versa and other constraints as may be agreed on the proposed Risk Reduction Measures The FPC has a framework for determining a in such an agreement.
package, which includes the CRD V Directive systemic risk buffer at rates between 0% and and CRR II Regulation and will transpose 3% of risk weighted assets for ring-fenced Thirdly, the UK could decide to delay its withdrawal.
This would require the unanimous many of the Basel III measures into EU law.
bodies and large building societies SRB firms.
The systemic risk buffer is a firm-specific consent of all other EU member states.
Financial regulatory framework In this scenario, UK firms would continue to buffer, that is designed to increase the capacity Financial services regulation can broadly of SRB firms to absorb stress, and which must be subject to EU27 law and services could be categorised as follows: a prudential continue to be provided between the UK and be met solely with CET1.
The framework has regulation, which aims to promote safety and applied from 1 January 2019.
In the UK, the EU on the basis of the existing passporting soundness of financial institutions and reduce arrangements until such time as the UK finally PRA has implemented the systemic risk buffer risk in the financial system: b recovery and framework and requires ring-fenced banks withdraws from the EU in which case one of resolution, a key aspect of which is to ensure the two scenarios described above will apply whose groups are already required to meet that G-SIFIs are capable of being resolved the requirements under the leverage ratio unless it revokes its intention to do so.
without recourse to taxpayer support and framework on a consolidated basis, such Finally, the UK could decide to revoke its minimising market disruption: c structural as Barclays Bank UK PLC, to also meet the intention to withdraw from the EU.
This would reform and the Volcker rule, aimed at requirements on a sub-consolidated basis.
likely only happen for the purposes of holding structurally separating certain wholesale The PRA has also recently announced that a second referendum, if a delay is not agreed activities such as proprietary trading from the systemic risk buffer will be incorporated to unanimously by the EU member states.
retail-focused activities such as taking retail in the calculation of banks stress test hurdle In this scenario, the status quo in relation deposits : d market infrastructure regulation, rates, which are the target capital ratios set to the financial regulatory framework would aimed at enhancing client protection, financial by the regulator, with a view to capturing prevail until the result of that referendum stability and market integrity: and e conduct, domestic systemic importance as well as was known and action taken to implement culture and other regulation, which includes global systemic importance.
regulatory initiatives designed to pursue Final BCBS standards on securitisation any other aims not falling within the previous In the US, the financial regulatory environment categories such as improving standards have been implemented under EU law continues to evolve due to political from 1 January 2019, with a one-year of conduct within financial services firms, developments and the ongoing implementation ensuring the right culture in firms, grandfathering period for existing transactions.
of regulations arising from the DFA and Final BCBS standards on counterparty credit and protecting personal data.
recent amendments to the DFA.
Furthermore, risk, leverage, large exposures and a Net the application of various regional rules on a Prudential regulation Stable Funding Ratio NSFR are being Certain Basel III standards were implemented a cross-border basis increases regulatory implemented under EU law via the Risk complexity for global financial institutions.
in EU law through the Capital Requirements Reduction Measures package.
The Risk Directive IV CRD IV, which came into For more information, see the Risk Factor Reduction Measures package also requires entitled Regulatory Change agenda and effect in 2014 and included new or enhanced certain credit institutions or investment firms impact on Business Model on page 132. requirements for the quality and quantity established in the EU with a common parent of capital, liquidity and leverage.
Beyond undertaking established outside the EU to The programme of reform of the global the minimum standards required by CRD IV, regulatory framework previously agreed by establish an intermediate parent undertaking, the PRA has expected Barclays Group, in authorised and established in, and subject the G20 Heads of Government in April 2009 common with other major UK banks and has continued to be taken forward throughout to the supervision of, an EU member state.
building societies, to meet a 7% Common 2018.
The G20 continues to monitor emerging Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio at the level of the The BCBSs finalisation of Basel III, noted risks and vulnerabilities in the financial system above, among other things, eliminated consolidated group since 1 January 2016. and has stated that it will take action to model-based approaches for certain categories address them if necessary.
G-SIBs are subject to a number of additional of risk weighted assets RWAs, for example, prudential requirements, including the The FSB has been designated by the G20 operational risk RWAs, CVA volatility and requirement to hold additional loss-absorbing credit risk RWAs for equity exposures, revised as the body responsible for co-ordinating capacity and additional capital buffers above the delivery of the global reform programme the standardised approachs risk weights for the level required by Basel III standards.
a variety of exposure categories, replaced the in relation to the financial services industry.
The level of the G-SIB buffer is set by the FSB It has focused particularly on the risks posed four current approaches for operational risk according to a banks systemic importance including the advanced measurement by systemically important financial institutions.
and can range from 1% to 3.5% of riskIn 2011, the G20 Heads of Government approach with a single standardised weighted assets.
The G-SIB buffer must be measurement approach, established 72.5% adopted FSB proposals to reform the met with common equity.
regulation of global systemically important of standardised approach RWAs for exposure categories as a floor for RWAs calculated financial institutions G-SIFIs, including In November 2018, the FSB published an global systemically important banks G-SIBs, update to its list of G-SIBs, maintaining the under advanced approaches referred to as the output floor, and for G-SIBs introduced such as Barclays Group.
In December 2017, 1.5% G-SIB buffer that applies to Barclays home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 217 Risk review Supervision and regulation a leverage ratio buffer in an amount equal to In June 2018, the FRB finalised rules regarding The UK implemented the BRRD through the Bank Recovery and Resolution Order 2014, 50% of the applicable G-SIB buffer used for single counterparty credit limit SCCL.
RWA purposes meaning, for Barclays Group, The SCCL applies single counterparty which amended the Banking Act 2009 the Banking Act and the Financial Services a leverage ratio buffer of 0.75%.
The majority credit limits to the largest US bank holding of the final Basel III changes are expected to companies BHCs and foreign banks and Markets Act 2000 FSMA, and the Banks and Building Societies Depositor Preference be implemented commencing 1 January 2022, including Barclays Group US operations.
with a five-year phase-in period for the The SCCL creates two separate limits for and Priorities Order 2014, which amended the Insolvency Act 1986 among other output floor.
The new market risk framework, foreign banks, the first on combined US including rules made as a result of the operations CUSO and the second on the insolvency legislation.
fundamental review of the trading book, US intermediate holding company BUSL.
In November 2016, the European Commission is also expected to be implemented from The SCCL requires that no counterparty proposed a package of amendments to the 1 January 2022 with a potential transitional of BUSL can exceed 25% of BUSLs total BRRD, including the introduction of two new period until 1 January 2023, following a regulatory capital plus the balance of its moratorium tools.
Political agreement on recalibration of the requirements agreed in allowance for loan and lease losses not this package was reached in December 2018.
Precise implementation details included in Tier 2 capital.
With respect to On 28 December 2017, an EU directive came will be confirmed once the finalised Basel III the CUSO, the SCCL rule allows foreign into force harmonising the priority ranking requirements are transposed into national banks to comply with the rule by certifying of unsecured debt instruments under national and EU law in the jurisdictions where Barclays to the Federal Reserve that they comply insolvency laws.
All member states were Group operates.
with comparable home country regulation.
required to transpose the directive by Stress testing 29 December 2018 and it has been transposed IFRS 9 an accounting standard that covers accounting for financial instruments came Barclays Group and certain of its members are into national law in the UK under the Banks subject to supervisory stress testing exercises and Building Societies Priorities on into force under EU law on 1 January 2018.
A separate EU regulation has provided in a number of jurisdictions.
These exercises Insolvency Order 2018. currently include the annual stress testing transitional arrangements for mitigating the Under the Banking Act, UK resolution impact of the introduction of IFRS 9, largely programmes of the BoE and the FRB and the authorities are empowered to intervene biennial stress testing programme of the EBA.
in relation to CET1 capital arising from the in and resolve a UK financial institution that expected credit loss accounting measures These exercises are designed to assess the is no longer viable.
Pursuant to these laws, resilience of banks to adverse economic or set out in IFRS 9.
The BCBS is continuing to the BoE in consultation with the PRA and assess whether permanent changes to the financial developments and ensure that they HM Treasury as appropriate has several have robust, forward-looking capital planning recognition of expected credit loss provisions stabilisation options where a banking in regulatory capital are necessary, as well processes that account for the risks associated institution is failing or likely to fail: i transfer with their business profile.
Assessment as any corresponding changes to the some or all of the securities or business of the risk-weighting framework.
by regulators is on both a quantitative bank to a commercial purchaser: ii transfer and qualitative basis, the latter focusing on In the US, BUSL and Barclays Bank PLCs US some or all of the property, rights and liabilities Barclays Groups data provision, stress testing of the bank to a bridge bank wholly owned branches are subject to enhanced prudential capability including model risk management supervision requirements as required by the by the BoE or to a commercial purchaser: and internal management processes and iii transfer the impaired or problem assets to DFA and described above in Supervision in controls.
Failure to meet requirements of the US.
an asset management vehicle to allow them regulatory stress tests, or the failure by to be managed over time: iv cancel or reduce regulators to approve the stress test results In addition to prudential regulations already certain liabilities of the institution or convert promulgated under the DFA, the FRB has and capital plans of Barclays Group or its liabilities to equity to absorb losses and members subject to these exercises, could issued proposed regulations for NSFR recapitalise the institution: and v transfer implementation.
The NSFR, as originally result in Barclays Group or certain of its the banking institution into temporary public members being required to enhance its capital proposed by the FRB and other US regulatory ownership.
In addition, the BoE may apply for agencies, would have applied to US bank position or limit capital distributions, to any a court insolvency order in order to wind up external holders of its equity or capital or holding companies with more than $250bn or liquidate the institution or to put the in total assets or $10bn or more in on-balance within Barclays Group.
When sheet foreign exposures, including BUSL, In the US, BUSL participates in the FRBs exercising any of its stabilisation powers, the and consolidated depositary institution Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review BoE must generally provide that shareholders subsidiaries of such banking organisations CCAR process.
In June 2018, the FRB issued bear first losses, followed by creditors in with more than $10bn in assets, including its first public CCAR assessment of BUSL.
accordance with the priority of their claims Barclays Bank Delaware.
Under the proposed The 2018 results indicated BUSLs capital under normal insolvency proceedings.
rule, such entities would be required to ratios would remain above all regulatory maintain a minimum level of available stable In order to enable the exercise of its minimum required levels and the FRB did stabilisation powers, the BoE may impose funding that equals or exceeds the amount not object to BUSLs capital plan on either of required stable funding over a one-year a temporary stay on the rights of creditors a quantitative or qualitative basis.
to terminate, accelerate or close out contracts, period.
In October 2018, the FRB and other US regulatory agencies released proposals In April 2018, the FRB proposed to amend and in some cases to override events of default or termination rights that might to tailor the applicability of prudential its CCAR process to combine the CCAR requirements, including the proposed NSFR, quantitative assessment and the buffer otherwise be invoked as a result of a resolution action.
In addition, the Banking Act gives the for large domestic US banking organisations.
requirements in the FRBs capital adequacy The FRB has stated that it is working to rules to create a single integrated capital BoE the power to override, vary, or impose conditions or contractual obligations between develop a separate proposal relating to the requirement.
application of prudential requirements to a UK bank, its holding company and its group b Recovery and Resolution undertakings, in order to enable any transferee foreign banks, including Barclays Group.
Stabilisation and resolution framework Although the NSFR proposal provided for or successor bank to operate effectively after An important component of the EU legislative any of the resolution tools have been applied.
an effective date of 1 January 2018, the FRB framework is the 2014 Bank Recovery and has not finalised its NSFR proposal and the There is also power for HM Treasury to amend Resolution Directive BRRD which establishes the law excluding provisions made by or schedule for finalisation is uncertain.
a framework for the recovery and resolution under the Banking Act for the purpose of of EU credit institutions and investment firms.
enabling it to use its powers under this regime 218 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information effectively, potentially with retrospective effect.
intends to assess individual banks prudential supervisory purposes.
As a significant institution, Barclays Bank Ireland The Banking Act powers apply regardless of resolvability: ii a PRA CP which contains any contractual restrictions and compensation proposed requirements for banks to assess PLC now faces the Single Resolution Board SRB as the Eurozone resolution authority.
their preparations for resolution, identifying any risks to implementation and their plans The ECB has required Barclays Bank Ireland The BoEs preferred approach for the PLC to submit a standalone BRRD compliant to address these: and iii proposals for future resolution of Barclays Group is a bail-in public disclosures.
recovery plan on an annual basis.
The SRB has strategy with a single point of entry at the power to require data submissions specific The final policy will apply to Barclays Group Barclays PLC.
Under such a strategy, Barclays to Barclays Bank Ireland PLC under powers PLCs subsidiaries would remain operational when published.
conferred upon it by the BRRD and the Single while Barclays PLCs eligible liabilities would While regulators in many jurisdictions have Resolution Mechanism Regulation SRMR.
be written down or converted to equity in The SRB will exercise these powers to indicated a preference for single point of entry order to recapitalise Barclays Group and allow resolution, additional resolution or bankruptcy determine the optimal resolution strategy for the continued provision of services and for Barclays Bank Ireland PLC in the context provisions may apply to certain of Barclays operations throughout the resolution.
Bank PLCs subsidiaries or branches.
In the US, of the BoEs preferred resolution strategy of single point of entry with bail-in at Barclays In July 2016, the PRA issued final rules on Title II of the DFA established the Orderly ensuring operational continuity in resolution.
Liquidation Authority, a regime for the orderly PLC.
The SRB also has the power under the BRRD and the SRMR to develop a resolution The rules apply from 1 January 2019 and liquidation of systemically important financial require banks to ensure that their operational institutions, which could apply to BUSL.
plan for Barclays Bank Ireland PLC.
structures facilitate effective recovery and Specifically, when a systemically important TLAC and MREL resolution planning and the continued financial institution is in default or in danger of The BRRD requires competent authorities provision of functions critical to the economy default, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver to impose a Minimum Requirement for own in a resolution scenario.
under the Orderly Liquidation Authority funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL on instead of the institution being resolved financial institutions to facilitate their orderly In June 2018, the BoE finalised its policy through a voluntary or involuntary proceeding on Minimum Requirement for own funds resolution without broader financial disruption under the US Bankruptcy Code.
In certain or recourse to public funds.
In November 2015, and Eligible Liabilities MREL for UK banks circumstances, including insolvency, violations and published indicative MREL levels for UK the FSB finalised its proposals to enhance the of law and unsafe business practices, the loss-absorbing capacity of G-SIBs to ensure G-SIBs and D-SIBs, including Barclays Group, licensing authorities of each US branch of to be reached in 2019, 2020 and 2022 that there is sufficient loss-absorbing and Barclays Bank PLC and of Barclays Bank recapitalisation capacity available in resolution see section on TLAC MREL below.
Delaware have the authority to take possession to implement an orderly resolution which Additionally, the BoE finalised its policy of the business and property of the applicable minimises the impact on financial stability, on Valuations in Resolution in June 2018 Barclays Group entity they license or to revoke ensures the continuity of critical functions with an expected compliance timeline or suspend such licence.
Specific resolution and avoids exposing taxpayers to losses.
of 1 January 2021. regimes may apply to certain Barclays Group To this end, the FSB has set a new minimum entities or branches in other jurisdictions in requirement for total loss-absorbing capacity The PRA has made rules that require which Barclays Group does business.
authorised firms to draw up recovery plans TLAC.
As the TLAC standard requires a In the US, Title I of the DFA and the certain amount of those loss-absorbing and resolution packs, as required by the BRRD.
Recovery plans are designed to outline implementing regulations issued by the resources to be committed to subsidiaries FRB and the FDIC require each bank holding or sub-groups that are located in host credible actions that authorised firms could implement in the event of severe stress company with assets of $50bn or more, jurisdictions and deemed material for the including those within Barclays Group, to resolution of the G-SIB as a whole, the FSB in order to restore their business to a stable published guiding principles on internal TLAC and sustainable condition.
prepare and submit a plan for the orderly resolution of subsidiaries and operations in on 6 July 2017.
These provide guidance on The resolution pack contains detailed the size and composition of the internal TLAC the event of future material financial distress information on the group, and its significant or failure.
Barclays Group submitted its US requirement, cooperation and coordination legal entities which will be used to develop between home and host authorities and the Resolution Plan in respect of its US operations resolution strategies for that firm, assess on 1 July 2018.
Barclays Groups next trigger mechanism for internal TLAC.
its current level of resolvability against the submission of the US Resolution Plan in The EU is implementing the TLAC standard strategy, and to inform work on identifying respect of its US operations will be due on barriers to the implementation of operational including internal TLAC via the MREL 1 July 2020. requirement and the relevant amendments resolution plans.
In the UK, recovery and resolution planning RRP work is considered Barclays Groups 2018 US Resolution Plan are contained in the Risk Reduction Measures in respect of its US operations included two package.
Under the BoEs statement of policy part of continuing supervision.
Removal of potential impediments to an orderly resolution strategies.
The first is the global preferred on MREL, the BoE will set MREL for UK G-SIBs resolution strategy, which is the BoEs as necessary to implement the TLAC standard of Barclays Group or one or more of its subsidiaries is considered as part of the BoEs preferred resolution strategy of single point and institution or group-specific MREL of entry with bail-in at Barclays PLC.
The 2018 requirements will depend on the preferred and PRAs supervisory strategy for each firm, and the PRA can require firms to make US Resolution Plan also included a US-specific resolution strategy for that institution or resolution strategy, which would involve a group.
Internal MREL for operating subsidiaries significant changes in order to enhance resolvability.
Barclays Group currently provides  resolution of Barclays will be scaled within a 75-90% range of the Groups US operations with only BUSL entering external requirement that would apply to the PRA with a recovery plan annually and with a resolution pack as requested.
the subsidiary if it were a resolution entity.
The US-specific resolution strategy is intended The starting point for the scalar will be 90% In December 2018, the BoE and PRA released as an additional option in case the global for ring-fenced bank sub-groups.
a package of consultations setting out how preferred resolution strategy is not successful.
they propose to increase transparency and The MREL requirements are being phased in as from 1 January 2019 and will be fully accountability and clarify the responsibilities In Ireland, as a result of the transfer of Barclays on firms with regards to resolution.
The Groups European businesses to Barclays Bank implemented by 1 January 2022, at which time G-SIBs with resolution entities incorporated package comprises three main components: Ireland PLC, that entity has been designated i a BoE Consultation Paper CP which by the ECB as a significant institution coming in the UK, including Barclays Group, will be required to meet an MREL equivalent to the proposes how the BoE, as resolution authority, under the direct supervision of the ECB for home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 219 Risk review Supervision and regulation higher of: i two times the sum of its Pillar 1 Bank Levy and FSCS US regulation places further substantive limits on the activities that may be conducted and Pillar 2A requirements: or ii the higher The BRRD requires EU member states to of two times its leverage ratio or 6.75% of establish a pre-funded resolution financing by banks and holding companies, including foreign banking organisations such as leverage exposures.
However, the PRA plans arrangement with funding equal to 1% of to review the MREL calibration by the end covered deposits by 31 December 2024 to Barclays Group.
The Volcker Rule, which was part of the DFA and which came into of 2020, including assessing the proposal for cover the costs of bank resolutions.
Where Pillar 2A recapitalisation which may drive a the amount of such pre-funding is insufficient, effect in the US in 2015, prohibits banking entities from undertaking certain proprietary different 1 January 2022 MREL requirement the BRRD requires that EU member states than currently proposed.
In June 2018, raise subsequent contributions.
The UK trading activities and limits such entities ability to sponsor or invest in certain private the BoE published indicative MREL levels government raises both pre-funded and for UK G-SIBs, including Barclays Group, subsequent contributions that would be equity funds and hedge funds in each case broadly defined.
As required by the rule, to be reached in 2020 and 2022. required were the pre-funded contributions not to cover costs or other expenses incurred Barclays Group has developed and Barclays Bank Ireland PLC is subject to the implemented an extensive compliance by use of the resolution funds by way of a tax SRBs MREL policy, as issued in January 2019, on the balance sheets of banks known as and monitoring programme addressing in respect of the internal MREL that it will be proprietary trading and covered fund the Bank Levy.
required to issue to Barclays Bank Group.
The activities both inside and outside of the US.
SRBs MREL policy will be revised in the near In addition, the UK has a statutory Proposed amendments to the Volcker Rule compensation fund called the Financial future to reflect the implementation of the were published in the Federal Register in Risk Reduction Measures package in the EU.
Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, July 2018.
The existing Volcker framework which is funded by way of annual levies on The SRBs current calibration of MREL is and implemented processes will remain two times the sum of: i the firms Pillar 1 most financial services firms authorised under unchanged until amendments to the FSMA.
The levies consist of a management requirement: ii its Pillar 2 requirement: and regulations become effective.
We do not iii its combined buffer requirement, minus expenses levy which funds the costs of expect any changes to the Volcker rule running the FSCS and a compensation costs 125 basis points.
The SRBs policy does not to be effective prior to Q4 2019. envisage the application of any scalar in levy which funds the costs incurred by the FSCS in paying compensation.
d Market infrastructure regulation respect of the internal MREL requirement.
In recent years, regulators as well as In October 2016, the BCBS published its Similar requirements, which include powers global-standard setting bodies such final standard on the prudential treatment for competent authorities to adopt resolution as IOSCO have focused on improving of banks investments in TLAC instruments measures, are in force or expected to come transparency and reducing risk in markets, issued by other institutions, confirming that into force imminently in various other particularly risks related to over-the-counter internationally active banks both G-SIBs jurisdictions.
These requirements will affect OTC transactions.
This focus has resulted and non-G-SIBs must deduct their holdings Barclays Group to the extent it has operations in a variety of new regulations across the of TLAC instruments that do not otherwise in a relevant jurisdiction.
G20 countries and beyond that require qualify as regulatory capital from their own c Structural reform or encourage on-venue trading, clearing, Tier 2 capital.
Where the investing bank owns Recent developments in banking law and posting of margin and disclosure of less than 10% of the issuing banks common regulation in the UK have included legislation information related to many derivatives shares, TLAC holdings are to be deducted designed to ring-fence the retail and smaller transactions.
Some of the most significant from Tier 2 capital only to the extent that they developments are described below.
deposit-taking businesses of large banks.
exceed 10% of the investing banks common The Financial Services Banking Reform equity or 5% for non-regulatory capital TLAC The European Market Infrastructure Act 2013 put in place a framework for this Regulation EMIR has introduced holdings.
Below this threshold, holdings ring-fencing and secondary legislation passed would instead be subjected to risk weighting.
requirements designed to improve in 2014 elaborated on the operation and transparency and reduce the risks associated G-SIBs may only apply risk weighting to application of the ring-fence.
Ring-fencing non-regulatory capital TLAC holdings by the with the derivatives market, some of which requires, among other things, the separation are still to be fully implemented.
EMIR requires 5% threshold where those holdings are in the of the retail and smaller deposit-taking trading book and are sold within 30 business that certain entities that enter into derivative business activities of UK banks in the UK contracts: report such transactions: clear days.
The EUs Risk Reduction Measures and branches of UK banks in the European package requires firms to deduct external certain over the counter OTC transactions Economic Area EEA into a legally distinct, where mandated to do so: and implement risk MREL holdings from equivalent MREL capital operationally separate and economically of the firm.
mitigation standards in respect of uncleared independent entity, which is not permitted to OTC trades.
The obligation to clear derivatives In December 2016, the FRB issued final undertake a range of activities.
Ring-fencing only applies to certain counterparties and regulations for TLAC, which apply to BUSL rules have been published by the PRA, further specified types of derivatives.
The FRBs final determining how ring-fenced banks will be the European Commission adopted a TLAC rule, while generally following the FSB permitted to operate.
Further rules published delegated regulation relating to the exchange term sheet, contains a number of provisions by the FCA set out the disclosures that of collateral, one of the risk mitigation that are more restrictive.
For example, the non-ring-fenced banks are required to techniques under EMIR.
Provisions relating FRBs TLAC rule includes provisions that make to prospective account holders of to initial margin have entered into force, require BUSL the Barclays IHC to have: non-ring-fenced banks who are individuals.
subject to a phase-in until 1 September 2020. i a specified outstanding amount of eligible In the EU, following the publishing of the Provisions relating to variation margin have long-term debt: ii a specified outstanding Liikanen Report in October 2012, the European already entered into force.
EMIR has potential amount of TLAC consisting of common and Commission adopted a legislative proposal operational and financial impacts on preferred equity regulatory capital plus eligible for a regulation on structural measures to Barclays Group, including by imposing long-term debt : and iii a specified common improve the resilience of EU banks in January collateral requirements.
In addition, the FRBs TLAC rule 2014.
The reforms included ring-fencing of would prohibit BUSL, for so long as Barclays The European Commission has recently retail activities from risky trading activities and proposed two sets of changes to EMIR, Groups overall resolution plan treats BUSL a ban on proprietary trading for certain banks.
as a non-resolution entity, from issuing TLAC one containing technical changes to EMIR, However, the legislative proposal was formally and another measure which could result in to entities other than Barclays Group and its withdrawn in July 2018 as a result of the non-US subsidiaries.
certain central counterparties CCPs used European Parliament and the Council of by Barclays Group being forced to relocate the EU failing to reach a political agreement.
220 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information to an EU jurisdiction in order to continue recognised the trading venues of each others The CFTC has approved certain comparability determinations that permit substituted clearing for EU members.
The changes jurisdiction to allow market participants proposed may have additional operational to comply with mandatory on-venue trading compliance with non-US regulatory regimes for certain swap regulations related to and financial impacts on Barclays Groups requirements while trading on certain venues derivatives business.
recognised by the other jurisdiction.
business conduct and other requirements, while other determinations remain pending.
The EU Benchmarks Regulation came into CRD IV aims to complement EMIR by applying Substituted compliance is permitted, where higher capital requirements for bilateral, force in June 2016.
Although some provisions applicable, only with respect to transactions have applied since 2016, the majority of uncleared OTC derivative trades.
Lower capital between a non-US swap dealer and a non-US requirements for cleared derivative trades are provisions have applied since 3 January 2018, counterparty.
In addition, the CFTC has issued subject to transitional provisions.
This only available if the CCP through which the proposed rules that would require a non-US trade is cleared is recognised as a qualifying regulation applies to the administration, swap dealer to comply with certain CFTC contribution of data to and use of benchmarks central counterparty QCCP which has been rules in connection with transactions that are authorised or recognised under EMIR.
Financial institutions within the arranged, negotiated or executed from the EU will be prohibited from using benchmarks capital requirements may apply to Barclays US.
It is unclear whether the proposed rules Group following the UKs departure from the unless their administrators are authorised, will be adopted in the form proposed.
Most registered or otherwise recognised in the EU.
EU if UK CCPs are then no longer regarded recently, in October 2017, the CFTC issued as QCCPs and vice versa.
This may impact the ability of Barclays Group an order permitting substituted compliance to use certain benchmarks in the future.
For The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive with EU margin rules for certain uncleared example, EURIBOR will, as currently stands, derivatives.
However, as Barclays Group is and Markets in Financial Instruments no longer be compliant with the Benchmarks Regulation collectively referred to as MiFID II subject to the margin rules of the FRB, it will Regulation on 1 January 2020, and the FCA has not benefit from the CFTCs action unless have largely been applicable since 3 January stated that it does not intend to support LIBOR 2018.
MiFID II affects many of the investment the FRB takes a similar approach.
after the end of 2021. International initiatives markets in which Barclays Group operates, are therefore underway to develop alternative It is unclear whether further changes will the instruments in which it trades and the benchmarks and backstop arrangements.
be made to the CFTCs proposed rules or way it transacts with market counterparties However, adapting processes and systems when they will become effective.
In addition, and other customers.
Changes introduced to transition to these new benchmarks is likely it is uncertain whether, and to what degree, by MiFID II include: the introduction of a to be a very time-consuming and costly task other US regulators, such as the FRB, will take new type of trading venue the organised on an industry-wide basis.
an approach similar to the CFTCs regarding trading facility, capturing non-equity substituted compliance.
trading that falls outside the MiFID I regime: In 2015, the European Commission launched The SEC finalised the rules governing security the strengthening of conduct of business work on establishing a Capital Markets requirements, including in relation to conflicts Union CMU within the EU.
The CMU aims based swap dealer registration in 2015 but clarified that registration timing is contingent of interest: the expansion of the concept of, to increase the availability of non-bank and requirements applicable to, firms which financing in the EU, deepen the EU single upon the finalisation of certain additional rules under Title VII of DFA, several of which are systematically trade against proprietary capital market for financial services and promote systematic internalisers : and increased growth and financial stability.
The CMU work still pending.
In particular, the SEC has stated that registration will be required at the later obligations on firms to secure best execution programme is now being considered in light for their clients.
Additionally, MiFID II of Brexit.
Recent proposals have therefore of the SECs adoption of final rules on capital and margin, or the compliance dates for the mandates a trading obligation for certain included considerably broadened central types of cleared derivatives.
supervisory powers for the European SECs rules on record keeping and reporting, business conduct or employment of statutorily Supervisory Authorities ESAs including in MiFID II strengthens investor protections, relation to outsourcing, and delegation and disqualified persons.
imposes new curbs on high frequency risk transfer by entities authorised in the EU Therefore, there is currently no specific and commodity trading, increases preto entities or branches in third countries timetable for the effectiveness of the and post-trade transparency reporting and and an increased focus by the ESAs on security-based swap dealer registration introduces a new regime for third country ongoing equivalence assessments in the requirement.
However, the SEC has recently non-EU firms.
MiFID II also includes new context of third country regimes in various proposed additional rules, and republished requirements relating to non-discriminatory EU regulations and directives.
prior proposed rules, regarding security-based access to trading venues, CCPs and benchmarks, research unbundling and Certain participants in US swap markets are swap dealers, and has indicated that it may take the actions that will trigger the harmonised supervisory powers and sanctions required to register with the CFTC as swap across the EU.
dealers or major swap participants and or, registration requirement in the near future.
following the compliance date for relevant When security-based swap dealer registration US regulators have imposed similar rules SEC rules, with the SEC as security-based as the EU with respect to the mandatory is required, it is anticipated that Barclays Bank swap dealers or major security-based swap PLC and or one or more of its affiliates will be on-venue trading and clearing of certain participants.
Such registrants are subject to derivatives, and post-trade transparency, required to register in that capacity and thus CFTC, and would be subject to SEC, regulation will be required to comply with the SECs rules as well as in relation to the margining of and oversight.
Entities required to register as OTC derivatives.
These rules swap dealers are subject to business conduct, may impose costs and other requirements US regulators have addressed the applicability record keeping and reporting requirements or restrictions that could impact our business.
of certain of their regulations to cross-border under CFTC rules and will be subject to capital In addition, the SEC has provided some limited transactions, and are continuing to review and margin requirements in connection with guidance regarding certain aspects of the and consider their rules with respect to their transactions with certain US and non-US cross-border applicability of its security-based application on a cross-border basis, including counterparties.
Barclays Bank PLC has swaps rules, including a final rule addressing with respect to their registration requirements provisionally registered with the CFTC as transactions of a non-US person arranged, in relation to non-US swap dealers and a swap dealer and is subject to CFTC rules negotiated, or executed by personnel located security-based swap dealers.
The regulators on business conduct, record keeping and in a US branch or office.
However, it remains may adopt further rules, or provide further reporting.
With respect to margin and capital, unclear as to how or when substituted guidance, regarding the cross-border Barclays Group is subject to the rules of compliance may be available, and which applicability of such rules.
In December 2017, the FRB in connection with its swap of the SECs rules will be eligible.
the CFTC and the European Commission dealer business.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 221
