48 Risk management Effective risk management is fundamental Board tothe achievement of our strategic objectives.
Overall responsibility for corporate strategy, governance, performance, internal controls andrisk management defines the Groups appetite for risk and monitors risks to ensure they are effectively managed, including agreeing actions where necessary Risk management controls are integrated into all levels of our business and across all of our operations.
We continually monitor and manage Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration Safety, Health and Disclosure our exposure to risk and seek toensure that Committee Committee Environment Committee risks are appropriately mitigated in order Committee todeliver our strategy.
Reviewing the Ensuring an Assessing the appropriate Responsibility for Responsible for ensuring effectiveness of internal appropriate balance incentivisation of the the stewardship that the Company controls, including ofskills, knowledge Executive Directors and of safety, health remains compliant with Roles and responsibilities systems to identify, andexperience on Senior Management and environmental the requirements of the assess and monitor risks the Board performance Market Abuse Regulation The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship of our system of risk management and internal control.
It has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks in our business and has established the appropriate level of risk Executive Committee that is acceptable in the pursuit of our strategic objectives Monitoring business and operational performance and changes in key risks facing the business and providing regular reports to the Board and has set appropriate policies to govern this.
The Board, Responsible for ensuring that the risk management policy is implemented and embedded within the business aspart of its regular risk assessment procedures, also takes and appropriate actions are taken to manage risks into account the significance of environmental, social and governance matters to the business of the Group.
Based on the regular and adequate information provided to the Board on such matters, it identified and assessed the significant Operations Risk Committee Treasury Land Committee Health and risks to the Groups short and long term value as well as Committee Operating Safety Operating potential opportunities to enhance value that may arise from Committee Committee an appropriate response to such matters.
It has also set Reviewing operating Consideration of Management of liquidity Reviewing and Reviewing the delegated authority levels to provide the executive framework performance identied risks and and counterparty risk and authorising all proposed effectiveness of health for assessing risks and ensuring that they are escalated to the their mitigation ensuring that treasury land acquisitions and safety policies and appropriate levels of management, including up to the Board policies are implemented to manage land establishing controls and Identication of new where appropriate, for consideration and approval.
and embedded within acquisition risk procedures to manage and emerging risks the business these risks The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its committees and all levels of management from a risk management perspective are summarised on this page: Regional and Divisional Management Responsible for risk identication, management and control within their region or division Site Management Maintaining an effective system of risk management and internal control at their site including construction risks, sub-contractor risks and health and safety Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 49 2018 Risk management process Risk appetite A A detailed risk register is maintained for the Economic environment, including housing demand and mortgage availability M Group.
Risks are reviewed as part of the H High risk management reporting process as well as by Senior Management and the Board which M Medium risk ensures there is a regular bottom up and B Land availability M top down consideration of risks.
The risk register is reviewed on a regular basis by the L L L Low ow r ri is sk k Risk Committee which considers the severity of each risk, the required mitigating actions and business procedures and controls.
C Availability of finance and working capital L The severity of the risk is determined based on a defined scoring system assessing risk impact and likelihood.
D Attracting and retaining high-calibre employees M Risk appetite The risk appetite for the Group is set by the Board.
We have identified operational categories against which both our current E Availability of raw materials, sub-contractors and suppliers L risk profile and our risk tolerance range have been defined.
These risk categories may be dependent on the macroeconomic context and we may adjust our risk appetite accordingly.
In defining our risk appetite, F Government regulation and planning policy M the Board has taken into account the expectations of its shareholders, regulators and other stakeholders.
G L Construction H Joint ventures and consortia M I Safety, health and environmental L L IT J Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 50 Risk management continued Overall assessment The Group is committed to safeguarding the environment in which it operates and The current risk profile is within our assesses climate change risks as set tolerance range, the Group is willing to accept out in our online Climate Change Policy a moderate level of operational risk in order and our annual submission to the Carbon to deliver financial returns.
There may be Disclosure Project.
occasions where these risks could have a Whilst the principal risks for the Group moderate adverse impact on the Group, related to the execution of its business be it financially or operationally, although strategy have not fundamentally changed, the impact can be mitigated through some the likelihood of the risk factors occurring management actions.
Why and how our risks change The risk profiles listed in the table on pages 51 to 55 show the estimated likelihood of each The principal risks identified, either principal risk following our risk mitigation separately or in combination, could review and strategies implemented.
have a material adverse effect on the implementation of the Group strategy, our The principal risks are not listed by order business, financial performance, shareholder of importance and the illustration of the value and returns and reputation.
probability does not consider the relative size of any associated financial or reputational Reputational risk could potentially arise impact of each item.
from a number of sources including external and internal influences relating to the No new principal risks have emerged during housebuilding sector which, when combined the financial year.
The change in risk profile or over a period of time, could create a new included in the table on pages 51 to 55 is principal risk.
The Group actively manages presented following our risk mitigation review the impact of reputational risk by carefully and strategies implemented.
assessing the potential impact of all the principal risks and implementing mitigation actions to minimise those risks.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 51 Principal risks Risk Risk Relevance to our KPIs Mitigation Risk profile Change in risk Likelihood of Impact of Commentary Business description strategy profile from change during change during model link previous year the year the year Changes in the UK and The majority of our customers Gross Board, Executive Committee, Sales rates and European macroeconomic require mortgages to purchase margin, markets have A regional and divisional H environments, including their new home.
Buyer confidence, Operating remained stable over management reviews Economic but not limited to, flat or the availability of mortgages margin, PBT, the last year.
The environment, Quarterly site valuations negative economic growth, and mortgage interest rates ROCE, EPS, economic environment including inflation, interest rates, are affected by the economic TSR, Total continues to be housing Comprehensive sales policies buyer confidence, mortgage environment.
characterised by low demand and and regular review of pricing, availability, Government economic environment, including interest rates and good mortgage local markets and developing backed schemes, the impact of the Brexit vote mortgage availability.
availability good working relationships competitor pricing, falls in and any change or removal of The UK economic house prices or land values.
the Governments Help to Buy with mortgage lenders outlook is positive but scheme, may lead to falling there is medium term Maintenance of an appropriate demand or lower prices achieved uncertainty due to the capital structure and Balance for houses, which in turn would Brexit vote.
Sheet control affect our volume targets and ability to provide profitable growth and lead to impairments of the Groups inventories, goodwill and intangible assets.
The inability to secure Securing more sites that meet Owned and All potential land acquisitions The Groups land sufficient consented land our hurdle rates of margin and controlled bank is in a strong are subject to formal M B and strategic land options site ROCE will enable disciplined land bank position and the Group appraisal and approval by the Land at an appropriate cost volume growth.
years, Land continues to see a Land Committee availability and quality.
approvals, good supply of new Insufficient land would affect Gross Group, regional and land and strategic our ability to achieve our volume margin, land opportunities.
divisional review of targets and ability to provide Operating land currently owned, profitable growth.
margin, PBT, committed and identified ROCE, EPS, against requirements TSR.
Formal relationship management with key land suppliers Review by Land Committee and management on strategic land and sites Land forum and academy training events Increased usage of strategic land Targeted land buying Construction excellence, Innovative sales Industry leading Outstanding design Increase Decrease No change and effective planning innovation and efficiency and marketing customer experience Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 52 Principal risks continued Risk Risk Relevance to our KPIs Mitigation Risk profile Change in risk Likelihood of Impact of Commentary Business description strategy profile from change during change during model link previous year the year the year Unavailability of sufficient Availability of sufficient committed Year end net Committed bank facilities and In August 2017, the borrowing facilities and and surety facilities ensures that cash debt.
Group entered into a private placement notes of L C the inability to refinance the Group can manage changes new fixed rate 200.0m 900.0m with maturity on the Availability of facilities as they fall due, in the economic environment and US private placement.
RCF in 2022 and the private finance and obtain surety bonds, or take advantage of appropriate In December 2017, the working placement notes in 2027 comply with borrowing land buying and operational Group extended its capital covenants.
Furthermore, opportunities to help deliver 700.0m RCF.
Regular forecasts of working there are risks from sustainable shareholder value.
capital and cash requirements The Group has management of working and compliance with Reduced borrowing facilities and 791.3m of net cash capital such as conditional or working capital would affect the banking covenants and net assets of contracts, build costs, joint Groups ability to service liabilities 4,597.7m as at ventures and the cash flows Policy requiring minimum including pension funding.
headroom of 150.0m of drawings against committed facilities Maintenance of an appropriate capital structure and Balance Sheet control The ability to recruit and Development of skilled employees Employee Comprehensive Human There remains ongoing or retain employees with is critical to delivery of the engagement competitiveness for Resources programme D the appropriate skills or Groups strategy of profit and score.
employees in the including apprenticeship H Attracting and sufficient numbers of volume growth through a focus operational business, schemes, a graduate retaining such employees.
on efficiency and the continued however the Group has high-calibre development programme, delivery of attractive cash returns.
implemented a number employees succession planning and of initiatives to improve Failure to attract or retain training academies tailored employee retention employees with the appropriate toeach discipline and engagement.
skills would affect these targets.
Ongoing monitoring of employee turnover and absence statistics and feedback from exit interviews Annual employee engagement survey to measure employee satisfaction Remuneration benchmarking against industry competitors Targeted land buying Construction excellence, Innovative sales Industry leading Outstanding design Increase Decrease No change and effective planning innovation and efficiency and marketing customer experience Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 53 Risk Risk Relevance to our KPIs Mitigation Risk profile Change in risk Likelihood of Impact of Commentary Business description strategy profile from change during change during model link previous year the year the year Shortages or increased Maintaining sufficient material Customer Centralised team procures There continues to costs of materials and and skilled sub-contractor service, be pressure on the the majority of the Groups H E skilled labour, the failure of availability will enable disciplined Gross availability of certain materials from within the Availability of a key supplier or the inability volume growth.
margin, build materials and UK including sub-contractor raw materials, to secure supplies upon Operating skilled labour.
The sub-contractors materials, ensuring consistent Failure to do so may lead to appropriate credit terms.
margin, PBT, impact of the Brexit and suppliers increased costs and delays in quality and costs ROCE, EPS, vote on the ongoing construction which in turn would TSR, Total supply of skilled labour Seek to establish and maintain affect our volume targets and ability completions.
and imported materials long term supplier and subto provide profitable growth.
contractor partnerships with all of our significant supply agreements fixed in advance, usually for 12 months Establishing a key supplier audit programme to assess risks to the reliability of supply continuity Group policies include tendering, the requirement for multiple suppliers for both labour contracts and material supplies and establish contingency plans should any key supplier fail Control around all build and material costs throughout build programmes Changing complex Securing sufficient, appropriate Gross Considerable in-house The planning process regulatory environment planning permissions upon new margin, technical and planning remains highly F M which affects planning, sites will enable the Group to Operating complex.
A number of expertise focused on Government technical requirements deliver disciplined volume growth.
margin, PBT, changes to the National complying with regulations regulation and and the time taken to obtain ROCE, EPS, Planning Policy planning policy and achieving implementable Changes to the regulatory planning approval.
TSR, Total Framework have been environment would affect our ability planning consents that meet completions.
These measures to achieve our volume targets and local requirements seek to simplify and ability to provide profitable growth.
speed up the planning Robust and rigorous design process.
However, standards for the homes and there are a number places we develop of other regulatory changes proposed Policies and technical which may impact how guidance manuals for we design and deliver employees on regulatory our developments, compliance and the standards including differences of business conduct expected in building regulations across England, Consultation with Government Scotland and Wales.
agencies, membership of industry groups to help understand and monitor proposed regulation changes Targeted land buying Construction excellence, Innovative sales Industry leading Outstanding design Increase Decrease No change and effective planning innovation and efficiency and marketing customer experience Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 54 Principal risks continued Risk Risk Relevance to our KPIs Mitigation Risk profile Change in risk Likelihood of Impact of Commentary Business Description Strategy profile from change during change during model link previous year the year the year Failure to identify and We aim to reduce the risks inherent Customer Executive Committee, regional The Groups achieve key construction in the construction process and service, Total construction process and divisional reviews and G M milestones due to factors help address the shortage of skilled completions, and policies have quarterly site valuations Construction including the impact employees and sub-contractors Gross remained unchanged in Continuous review of MMC of adverse weather through the use of MMC which is margin, the last year.
The Group conditions, failure to implemented where appropriate.
Operating and the quality of materials continues to expand the identify cost overruns margin, PBT, use of its new product which are evaluated by Delays in construction, or poor promptly, design and ROCE, EPS, ranges which maintain external and internal technical product quality, could increase construction defects, and Construction our high standards of experts, including the NHBC costs, reduce selling prices exposure to environmental waste design whilst being and sales volumes and result in with additional inspections liabilities.
There are also intensity faster to build, help us litigation and uninsured losses.
during build, to ensure risks associated with and Carbon to reduce build cost compliance with all building climate change and the use intensity and waste and are of new technology in the reduction.
and other regulations more suitable for MMC.
build process, e. g. materials Monitoring and improving related to carbon reduction.
environmental and sustainability impact of construction methods and materials used Maintenance of appropriate insurance cover Detailed build programmes and quality reviews, divisional monthly valuation meetings and sign off Review of use of MMC by Group Design & Technical Large development Securing more joint venture ROCE, Total All potential joint ventures are Our investment in JVs projects, some of which sites that meet our hurdle rates completions.
remains at a similar subject to formal appraisal H M involve joint ventures or enables disciplined volume level to previous years, and approval by the Groups Joint ventures consortia arrangements growth.
By engaging with joint at 234.1m 2017: Land Committee and and consortia and or commercial ventures this assists in reducing 213.1m.
The Group the Board developments, are complex and sharing risks on complex, delivered 899 2017: and capital intensive.
capital intensive, bespoke and 750 completions Once operational, the commercial developments.
from joint ventures in performance of joint ventures the year.
and consortia are subject to Changes in complex developments may negatively impact upon cash regular review flows or returns.
Targeted land buying Construction excellence, Innovative sales Industry leading Outstanding design Increase Decrease No change and effective planning innovation and efficiency and marketing customer experience Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 55 Risk Risk Relevance to our KPIs Mitigation Risk profile Change in risk Likelihood of Impact of Commentary Business Description Strategy profile from change during change during model link previous year the year the year Health and safety or We continue to prioritise and SHE internal Internally resourced health The Group continues environmental breaches focus upon health and safety to audit score.
to focus on Health and safety team I M can result in incidents seek to reduce injury rates and and Safety including Safety, Regular health and safety affecting employees, manage the risks inherent in the ensuring consistent healthand monitoring by our in-house sub-contractors and construction process.
controls are in place environmental site visitors.
team, internal and external to reduce accidents Health and safety or environmental and injuries.
The SHE audits of all operational units breaches could cause potential internal audit score has reputational damage, criminal Continual reinforcement remained in line with prosecution and civil litigation, of Group health and safety the previous year.
delays in construction or and environmental policies increased costs.
and procedures Dedicated SHE Board and Operations Committees which review key performance indicators, improvement plans and reinforce the importance of health, safety and environmental compliance Quarterly performance reviews by divisional management within all operating units Regular Senior Management reviews of developments Independent reviews of our SHE processes Failure of any of the Groups We continue to improve integration Customer Centrally maintained The threat of external IT systems in particular of IT systems to enhance business service, cyber attacks IT systems J M those relating to customer control and drive efficiency.
Gross continues to increase IT Fully-tested disaster information, surveying margin, with a number of high Failures of any of the Groups IT recovery programme and valuation.
The Group Operating profile incidents in the systems could adversely impact the could suffer significant margin, PBT, last year.
Regular reviews to seek to performance of the Group.
financial and reputational ROCE, EPS.
reduce the risk of successful damage due to the loss, cyber attacks theft or corruption of data either inadvertently or via We have implemented a atargeted cyber attack.
series of measures to make our business processes and data management GDPR compliant.
There is an ongoing review and governance approach to assess our risks and implement mitigating actions Group wide policies on passwords and transferring data to third parties Targeted land buying Construction excellence, Innovative sales Industry leading Outstanding design Increase Decrease No change and effective planning innovation and efficiency and marketing customer experience Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 56 Principal risks continued Viability Statement The Group considers it is subject to a number of principal risks as set out in more detail In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the in pages 51 to 55, and its Viability Statement UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the review considers the impact that these risks Directors have assessed the prospects particularly those related to the economic and financial viability of the Group, taking environment and availability of finance and into account both its current position and working capital might have on its ability to circumstances, and the potential impact of meet its targets.
This is undertaken through its principal risks.
The Directors consider the performance of sensitivity testing, using that a three-year period is appropriate for appropriately challenging scenarios which this assessment.
reflect severe but plausible impacts based The Groups objective is for a shorter than on current market conditions and applying sector average land bank reflecting its focus estimates for the impact of these risks to on return on capital and a fast build and sell ensure that the quantified mitigation actions model.
Our target is a regionally balanced available to it are sufficient.
This process land portfolio with a supply of owned land involves consideration of the impact of our of c. 3.5 years and a further 1.0 year of chosen scenarios on key business drivers, controlled land.
Accordingly, we consider including the volume of legal completions itappropriate that our viability review period achieved, average selling prices and build is broadly aligned with the expected longevity costs.
Several scenarios are modelled to of our owned land supply.
ensure that the Board can carefully evaluate the range of plausible outcomes being By using a three-year time frame, the assessed and mitigation factors are based Viability Statement review period is also on those identified and successfully deployed aligned with the Groups bottom up threeduring the previous downturn in 2007-2008 year planning and forecasting cycle, during following the credit crisis.
which a wide range of information relating to present and future business conditions Based on this review, the Directors confirm is considered, including those impacting that they have a reasonable expectation that on expected profitability, cash flows, and the Group will be able to continue in operation funding requirements.
and meet its liabilities over this threeyear period.
The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 56 was approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: David Thomas Chief Executive 4 September 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC
