Accountability for monitoring 42 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Risk management We are committed to effective risk management tosupportdelivery of our strategic objectives.
How we manage risk across BBA Aviation Our risk management process is designed to improve the likelihood BBA Aviations risk appetite and risk mitigation strategy are matters ofdelivering our business objectives, protect the interests of our that are overseen by the Board, with the support of the Audit and Risk shareholders and key stakeholders, and enhance the quality of our Committee, which manages the processes that underpin risk decision making through the awareness of risk-assessed outcomes.
assessment and our systems of internal control.
Italso assists in the safeguarding of our assets, including people, The risk assessment process drives the Internal Audit scope, which finances, property and reputation.
We are committed to conducting isagreed in February each year by the Audit and Risk Committee.
business in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and TheChief Risk Officer and Head of Internal Audit attend Audit and inamanner that is consistent with our values.
RiskCommittee meetings to provide regular updates and discuss anyproposed changes to the plan.
Risk governance structure The Board Audit and Risk Committee Responsible for our system of corporate governance Responsible for reviewing and approving andoverseeing execution of our strategy: risk management theadequacy and effectiveness of our risk and policy: and financial performance.
Executive Management Committee Responsible for setting strategic direction, executing strategic decisions, and implementing an effective corporate risk management system.
Chief Internal Risk Audit Businesses Officer function Responsible for identifying, assessing and managing risks Reports on key Reviews and reports within their business subject to Group risk appetite.
risks and risk on the system of mitigation.
Company risk map risk register and business risk maps Management teams in our businesses and corporate functions review risks through self-assessment methodology and update risk registers.
Risk maps are submitted to the Executive Management Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee bi-annually.
Responsibility for implementing BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 43 The Board has established a framework for assessing risk in the Our employees are accountable for working to established standards context of likelihood and impact in financial and reputational terms.
and for identifying and escalating encountered risks so that they can Each risk within the Group is assessed against this framework and be appropriately managed.
The Group has comprehensive training theBoard reassesses its risk appetite on a bi-annual basis when the programmes to ensure that employees are appropriately trained in Group risk map is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Group policies, standards and internal controls, together with The bi-annual risk assessment process looks forward three years ourvalues and our focus on safety, underpin our approach to risk tocreate BBA Aviations risk profile.
These key Group-level risks are management.
We are committed to being a responsible values-led input into the scenario modelling for the Viability Statement, which business and our leaders are responsible for embedding this into BBA isexplained further on page 49.
Aviations culture, our decision making and how we work.
Risk management process Business objectives Strategic plan development and update Our business objectives are established Our strategy informs the setting of ona five year basis and drive our annual shorter-term goals across the Group objectives.
Bi-annual keyand emerging risk assessment process Monitor Strategic key risk risk status mitigation Ongoing key risk mitigation Board and Executive Management Committee review Execution of the strategic plan Progress is monitored at global and Portfolio and investment decisions are business levels and risks assessed on made based on resource constraints anongoing basis as part of the business and risk reward profiles against our review and risk management processes.
44 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Progress in 2018 We continue to evolve our risk management process to provide Business continuity practical insight into risks the business is facing.
The risk registers We have undertaken business continuity and crisis management havebeen extended to: exercises at two of our major Signature FBO locations Luton, UK andTeterboro, USA and simulated how we would react to a potential Identify risk velocity the speed at which a risk may impact us: data leak to a competitor at Ontic Chatsworth, California.
See page 32 Collect emerging risk five and ten years out, which will be a key for more details of the Signature exercises.
inputto our strategic planning process.
Brexit We have also improved the rigour in our data collection and analysis We hold a fortnightly call with representatives from our businesses tosupport the impact evaluation of our key risks.
This information is andour tax and legal teams.
input to the scenario modelling that underpins the Viability Statement Any risk that we face concerns any changes to the open skies see page 49. arrangement that may impact B&GA travel, and a slow-down in Cyber and data breach risk customs processes that may lead to delays in the cross-border flow We have completed a phase of work on cyber risk including an offuel, materials and engines, both for BBA Aviation, our suppliers assessment of likely business threats, data protection and information andtheir upstream supply chains, and customers shipping engines security controls.
The cyber case study below explains how our toERO for repair and overhaul.
Having considered these risks and in businesses are working together with IT and our corporate functions the context of the Groups flight operations and supply chains being to manage cyber risk.
largely outside Europe, we see only limited potential risk.
A Data Privacy Lead reporting to the Group General Counsel will be appointed in 2019 to address our increasing compliance obligations arising from data privacy regulations in the EU and worldwide.
Cyber security BBA Aviation faces a range of cyber threats targeting the Cyber criminals attempting to steal money through fraud or steal confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and of our information to monetise: data.
A successful cyber attack could have a serious and sustained Targeted or non-targeted ransomware disrupting business impact on the operation of our businesses, our reputation and critical systems: relationship with customers and partners, and our financial Spear phishing attacks against employees email spoofing performance.
We therefore have a cyber security strategy in place seeking unauthorised access to sensitive information.
which emphasises the connections between IT and our operations We have in place a range of mitigating processes and controls and ensures that everyone is working together to identify, prevent toreduce the likelihood and impact of these threats, but it is and remediate threats.
recognised that the threat environment, and regulations around There are four planks to our cyber security strategy: it, constantly evolve and so must our response.
Transparency: Automated and current reporting: informed During 2018 we implemented additional end-user protection, leadership team: including adding Multi-Factor Authentication MFA to our Virtual Culture: Security conscious culture: information security built Private Network VPN system and to Office 365 and disabling intoprocesses: removable media from company machines.
We updated our Zero-trust network: Secured devices, encrypted data and traffic, Security Incident Response Process and our Cyber Security Risk hygiene zones: Process and set up 24-7 security monitoring using dedicated andshared resources.
Risk management: IT partnership with business operations.
We replaced Ontics end-of-life document control system with The strategy and activities associated with it are led by our specialist anew platform that complies with US Export Control regulations Information Security team, supported by our Data Protection and and conducted a table top business continuity management BCM Compliance Committee, which comprises senior representatives exercise at Ontic Chatsworth to test and refine our response to a from our operational and functional teams.
security breach involving Ontic IP.
Finally, across the year, we have During 2018 we conducted a cyber threat analysis in which BBA worked to raise employee awareness of cyber security issues and Aviations key external threats were identified as follows: embed understanding of reporting requirements and the personal Espionage activity, primarily targeting Ontic IP but also businesscontribution they can make to our efforts, which included launching sensitive data across the Group: a new employee Cyber Security Toolkit.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 45 Principal risks We have identified 12 principal risks and uncertainties facing BBA Aviation Change during the year which are considered by the Board to be material to the development, performance, position or future prospects of the Group.
These risks, Increasing Stable mitigations and changes during the year are summarised in the table below.
Declining They are not set out in priority order.
Supply chain disruption has been added tothe list in 2018 and managing key resources across major projects removed.
Link to business model Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation action Control and strategy Structural changes in the global Active monitoring of lead economic Market-leading assets Economy economic environment, or cycle indicators.
Robust and flexible fluctuations that drive down B&GA Strong financial controls to monitor operating models andcommercial flying, andmilitary financialperformance and provide a basis Drive operational expenditure.
efficiency and process Low fixed costs allow cost base to be improvement flexedtomeet demand.
Global terrorist events either in-flight, Airport and internal access security Market-leading assets Terrorist atornear major airports materially processes, vetting of potential staff activity Robust and flexible impactingglobal air travel.
operating models Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed Drive operational to enable corrective action to betaken.
efficiency and process improvement Legislative changes causing material Active participation in all relevant industry Market intelligence Legislative increaseto cost of B&GA flight relative bodies.
changes Robust and flexible toalternatives such as commercial flying, Ongoing monitoring of all US and EMEA operating models roador rail travel.
In 2018, the major political activity which may impact B&GA Drive operational change has been the introduction of activity.
efficiency and process General Data Protection Regulation Internal policies including Data Protection improvement GDPR.
andsupporting training ensure GDPR requirements are understood.
Ongoing competitor activity to replicate Active monitoring of competitor activity.
Barriers to entry Competitor market position of Signature network.
activity Strong financial controls to monitor Market intelligence financialperformance.
Customer and partner relationships Technology Fortify network and expand portfolio Improve customer experience Ability to attract and retain high-quality Succession planning process embedded Market-leading assets People and capable people at senior and withreview at Executive Management Vision, Mission mid-management levels.
Committee and Board level annually.
andValues Remuneration structure designed torewardsuperior performance and promoteretention.
Proactive employee development andkeytalent retention processes.
continued overleaf 46 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Link to business model Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation action Control and strategy Potential liabilities from defects Standard operating procedures with Customer and partner Products inservices andproducts.
routineroot cause analysis of all incidents.
relationships and services Liability insurance.
Impact of a successful cyber attack.
Operation of a specialist Information Technology Cyber Security team.
Drive operational security Continual refreshment of firewalls and efficiency and process endpoint protection, laptop encryption, improvement mobile device management, intrusion protection, password policy, vulnerability andpenetration testing, identity and securityevent management.
Cyber insurance added to insurance programme in 2019.
Intentional or inadvertent nonClear values statement and ethical policies.
Vision, Mission Ethics compliance with company values andValues Semi-annual compliance certification andlegislation, both within BBA Aviation byallsenior management.
Governance and with trading partners.
Rigorous third party vetting processes.
Robust internal control environment and regular review by internal and external audit.
Strong procedural controls and physical Vision, Mission Environment containment when working with fuel andValues orotherhazardous chemicals.
Drive operational Active management of known efficiency and process environmental matters to minimise improvement coststoresolve.
Non-compliance with banking Strong treasury management controls Vision, Mission Banking covenants caused by a tighter concerning liquidity management.
andValues covenants regulatory environment around Rigorous third party vetting processes, Governance sanctions compliance, which is a key which includes compliance with sanctions condition of our banking covenants.
Changes in tax regulation in both Timely compliance with all international Tax theUSA andEMEA could impact taxrequirements.
oureffective tax rate and our cash Continuous monitoring of changes to tax taxliabilities.
legislation, taking advice where appropriate from reputable professional advisers.
Delay in delivery of parts from multiRegular business reviews with major Customer and partner Supply chain tiered supply chains operating across suppliers that address horizontal supply relationships disruption multiple countries chain issues.
Drive operational Mitigate single sources of supply where efficiency and process ableor incorporate supply agreements improvement thatprovide protection against loss andinterruption.
