RISK MANAGEMENT Principal risks and uncertainties The Group faces a diverse range of risks and uncertainties, which could have an adverse effect on its success if not managed.
To address these, the Group has designed and embedded a risk management process to identify and monitor relevant current and potential risks and uncertainties and to develop mitigation plans to reduce the likelihood and or impact of the risks.
The Board takes overall responsibility for overseeing the effectiveness of the risk management process through the Audit and Risk Committee, with a particular focus on determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
The UKs decision to withdraw from the European Union has increased uncertainty in the economy and for all businesses.
BCA has a direct presence and trading relationship in a number of EU countries and the Board believes that Brexit will not significantly impact the Groups ability to conduct business into or out of the EU in the short to medium term.
Cross border transactions between the UK right-hand drive market and the international predominantly left-hand drive market are limited.
The Group is, however, aware of possible changes that may affect the Group including economic and legislative changes in the period immediately following the proposed transition in 2019, impacts on customers businesses and possible changes in the movement and therefore supply of labour.
The Board will continue to monitor the political, legal and macroeconomic developments.
Given the Groups growth plans, we are prepared to accept a certain level of risk in order to remain competitive and to continue operating in ever changing markets.
The Board is clear about the specific risks faced by the businesses and the level of risk that it is prepared to accept in each part of the business.
The Groups approach to risk is reviewed regularly, and over time its approach towards each risk may adapt as markets evolve.
The Group maintains a Group risk register of the significant risks at Group level.
Risk registers specific to business units are maintained by the senior management responsible for those areas and they perform regular risk assessments that consider and assess specific risks relevant to their operations.
Each risk register has been compiled following comprehensive assessment of the business and its competitive environment.
Appropriate responses and controls for all risks have been determined to, where possible eliminate, but more usually mitigate, the impact and likelihood of the risks.
These risks are mapped and calibrated to the Group risk model to inform the Audit and Risk Committee on an operations up basis.
Risk movement Our risk profile remains stable relative to last year, with the following key changes: Economic environment economic growth forecasts for consumer spending in a number of our key markets have been slightly downgraded.
Financial and liquidity the Group refinanced its term debt in the prior year and has continued to see an improvement in its ratio of adjusted EBITDA to net debt.
In the current year the Group has syndicated and extended its Partner Finance facility.
42 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials The principal risks and uncertainties that the Board believes could have the most significant adverse impact on the Groups business are largely unchanged from the prior year and are set out below: Risk movement key: Increase Decrease No change Risk Description Management Actions Change The Group could be impacted by any material adverse Management monitors market conditions on an 1 change in the general economic or geopolitical ongoing basis through the planning and reporting environment in the UK and the rest of Europe.
Consideration is given to scalability, Economic levels in the automotive industry can be affected by adaptability and the provision of a wide range of environment such factors as the availability of consumer credit, the automotive services throughout the vehicle lifecycle to growth of average wages and the level of provide responsiveness and resilience.
unemployment, amongst others, which in turn could impact over time the volume of vehicles handled by the Group.
Due to the relative size of the UK business compared to Europe, the Group is more exposed to changes in the UK economic environment.
The Groups future operating results are dependent, in Extensive strategic planning, due diligence and 2 part, on its success in implementing its strategic initiatives.
integration modelling are conducted to ensure The Groups strategic initiatives are focused on expanding alignment and fit of acquisitions.
Strategic its Vehicle Remarketing operations and platforms, its Vehicle Buying division and its Partner Finance business Acquisition and organic business development are together with expanding the Groups services businesses.
focused on services complementary to the Groups For more detail see Strategy on page 14.
require extensive planning and management attention and therefore entail execution risk.
Investment is made in management capability and sector expertise.
The Groups growth has, in part, been attributable to the acquisition of other businesses, and the Group may continue to expand its business through acquisitions and other business combinations in the future.
Diversification of the Group through adding new business activities brings increased complexity and requires additional management resources and skills in order to execute the Groups strategy of developing a more extensive automotive support services business.
The Groups business is dependent on the flow of The Groups experienced commercial team uses 3 vehicles through its services.
The Groups key performance monitoring tools and key performance customers provide significant volumes.
The loss of a indicators to maintain strong commercial relationships Commercial number of these customers or a significant adverse with its customer base, anticipating and solving issues change in the structure of the marketplace as regards as they arise.
the normal terms of business could have a material negative impact on the Groups future performance.
Management works constantly to develop improved digital and physical services to meet customer needs.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 RISK MANAGEMENT continued Risk Description Management Actions Change The Group incurs significant employment costs and Management monitors market rates for wages and 4 competes with other employers to recruit and retain salaries, reviews employee turnover and through exit employees.
An increase in the wages and salaries interviews collates information on the appropriateness Operational necessary to attract and retain suitable employees of the Groups remuneration structure.
may be necessary in the future.
In addition, future legislative changes could lead to an increase in Management works with real estate advisers to payroll costs.
identify, lease and manage suitable sites.
Availability of suitable land for the storage and Management reviews marketing investment options handling of vehicles is required to meet the Groups on an ongoing basis, and undertakes price growth plans.
negotiations appropriate to the scale of the business to allow the Vehicle Buying division to control cost The Group undertakes significant marketing activities, increases and to achieve good value for marketing in particular for its Vehicle Buying division, and any activities.
material increase in advertising costs could increase the Groups marketing expenses.
Fuel escalation and statutory wage increase clauses are included in customer contracts where possible to The Group incurs significant fuel costs in its logistics protect the business from material changes in fuel operations that may escalate.
If the Group is unable to and employment costs.
pass on future cost increases to its customers, its operating profit margin could be impacted.
The loss of market share to competitors would have an Management works to maintain a strong market 5 adverse impact on volume, impacting the operational position by ensuring very high standards for each of and financial performance of the Group.
the services provided by the Group, offering a wide Competition portfolio of well-situated sites that provide efficient solutions for customers and the ability to store and manage significant volumes of vehicles.
Management also strives to position the Group as a market leader in innovation through technology to maintain a competitive advantage as new remarketing and distribution channels are created and trialled.
The Groups business and financial performance Management has been strengthened in this area with 6 depend on the effective operation of its information the appointment of a Chief Digital Officer, tasked and technology systems.
Any issues with the reliability, with ensuring that the IT systems are fully aligned IT systems availability or cyber security of the Groups systems, with the Groups strategies.
and online service offerings and business information could information impact the Groups reputation, the number of buyers Management employs specialist resources within the security or vendors or necessitate additional costs.
Groups IT function to monitor information security, recommending and adopting improvements as necessary.
Regular disaster recovery testing and business continuity drills are performed.
Despite taking these measures, it is recognised that a cyber security attack on the Group could cause significant disruption and reputational damage.
The Groups intellectual property rights include The Groups intellectual property rights are protected 7 proprietary technology relating to online auction legally, where possible, in every country in which the systems as well as trademarks of the Groups brands, Groups products and services are distributed, Intellectual business knowledge and copyrights.
The Group has deployed or made available.
property and well-established names and brands in many of the brand markets in which it operates.
Any significant damage Management works with appropriate media to ensure to these could have an adverse impact on the Groups the best coverage across the different media platforms.
44 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Risk Description Management Actions Change A significant change in the Groups senior The Remuneration Committee and the Board regularly 8 management could weaken the Groups business and review the senior management remuneration policy its ability to execute its strategy.
The Groups senior and engagement to ensure that both are market Management management has extensive experience in the industry appropriate and motivational.
Given the scale and in which the Group operates and has skills that are success of the business, the Group is confident that it critical to the operation of the Groups businesses and is capable of attracting and retaining management the execution of its strategy.
resources of the highest quality.
The Group reports its results in Sterling but operates in Management monitors the macroeconomic and 9 the UK and continental Europe and is therefore exposed legislative changes in the markets in which it to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Financial and liquidity The Groups strategy involves, amongst other things, Credit provided to customers is monitored closely, growing areas of the business that include providing with additional security taken under a risk based credit facilities to vehicle buyers and buying and approach.
holding vehicles in different countries as inventory, on a short-term basis, prior to resale through the Groups Regular dialogue is held with the Groups banks.
Systems, procedures and controls are regularly The Group relies on its finance providers to provide reviewed to identify, detect and remediate any adequate debt to enable the Group to execute its transactional issues.
The Groups financing is all held at floating interest rates.
The Group operates in multiple taxation regimes which increases the complexity and risk of compliance with certain indirect taxes such as VAT or its equivalent.
The Groups operations are subject to compliance with Management continues to ensure that the central 10 extensive laws and regulations, both in the UK and legal function plays a key role within the Group and across continental Europe, including laws relating to retains external specialist legal advisers as necessary Regulation vehicle brokerages and auctions, data protection, to support the businesses in the countries in which and competition, consumer protection, health and safety, they operate.
legislation money laundering, bribery and taxation.
Noncompliance with, or a change in, these laws and Health and safety experts are employed to provide regulations could have an adverse effect on the advice on best practice and to ensure this is acted upon.
reputation and performance of the Group.
Management has prepared for the introduction of GDPR in May 2018 by issuing new policies and setting up a team to ensure that the Group was compliant by the deadline.
A Data Protection Officer has been appointed.
Natural events, such as hailstorms and flooding or Management monitors possible causes of physical 11 other events such as terrorism, large-scale accidents or damage on a site-by-site basis and risks and concerns theft may impact the Groups physical auction facilities are reported to ensure that there is full visibility of any Physical or affect vehicles stored on the Groups property potential issues that might occur.
Where remedial or damage awaiting sale or other activity.
preventative action is recommended, management considers the appropriateness of such actions on a commercial basis.
Insurance cover is in place where required.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45
