com Annual report 2018 Beazley 53 Risk management Creating the environment forsustainable growth Andrew Pryde Chief risk officer the impact of Brexit on them.
As such, capital requirements that were approved 2018 in review Beazley has successfully navigated the by Lloyds as being consistent with their A key design principle of the risk key risks of a potential hard Brexit.
Since objective of improved risk selection and management framework is that all such a hard Brexit is not certain, our market profitability.
members of staff are responsible for preparations have also considered two identifying, managing and communicating other potential outcomes in order to The introduction of IFRS 17 will change risk.
Whilst this activity is supported by ensure that the group is able to operate the way that Beazley measures and the risk management function, all Beazley in every eventuality: namely 1 some form reports the profitability of our insurance staff understand that with the benefits of transitional arrangement or 2 the UK contracts to the market in the future.
of an empowered culture comes the decides not to leave the EU prior to Brexit.
A multi-year programme of work has been responsibility for identifying and managing progressing as planned during 2018 risk.
This is particularly important when In light of political decisions in the US, the to ensure that our data and systems an organisation is navigating above group reviewed its intragroup reinsurance are able to meet the new accounting average levels of change.
arrangements, which resulted in more requirements when they come into force, premium being retained in the US in while continuing to support our internal In 2018, Beazley has successfully Beazley Insurance Company Inc. with management practices.
responded to both external and a corresponding reduction in premium internal change.
in syndicate 3623 at Lloyds of London.
We have included a new section within Two key consequences of this change this risk management report see page 57 External change are that the group is slightly less capital covering the impact of climate change on The main political change that Beazley efficient, as the change has required a Beazley.
A key aspect of Beazleys continued to navigate in 2018 was Brexit, c. $80m increase in the US capital which business model is to support clients although this is not a significant risk as was partially offset by a specific reduction who have been affected by natural only around 4% of Beazleys premium in our Lloyds ECR, and the risk profile of catastrophes, helping them return to originates from the EU.
Despite the syndicate 3623 is more diversified with pre-catastrophe conditions as soon as uncertainty throughout the year, a cross a relatively equal mix of specialty lines possible.
In addition, we explain how functional working group has prepared risks and personal accident risks.
This climate change could affect Beazleys Beazley for the worst case scenario of was an example of an important use of own risk profile, highlighting how we a hard Brexit, which is where the UK our internal model to balance risk and respond to these risks.
These include the leaves the EU without agreements and a capital resources.
These changes performance of our insurance contracts, transitional period.
From an underwriting however did not impact how Beazley the investments we make, the office perspective, the EU risks expiring from manages its operations.
spaces we occupy, the companies we 1 January 2019 have been successfully partner with and our travel footprint.
Generally the renewals have The approach taken to business planning been onto the newly established Lloyds at Lloyds of London during the year Internal change Brussels platform.
However EU renewals attracted extensive press coverage and The Beazley plc board undertook regular within the specialty lines and reinsurance resulted in a number of changes to the reviews of its strategy which culminated divisions have been written on the marketplace.
From a Beazley perspective, in wide ranging discussions at its strategy Beazley Insurance dac platform where the approach taken was closely aligned day in May.
As a result, four new strategic clients have requested it.
From a staff to our own process of cycle management initiatives were identified to support our perspective, we continue to work with the which has been followed for many years.
The first, Beazley Digital, looks at 40 EU nationals 3% of employees who As a result, we were able to present how we can use technology to transact are working in our UK offices to minimise syndicate business plans and associated and process smaller, simpler business.
com Risk management continued The second, Faster, Smarter Underwriting, offices, which provide staff with the space environment.
The impact of each risk is aims to equip underwriters with data and most conducive to the task in hand.
We recorded in the risk register on a 1:10 analytics to better support the underwriting have also provided staff with technology likelihood of that risk manifesting in the of larger, more complex business.
The to be able to work remotely and to work next 12 months.
A risk owner has been third is about getting closer to our clients more flexibly around our core hours, assigned responsibility for each risk, and to better understand how we can support so that Beazley employees can better it is the responsibility of that individual to their risk management either with balance the demands of work and periodically assess the impact of the risk existing insurance products or by personal life.
We now also provide staff and to ensure appropriate risk mitigation designing innovative new products to with flexibility to dress for the day.
These procedures are in place.
External factors tackle a risk that our clients are worrying various changes help ensure that our staff facing the business and the internal about.
Finally, the fourth initiative is how can perform to the best of their ability, controls in place are routinely reassessed we can do more in the London market, and changes made when necessary.
which helps to lower the operational particularly because this is the core part risk inherent in the company.
On an annual basis, the board agrees the Beazleys approach of empowering all risk appetite for each risk event and this There has been a high level of change at is documented in the risk management our employees, coupled with thoughtful board and executive level during 2018 management of risk means that we can framework document.
The residual and this will continue into 2019.
The risk financial impact is managed in a number nimbly respond to and manage change, management function has been working which creates the right environment for of ways, including: with the individuals in new roles to ensure mitigating the impact of the risk delivering sustainable growth.
that they understand their responsibilities through the application of controls: within the risk management framework transferring or sharing risk through The latest chief risk officer report to the and to minimise the risk associated board has confirmed that the control outsourcing and purchasing insurance with such transition periods.
The risk and reinsurance: and environment has not identified any management function is also providing significant failings or weaknesses in key tolerating risk in line with the risk assurance to the board that the group appetite.
processes and that Beazley is operating continues to operate within risk appetite within risk appetite as at 31 December and is supported in this by internal In addition, the following risk management 2018. audit who have completed an audit principles have been adopted: of risk culture.
risk management is a part of the wider Risk management philosophy governance environment: Beazleys risk management philosophy The groups risk profile has altered techniques employed are fit for is to balance the risks the business takes with the exit from the construction and purpose and proportionate to the on with the associated cost of controlling engineering class of business within business: these risks, whilst also operating within the property division and the closing the risk management is a core capability the risk appetite agreed by the board.
In office in Norway, which underwrote part for all employees: addition, our risk management processes of our energy class of business within risk management is embedded in are designed to continuously monitor our the marine division.
Growth continues day-to-day activities: risk profile against risk appetite and to in the US with the $1bn annual managed there is a culture of risk awareness, exploit opportunities as they arise.
premiums milestone being reached during in which risks are identified, assessed 2018.
The chief risk officer completed and managed: Risk management strategy his secondment to the Atlanta office risk management processes are The Beazley plc board has delegated and provided a report to the Beazley plc robust and supported by verifiable executive oversight of the risk board.
This report provided assurance management information: and management department to the that the US operations have coped well risk management information and executive committee, which in turn has with the recent growth and that processes reporting are timely, clear, accurate delegated immediate oversight to the risk and practices have evolved to adapt and appropriately escalated.
The Beazley to the risks and challenges associated plc board has also delegated oversight with operating a larger company.
As such, Risk management framework of the risk management framework to the US operations are well placed to Beazley takes an enterprise-wide the audit and risk committee, and the achieve the planned growth over the approach to managing risk following the primary regulated subsidiary boards next five years.
have each established a risk committee.
The framework establishes our approach Finally, we have introduced a number of to identifying, measuring, mitigating and Clear roles, responsibilities and new working practices across the group monitoring the groups key risks.
Beazley accountabilities are in place for the to provide our staff with the best has adopted the three lines of defence management of risks and controls, and environment and to continue to attract framework: namely business risk all employees are aware of the role they new talent to the group.
This included management, the risk management play in all aspects of the risk management starting to introduce activity based function and the internal audit function.
process, from identifying sources of risk working environments in our larger Within business risk management, there to playing their part in the control Strategic report www.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 55 are two defined roles: risk owner and risk, qualitative commentary from control reporter.
Each risk event is the assurance functions and whether Business risk management Risk management Internal audit owned by the risk owner, who is a senior there have been any events that we can Risk ownership Risk oversight Risk assurance member of staff.
Risk owners, supported learn from risk incidents.
Finally, the Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently tests control design by the risk management team, perform framework is continually evaluated and Assesses risk Are controls operating effectively?
Independently tests control operation a risk assessment twice a year, including where appropriate improved, through Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Reports to committees and board an assessment of heightened and the consideration of stress and scenario Monitors risk Reports to committees and board Records status emerging risks.
testing, themed reviews using risk profiles Remediates when required and an assessment of strategic and The risk management framework emerging risks.
There were no material comprises a number of risk management changes made during 2018. components, which when added together Business risk management Risk management Internal audit describe how risk is managed on a day to A suite of risk management reports are Risk ownership Risk oversight Risk assurance day basis.
The framework includes a risk provided to the boards and committees Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently tests control design register that captures the risk universe to assist senior management and board Assesses risk Are controls operating effectively?
Independently tests control operation 53 risk events grouped into eight risk members to discharge their oversight Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Reports to committees and board categories: insurance, market, credit, and decision making responsibilities.
Monitors risk Reports to committees and board liquidity, operational, regulatory and legal, The risk reports include the risk appetite Records status Remediates when required group and strategic, the risk appetite set statement, the risk management report, by the Beazley plc board, and the control risk profiles, stress and scenario testing, environment that is operated by the reverse stress testing, an emerging business to remain within the risk appetite.
and strategic report, a report to the Business risk management Risk management Internal audit remuneration committee and the Risk ownership Risk oversight Risk assurance In summary, the board identifies risk, Own Risk and Solvency Assessment assesses risk and sets risk appetite.
Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently tests control design The bus A ine sss es ss t eshe risn k implements a control Are controls operating effectively?
Independently tests control operation Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Reports to committees and board environment which describes how the The internal audit function considers Monitors risk Reports to committees and board business should operate to stay within the risk management framework in the Records status risk appetite.
Risk management then development of its audit universe to Remediates when required reports to the board on how well the determine its annual risk-based audit business is operating using a risk plan.
The plan is based on, among other management report.
inputs, the inherent and residual risk scores as captured in the risk register.
For each risk, the risk management Finally, a feedback loop operates, with report brings together a view of how recommendations from the internal audit successfully the business is managing reviews being assessed by the business and the risk management function for inclusion in the risk register as appropriate.
Risk appetite Risk assessment Stress and scenario Risk profiles Strategic and emerging annual biannual framework annual ad hoc risk annual Control assessment Risk register monthly Key risk indicators Control performance Internal model quarterly aggregation monthly Risk incidents Consolidated assurance Committees reporting report 1st line: Underwriting, Investment, Operations, Executive committees 2nd line: Risk and regulatory, Risk committees 3rd line: Audit committees Boards 56 Beazley Annual report 2018 www.
com Risk management continued Insurance risk estimates established by the claims Viability statement Given the nature of Beazleys business, team with a top down statistical view The directors have completed a robust the key risks that impact financial developed by the actuarial team.
A assessment of the viability of the group performance arise from insurance suite of metrics is also used to ensure over a three year period.
The main insurance risks can consistency each year.
future years has been selected to be be summarised in the following categories: short enough to be reasonably assessable Single risk losses: Given the size of Market cycle risk: The risk of but long enough to reflect Beazleys risk policy limits offered on each risk, it is systematic mispricing of the medium profile of a portfolio of diversified shortunlikely that the poor performance of tailed specialty lines business which tailed and medium-tailed insurance one policy will have a material impact could arise due to a change in the liabilities.
This three year period also on the groups financial performance.
US tort environment, changes to the aligns with the length of time over which supply and demand of capital, and business underwritten at Lloyds, being Strategic risk companies using incomplete data to the majority of our insurance business, is Alongside these insurance risks, the make decisions.
This risk would affect managed.
The board has performed an success of the group depends on the multiple classes within the specialty annual risk assessment and the key risks execution of an appropriate strategy.
lines division across a number of to the group in the future are summarised The main strategic risks can be underwriting years.
The group uses on pages 56 to 58. summarised as follows: a range of techniques to mitigate this Strategic decisions: The groups risk including sophisticated pricing The risks and associated capital performance would be affected in the tools, analysis of macro trends, requirements have been brought together event of making strategic decisions analysis of claim frequency and the into a five year plan.
The main assumption that do not add value.
The group expertise of our experienced is that the current market conditions will mitigates this risk through the underwriters and claims managers.
prevail, over which the outcomes of the combination of recommendations boards strategic initiatives are overlaid.
Natural catastrophe risk: The risk of and challenge from non-executive In addition, the board has reviewed the one or more large events caused by directors, debate at the executive sensitivity of key assumptions and has nature affecting a number of policies committee and input from the strategy performed scenario testing to understand and therefore giving rise to multiple and performance group a group of the impact on cash flows of the key risks losses.
Given Beazleys risk profile, approximately 30 senior individuals of a major natural catastrophe and or a such an event could be a hurricane, from across different disciplines systemic mispricing of the medium-tailed major windstorm or earthquake.
This risk is monitored using exposure Environment: There is a risk that the management techniques to ensure chosen strategy cannot be executed The chief risk officer provides a quarterly that the risk and reward are because of the environmental ORSA to the board summarising the short appropriate and that the exposure is conditions within which Beazley term and longer term risks to the group not overly concentrated in one area.
operates, thereby delaying the timing and the capital implications.
Non-natural catastrophe risk: This risk of the strategy.
is similar to natural catastrophe risk The directors have concluded, based Communication: Having the right except that multiple losses arise from on this review, that there is a reasonable strategy and environment is of one event caused by mankind.
Given expectation that the group will be able little value if the strategy is not Beazleys risk profile, examples include to continue in operation and meet its communicated internally so that a coordinated cyber attack, an act of liabilities as they fall due over the three the whole group is heading in the terrorism, an act of war or a political year period of assessment.
same direction, or if key external event.
This risk is monitored using stakeholders are not aware of exposure management techniques to The board has also given specific Beazleys progress against its strategy.
ensure that the risk and reward are consideration to the work of the Brexit appropriate and that the exposure is Senior management performance: team and whether or not Brexit in general not overly concentrated in one area.
There is a risk that senior management and, more specifically, hard Brexit could be overstretched or could fail materially impacts viability and has Reserve risk: Beazley has a consistent to perform, which would have a concluded it does not.
However, there detrimental impact on the groups is a risk that the reserves put aside performance.
The performance of the The risks to financial performance for expected losses turn out to be senior management team is monitored The board monitors and manages risks insufficient.
This could be due to any by the chief executive and talent grouped into eight categories, which of the three drivers of risk described management team and overseen cover the universe of risk that could above.
The group uses a range of by the nomination committee.
There have been no new techniques to mitigate this risk risk areas identified and no major shifts including a detailed reserving process in existing risks.
The board considers the which compares, claim by claim, first two of the following risk categories to be the most significant.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 57 Reputation: Although reputational risk Credit risk: Beazley has credit Such activity has severe reputational, is a consequential risk, i. e. it emerges risk to its reinsurers, brokers and regulatory and legal consequences, upon the occurrence of another risk coverholders of which the reinsurance including fines and penalties.
manifesting, it has the potential to have asset is the largest.
The underwriting Considerations relevant to this risk a significant impact on an organisation.
include the nature, size and type of Beazley expects its staff to act transactions, the jurisdiction in which Regulatory and legal risk: This is honourably by doing the right thing.
transactions occur, and the degree to the risk that Beazley might fail to which agents or third parties are used Flight: There is a risk that Beazley operate in line with the relevant during such transactions.
could be unable to deliver its strategy regulatory framework in the territories due to the loss of key personnel.
Of the eight Every employee and individual acting Beazley has controls in place to risk categories, the board has the on Beazleys behalf is responsible for identify and monitor this risk, for lowest tolerance for this risk.
This risk maintaining our reputation.
We have a example through succession planning.
is monitored by the risk and regulatory zero-tolerance approach to bribery and committee.
corruption and are committed to acting Crisis management: This is the risk caused by the destabilising effect of Liquidity risk: This is the risk that the professionally, fairly and with integrity in all aspects of our business.
In doing so, the group having to deal with a crisis group might not have sufficient liquid and is mitigated by having a detailed funds following a catastrophic event.
we aim to recruit and retain high-calibre employees who carry out their crisis management plan.
The investment committee monitors this risk which, given the nature of the responsibilities honestly, professionally Corporate transaction: There is a risk and with integrity.
We maintain a number asset portfolio, is currently small.
that Beazley could undertake a of policies designed to prevent any risk corporate transaction which did not Group risk: The structure of the of bribery and corruption, which are return the expected value to Beazley group is not complex and so communicated to all employees and shareholders.
This risk is mitigated the main group risk is that one group supplemented with appropriate training.
through the due diligence performed, entity might operate to the detriment the financial structure of transactions of another group entity or entities.
This Climate change risk and the implementation activity.
includes, for example, changes in tax The warming of the global climate is legislation such as the US Tax Cuts and recognised as an important emerging risk Under the environmental risk heading, Jobs Act enacted in late 2017 which due to its widespread potential impact on the board identifies and analyses affects which types of intragroup the global population, environment and emerging and strategic risk on an annual reinsurance it is efficient for Beazley economy.
A key aspect of Beazleys basis for discussion at the board strategy to use.
The Beazley plc board monitors business model is to support our clients day in May.
this risk through the reports it receives who have been affected by natural from each entity.
catastrophes, helping them return to Other risks pre-catastrophe conditions as soon as The remaining six risk categories Anti-bribery and corruption risk possible.
As a specialist insurer, various monitored by the board are: The group also considered anti-bribery classes of business we underwrite are Market asset risk: This is the risk and corruption risk across all risk subject to the effect climate change that the value of investments could categories.
We are committed to ensuring presents to the risk environment.
be adversely impacted by movements in that all business is conducted in an interest rates, exchange rates, default ethical and honest manner, and that As part of the underwriting process, we rates or external market forces.
This we are not involved in any illicit activity work with our insureds to understand the risk is monitored by the investment as defined under the UK Bribery Act and risks facing their organisation, including committee.
US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
This risk applicable climate related risks, to tailor includes the risk of bribery and corruption Operational risk: This risk is the failure insurance coverages to mitigate the we are exposed to and manifests itself of people, processes and systems or associated financial risks.
in the susceptibility to unethical or the impact of an external event on dishonest influences whereby illicit Beazleys operations, and is monitored payments and or inducements are by the operations committee.
An either made or received.
example would be a cyber attack having a detrimental impact on our operations.
com Risk management continued We acknowledge and accept that over change, or for failing to act properly Credit risk: As a result of material time climate change could impact the to respond to the various impacts of natural catastrophe events, there risks facing our insureds and we aim to climate change.
With support from is a risk that our reinsurance manage the resulting risk to Beazley as our group actuarial team, claims teams counterparties are unable to pay described below: and other members of management reinsurance balances due to Beazley.
Pricing risk: This is the risk that current the group establishes financial If the frequency or severity of these pricing levels do not adequately provisions for our ultimate claims events is increased due to climate consider the prospective impact of liabilities.
The group maintains a change this could have a corresponding climate change resulting in systemic consistent approach to reserving to increase on credit risk.
An important underpricing of climate exposed risks.
help mitigate the uncertainty within consideration when placing our The groups business planning process the reserves estimation process.
reinsurance programme is evaluation establishes how much exposure in of our counterparty risk.
Every Asset risk: This is the risk that climate certain classes of business or potential reinsurer is evaluated change has a significant impact across geographic area we wish to accept.
through a detailed benchmarking a number of industries which may We benefit from a feedback loop which considers: financial strength negatively impact the value of between our claims and underwriting ratings, capital metrics, performance investments in those companies.
teams to ensure that emerging metrics as well as other considerations.
The group considers the impact of claims trends and themes can be climate change on its asset portfolio Regulatory and legal risk: Regulators, contemplated in the business planning by seeking to incorporate an investors and other stakeholders process, the rating tools and the assessment of environmental risks in are becoming increasingly interested underwriters risk by risk transactional the investment process.
We subscribe in companies response to climate level considerations.
Our underwriters to the research services of a specialist change.
Failure to appropriately are empowered to think about climate company in the field of environmental, engage with these stakeholders risk during their underwriting process social and governance research and and provide transparent information in order to determine the implication have integrated their proprietary may result in the risk of reputational on each risk.
ratings into the internal credit process damage or increased scrutiny.
The Catastrophe risk: This is the risk that applied to investments in corporate group regularly monitors the regulatory current models do not adequately debt securities.
A minimum standard landscape to ensure that we can capture the impact of climate change for the economic scenario generator adhere to any changes in relevant laws on the frequency, severity or nature of performance is defined and companies and regulations.
This includes making natural catastrophes or other extreme not meeting the required standard will any necessary regulatory or statutory weather events that could drive be excluded from the approved list filings with regard to climate risk.
The analysis also includes Liquidity risk: Linked to the The group utilises commercial a consideration of the sustainability underwriting and credit risks noted catastrophe models to facilitate the of each company with regard to the above, there is a risk that losses estimation of aggregate exposures potential decline in demand in resulting from unprecedented natural based on the groups underwriting specific sectors.
disasters or extreme weather could portfolio.
These catastrophe models External event risk: This is the risk that erode our ability to pay claims and are updated to reflect the latest the physical impact of climate related remain solvent.
The group establishes scientific perspectives.
Catastrophe events has a material impact on our capital at a 1:200 level based on the models are evolving to include new or own people, processes and systems prevailing business plan.
secondary perils which may be related leading to increased operating costs to climate change.
In addition, the Strategic risk: This is the risk that our or the inability to deliver uninterrupted group runs a series of Natural strategy fails to effectively consider client service.
The group has business Catastrophe Realistic Disaster climate change resulting in our continuity plans in place to minimise Scenarios RDSs on a monthly basis business planning not adapting fast the risk of an interrupted client service which monitors the groups exposure enough to respond to changes in wider in the event of a disaster.
to certain scenarios that could occur.
This creates a transition These RDSs include hurricanes in the Commercial management risk: The risk that our underwriting portfolio US, typhoons in Japan, European group aims to minimise where possible might not keep pace with the changes, windstorms and floods in the UK.
the environmental impact of our being heavily exposed to declining business activities and those that industries and failing to capitalise on Reserve risk: This is the risk that arise from the occupation of our office the opportunities.
Our Emerging Risks established reserves are not sufficient spaces.
As we operate in leased office analysis and business planning process to reflect the ultimate impact climate spaces our ability to direct environmental seeks to mitigate this risk through change may have on paid losses.
However, we do horizon scanning for our longer-tail includes liability risk unanticipated choose office space and engage with book, while we are able to be more losses arising from our clients our employees, vendors and customers flexible in responding to events facing litigation if they are held to be in an effort to reduce overall waste and impacting our short tail exposures.
responsible for contributing to climate our environmental footprint.
