Risk Management Our established framework for managing risks has continued Risk management process to be in place across the business throughout this financial A risk register is maintained detailing all of our potential risks, year, with the responsibility to implement the Boards categorised between strategic, operational, financial and policies on risk management and internal control sitting compliance and reputational risks.
The risk management with management.
processes are set up to ensure all aspects of the business are Our risk management objectives continue to be: considered, from strategy through to business execution and including any specialist business areas.
assess risks against an agreed appetite for risk, which is regularly reviewed.
The risk register is reviewed on a regular basis as part of the management reporting process, resulting in the regular improve the balance of risk and return through developing assessment of each risk, its severity and any required and maintaining a proactive, risk aware culture.
The severity of risk is determined ensure there is a consistent approach for the identification, based on a defined scoring system assessing risk impact assessment, control, monitoring, follow up and reporting and likelihood.
A summary of principal risks is reported to management, develop and implement action plans to ensure that risks the Audit Committee and the Board, which is mainly, are mitigated where required, are within our agreed but not exclusively, comprised of risks considered to be risk appetite and that improvements are made to our outside of our risk appetite after mitigation.
This summary is control environment.
reviewed throughout the year, with the Board systematically considering the risks taking into account any changes which ensure the approach to risk management meets the may have occurred.
needs of the business, senior management and all key stakeholders.
Once a year, via the Audit Committee, the Board determines whether the system of risk management is appropriately Risk management roles and responsibilities designed and operating effectively.
In all businesses, the responsibility of managing risk sits More information on risk management and internal controls with every employee.
In undertaking their roles, employees is included within the Audit Committee Report on pages 52 are assisting in identifying, assessing and managing risks.
Specific roles and responsibilities as set out in our risk management framework and corresponding policy are set out in the diagram below: Risk management framework Risk management process The Audit Identify all business Board Committee areas Overall responsibility for risk Oversee risk management management.
Review, challenge and approve Review routine risk reports and utilise the risk management framework risk information to review and approve and corresponding policy, processes assurance plans and priorities.
Evaluate Provide assurance over risk severity Review and agree risk appetite.
of risks Review and challenge Monitor the progress of risk risk reports.
Treat to bring within risk appetite Executive Head Management of Risk Review, challenge and approve the Design and implement the risk Action risk management framework and management framework and mitigate risks corresponding policy and processes.
where needed Review and challenge risk information Facilitate and implement the risk against stated business objectives.
management framework, policy and processes.
Approve risk treatments and actions.
Undertake risk management Approve risk reports for the Board.
Report activities and produce reports in accordance with risk monitor risks and Review and agree report progress management policy.
of mitigation Reports to Direct and monitor Bellway p. l. c. 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
