Principal Risks We have identified the following principal risks to our business: Risk and description Strategic relevance KPIs Mitigation Change in year Land Inability to source Insufficient land would Land bank with DPP.
Budgeting and forecasting of growth suitable land at affect our volume growth targets to ensure land bank supports Number of homes sold.
margins and RoCE Failure to buy land at the Pre-purchase due diligence and viabilities No change.
right margin would have a on all proposed land purchases.
detrimental effect on future EPS.
Authorisation of all land purchases in returns.
accordance with our Authority Matrix.
Planning Delays and complexity Failure to obtain planning EPS.
Group and divisional planning specialists inthe planning process within appropriate in place to assist with securing planning RoCE.
Number of plots acquired a detrimental impact on Management of immediate, mediumThis risk has reduced directly in land bank with our growth prospects and term and strategic land to maintain an slightly during the year an implementable DPP.
have an adverse effect on appropriate balance of land in terms of due to investment in our returns.
Number of plots quantity and location.
converted from mediumterm pipeline to land with DPP.
Number of plots in our pipeline land bank.
Number of plots identified in our strategic land bank with a positive planning status.
Construction resources Shortage of appropriately Failure to secure Number of homes sold.
Systems to select, appoint, monitor, skilled sub-contractors required and appropriate manage and build long-term relationships Customer satisfaction and shortages of resources causes delays with our sub-contractors.
building materials at in construction, impacting Competitive rates and prompt payment for No change.
competitive prices the ability to deliver volume our sub-contractors.
Pricing pressure would Continued review and monitoring of impact returns.
Health and safety There are significant In addition to the moral Number of RIDDOR The Board considers health and safety health and safety obligation and the seven-day reportable issues at every meeting.
risks inherent in the requirement to act in incidents per 100,000 site Regular visits to sites by senior construction process a responsible manner, operatives.
management independent of our No change.
injuries to any individual NHBC health and safety divisions and external consultants to while at one of our benchmark.
monitor health and safety standards and business locations would performance against the health and safety NHBC Health and Safety delay construction and policies and procedures.
could result in criminal prosecution, civil litigation and reputational damage.
Sales and external factors There are a number of The impact of these Number of homes sold.
Ongoing monitoring of key business external factors that external factors would be metrics and development of action plans Forward order book.
could affect our ability to on the ability to sell houses as necessary.
generate sales, including and apartments and on Product range and pricing strategy This risk has increased but not limited to: returns.
Customer satisfaction determined based on regional market slightly during the score.
year due to increased especially house price uncertainty over Brexit EPS.
Use of sales incentives, such as partinflation and interest and the impact on RoCE.
exchange, to encourage the selling rates the economy.
Mortgage availability Use of government-backed schemes to Government housing encourage home ownership.
policy Bellway p. l. c. 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Risk and description Strategic relevance KPIs Mitigation Change in year Sales and external factors Uncertainty over Brexit The uncertainty that Number of homes sold.
While outside of our direct control, we and the future impact currently exists in relation continue to monitor business performance Forward order book.
on the economy could to Brexit and the economy and build a robust future-proof business Reservation rate.
significantly impact our has resulted in splitting out with a solid strategy and sound financial This risk has increased ability to deliver our the risk associated with EPS.
during the year as a strategic objectives Brexit due to the potential result of continued RoCE.
Human resources Inability to attract and Failure to attract and retain Employee turnover.
Continued development of the Group retain appropriate people people with appropriate Human Resources function and Number of graduates and skills will affect our ability implementation of our people strategy.
to perform and deliver our No change.
Competitive salary and improved Number of people who volume growth target.
have worked for the Group for 10 years or Succession plans in place and key person more.
Increased the number of training days per employee.
Introduced a Trainee Assistant Site Manager apprenticeship programme.
Increased the number of graduates and apprentices.
IT and security Failure to have suitable Poor performance of our EPS.
Group-wide systems are in operation systems in place and systems would affect which are centrally controlled with an appropriate back up, operational efficiency, outsourced support function in place.
contingency plans and profitability and our control Continued investment in systems.
There has been security policies environment.
an increase in this Regular review and testing of our security risk during the measures, contingency plans and IT year as a result of security policies.
a complex system Creation of Cyber Security Committee.
Legal and regulatory compliance Failure to comply with Lack of appropriate Volume growth.
Central Company Secretarial, Legal, Health legislation and regulatory procedures and and Safety and Technical functions advise EPS.
requirements compliance would result in and support divisions on compliance and delays in land development regulatory matters.
and construction, have Group-wide policies, procedures and a detrimental impact on training for key regulatory matters.
profitability and reputation and potentially lead to financial penalties and other regulatory consequences.
In addition to the above individual principal risks, we are currently going through a period of change within the business, both in terms of senior management and some significant IT processes.
Change naturally brings risk to the business as systems and processes are developed and evolved and as employees adjust to changing organisational structures.
The risks associated with change have been evaluated and are monitored by management and the Board.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25
