01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 GO GoVERNANCE vernance berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 Go GOvernance VERNANCE Dire ct ors remun e r ation report continueD 20 2011 11 lt lti iP P T The f he follo ollowing subsis wing subsisting options will c ting options will continue t ontinue to oper o opera at te on the t e on the terms and c erms and conditions set out in the 20 onditions set out in the 2011 L 11 LTIP rules, as appr TIP rules, as appro ov ved b ed by y shar shareholders.
Full details of the subsis eholders.
Full details of the subsisting options ar ting options are set out in pr e set out in pre evious y vious years Annual R ears Annual Reports on R eports on Remuner emunera ation.
Options under these arr arrangements do not f angements do not form part of the ongoing R orm part of the ongoing Remuner emunera ation P tion Polic olicy: ho y: how we ev ver pa er payments ma yments may be made in the futur y be made in the future subject t e subject to the o the achie achiev vement of the r ement of the refile elev vant perf ant performanc ormance c e conditions.
O OBJ BJe eC Ctive tive A An nD D link t link tO O S St tRA RAte teG Gy y k key fe ey feA Atu tuR Re eS S mA mAximum ximum OPPOR OPPORtunity tunity Pe PeR Rf fOR ORm mA An nC Ce e CO COn nD Diti itiO On nS S A An nD D ASS ASSe eSS SSment ment e exe xeC Cutive Di utive DiR Re eC Ct tORS ORS T To align Ex o align Executiv ecutive Dir e Direct ectors int ors inter eres ests with those of shar ts with those of shareholders b eholders by y T The 20 he 2011 L 11 LTIP is a t TIP is a ten y en year plan which dir ear plan which directly supports the C ectly supports the Compan ompany ys s No ne No new options will be gr w options will be grant anted under the 20 ed under the 2011 L 11 LTIP t TIP to the curr o the current Ex ent Executiv ecutive Dir e Direct ectors.
On In or In order f der for options t or options to v o ves est, the f t, the follo ollowing le wing lev vels of r els of return eturn f focusing on cr ocusing on crea eating sus ting sustainable superior r tainable superior returns t eturns to shar o shareholders o eholders ov ver a er a c corpor orpora at te s e str tra at tegy egy.. r recruitment, a ne ecruitment, a new Ex w Executiv ecutive Dir e Direct ector will be eligible t or will be eligible to participa o participat te in the 20 e in the 2011 L 11 LTIP subject t TIP subject to o thr through a c ough a combina ombination of dividends and shar tion of dividends and share buy e buy- - t ten y en year period.
a av vailability f ailability for ne or new gr w grants.
backs backs mus must be pr t be pro ovided t vided to shar o shareholders.
T The 20 he 2011 L 11 LTIP aims t TIP aims to mak o make r e returns t eturns to shar o shareholders in cash o eholders in cash ov ver a sus er a sustained tained T The maximum number of shar he maximum number of shares capable of being gr es capable of being grant anted t ed to all participants is 19 o all participants is 19,6, 616,50 16,503 3 period, ensuring tha period, ensuring that the Gr t the Group r oup remains a emains at the right siz t the right size and balanc e and balances es % of % of shar shares.
in inv ves estment and r tment and returns t eturns to shar o shareholders.
D Da ate te Option Option B By y R Return eturn Cumula Cumulativ tive R e Return eturn v ves esting ting Options w Options wer ere gr e grant anted t ed to the curr o the current ent The following individual caps on the value of Options v Options ves est in annual tr t in annual tranches based on cumula anches based on cumulativ tive r e return tar eturn targets.
The he Ex Executiv ecutive Dir e Direct ectors as f ors as follo ollow ws: s: options capable of exercise will operate: Sept Sept P Paid aid P Paid aid 33.
33.0% 0% e ex xer ercise pric cise price of options will be 16.34 per shar e of options will be 16.34 per share les e less an amount equal t s an amount equal to the o the 16 16 v ves est ted ed v value of all dividends paid betw alue of all dividends paid between the da een the dat te of appr e of appro ov val of the 20 al of the 2011 L 11 LTIP and TIP and e ex xecutiv ecutive e n number of umber of executive ltiP Cap Dir Direct ector or shar shares es Director 000s p. a.
30 Sept 30 September 20 ember 2021, pr 21, pro ovided the e vided the ex xer ercise pric cise price cannot be les e cannot be less than z s than zer ero o.. Sept Sept P Paid aid P Paid aid 13.4% 13.4% A A w w Pidgle Pidgley y 5, 5,000 000, 000 000 A w Pidgley 8,000 17 17 v ves est ted ed Individual caps L Individual caps LTIP Caps TIP Caps will limit the amount of an option tha will limit the amount of an option that is capable t is capable R C P R C Perrins errins 5, 5,000 000, 000 000 R C Perrins 5,500 Sept Sept 2 277 77,6, 690 90,9, 956 56 555,381,912 plus 2 f 555,381,912 plus 2 for each or each 13.4% 13.4% of e of ex xer ercise cise.
Any options tha y options that ar t are v e ves est ted but not e ed but not ex xer ercisable due t cisable due to the L o the LTIP TIP R J S R J St tearn earn 9 954,328 54,328 R J Stearn 2,000 18 18 shar share is e issued or r sued or reis eissued in sued in Cap Cap, will be bank, will be banked and be capable of e ed and be capable of ex xer ercise in subsequent y cise in subsequent years subject ears subject the period 1 Oct the period 1 October 20 ober 2016 16 k k w whit hiteman eman 1, 1,000 000, 000 000 k whiteman 2,000 t to the oper o the opera ation of the L tion of the LTIP Cap in those y TIP Cap in those years.
The period o he period ov ver which er which t to the 29 Sept o the 29 September 20 ember 2018 18 bank banked options can bec ed options can become e ome ex xer ercisable has been e cisable has been ext xtended f ended for an additional or an additional S S e ellis llis 2,250 2,250, 000 000 S ellis 3,750 Sept Sept 2 277 77,6, 690 90,9, 956 56 833, 833,0 07 72,868 plus 2 f 2,868 plus 2 for or 13.4% 13.4% tw two y o years 20 ears 2022 and 20 22 and 2023 aft 23 after the end of the original perf er the end of the original performanc ormance period e period J J t tibaldi ibaldi 300 300, 000 000 J tibaldi 1,150 19 19 each shar each share is e issued or sued or 20 2021.
Any bank y banked options which ha ed options which hav five not bec e not become e ome ex xer ercisable b cisable by 20 y 2023 will 23 will P P v vallone allone 300 300, 000 000 P vallone 1,150 r reis eissued in the period 1 sued in the period 1 lapse lapse.. Oct October 20 ober 2016 t 16 to the 29 o the 29 W Wher here the v e the value of options v alue of options ves esting in a period as calcula ting in a period as calculat ted f ed for the purposes of the single or the purposes of the single T The t he total v otal value of all options gr alue of all options grant anted under the 20 ed under the 2011 L 11 LTIP is subject t TIP is subject to a global o a global Sept September 20 ember 2019 19 t total figur otal figure of r e of remuner emunera ation disclosur tion disclosure e is gr is grea eat ter than the L er than the LTIP Cap TIP Cap, the options abo, the options abov five the e the cap a cap at v t ves esting based on the f ting based on the follo ollowing f wing formulae: Number of shar ormulae: Number of shares subject es subject L LTIP Cap will not bec TIP Cap will not become e ome ex xer ercisable a cisable at this v t this ves esting da ting dat te and will be bank e and will be banked.
The f he follo ollowing wing Sept Sept 2 277 77,6, 690 90,9, 956 56 1, 1,110 110, 7 76 63,82 3,824 plus 2 4 plus 2 13.4% 13.4% t to Plan x 3 o Plan x 35 per shar 5 per share e. T. The v he value of an option f alue of an option for the purpose of the cap or the purpose of the cap 20 20 f for each shar or each share is e issued or sued or sets out ho sets out how the L w the LTIP Cap will oper TIP Cap will opera at te: e: is calcula is calculat ted as the gain on v ed as the gain on ves esting mark ting market pric et price of a shar e of a share on v e on ves esting les ting less s r reis eissued in the period 1 sued in the period 1 1.
T The pot he potential gain of the tr ential gain of the tranche of the 20 anche of the 2011 L 11 LTIP options a TIP options at the r t the refile elev vant da ant dat te of v e of ves esting B ting B the e the ex xer ercise pric cise price x number of shar e x number of shares v es ves esting.
The global cap is alloca he global cap is allocat ted ed Oct October 20 ober 2016 t 16 to the 29 o the 29 is limit is limited b ed by the L y the LTIP Cap A as set out in r TIP Cap A as set out in respect of each Ex espect of each Executiv ecutive Dir e Direct ector in the table or in the table pr proportiona oportionat tely t ely to each v o each ves esting.
Any element of unused global cap will r y element of unused global cap will roll oll Sept September 20 ember 2020 20 abo abov five e. In all cases the perf.
In all cases the performanc ormance c e conditions will ha onditions will hav five been sa e been satisfied or the tr tisfied or the tranche will anche will f forw orwar ard t d to the ne o the next v xt ves esting.
Sept Sept 2 277 77,6, 690 90,9, 956 56 1,388,454, 1,388,454,7 780 plus 2 80 plus 2 13.4% 13.4% lapse lapse.. 21 21 f for each shar or each share is e issued or sued or An Any shar y shares ac es acquir quired thr ed through the e ough the ex xer ercise of options under the 20 cise of options under the 2011 L 11 LTIP ar TIP are e r reis eissued in the period 1 sued in the period 1 2.
T This pot his potential gain B a ential gain B at the da t the dat te of v e of ves esting is calcula ting is calculat ted as f ed as follo ollow ws: s: subject t subject to a r o a res estriction tha triction that no mor t no more than 10% of these shar e than 10% of these shares ar es are eligible t e eligible to o Oct October 20 ober 2016 t 16 to the 29 o the 29 be sold each y be sold each year until 30 Sept ear until 30 September 20 ember 2023 a 23 at which point the sale r t which point the sale res estriction triction Number of options capable of v Number of options capable of ves esting x ting x Sept September 20 ember 2021 21 f falls a alls aw wa ay y. T. This limit is cumula his limit is cumulativ tive so if no shar e so if no shares ar es are sold in a y e sold in a year tha ear that t mark market pric et price of a shar e of a share on the da e on the dat te of v e of ves esting e ting ex xer ercise pric cise price e B B Sept Sept n n a a n n a a Bank Banked ed number can be sold in a subsequent y number can be sold in a subsequent year as w ear as well as the shar ell as the shares eligible f es eligible for sale or sale 22 22 balanc balance e 3.
W Wher here B is gr e B is grea eat ter than A the e er than A the ex xc ces ess v s value will be c alue will be con onv vert erted int ed into a number of options o a number of options in r in respect of tha espect of that y t year ear.. t to cap o cap b by dividing it b y dividing it by the gain per shar y the gain per share subject t e subject to each option calcula o each option calculat ted a ed at the da t the dat te of v e of ves esting.
T These options will not bec hese options will not become e ome ex xer ercisable a cisable at this v t this ves esting da ting dat te and will be bank e and will be banked.
Malus applies up t Malus applies up to the da o the dat te of e e of ex xer ercise Cla cise Clawback applies tw wback applies two y o years pos ears post the t the Sept Sept n n a a n n a a Bank Banked ed da dat te of e e of ex xer ercise cise.. 23 23 balanc balance e 4.
T The number of options calcula he number of options calculat ted under 3 equiv ed under 3 equivalent t alent to the e o the ex xc ces ess v s value will be bank alue will be banked and ed and t to cap o cap subject t subject to the f o the follo ollowing t wing terms: erms: Based on shar Based on shares in is es in issue a sue at 20 t 2017 EGM.
These ha hese hav five subsequently e subsequently a. a. T Ther here ar e are no further perf e no further performanc ormance c e conditions t onditions to be sa o be satisfied: tisfied: incr increased due t eased due to shar o shares is es issued and the tar sued and the target has incr get has increased eased b. b. T The hey r y remain subject t emain subject to an emplo o an employment c yment condition until the ondition until they bec y become e ome ex xer ercisable: cisable: ac acc cor ordingly 2 dingly 2 shar share f e for each shar or each share is e issued sued c. c. T The hey will bec y will become e ome ex xer ercisable a cisable at the ne t the next v xt ves esting da ting dat te in part or in full up t e in part or in full up to the v o the value of alue of If the annual r If the annual return pa eturn payment is not made f yment is not made for the or the the L the LTIP Cap f TIP Cap for tha or that financial y t financial year taking int ear taking into ac o acc count options v ount options ves esting in r ting in respect of tha espect of that t r refile elev vant y ant year tha ear that tr t tranche of the option will lapse anche of the option will lapse.
If in a y year ears 20 s 2011 L 11 LTIP tr TIP tranche using the abo anche using the abov five methodology e methodology.
In addition: subsequent y subsequent year the cumula ear the cumulativ tive r e returns paid r eturns paid reach the each the tar target geted le ed lev vel, the tr el, the tranche f anche for tha or that y t year will v ear will ves est: ho t: how we ev ver er, i. i. irr irrespectiv espective of whether the r e of whether the refile elev vant tr ant tranche f anche for tha or that y t year v ear ves ests i. ts i. e e. whether the.
whether the tr tranches wher anches where the annual r e the annual return pa eturn payment w yment was not made as not made perf performanc ormance c e conditions ha onditions hav five been met f e been met for the tr or the tranche anche it does not aff it does not affect the pot ect the potential ential f for the r or the refile elev vant y ant year will r ear will remain lapsed.
e ex xer ercise of options in the bank: and cise of options in the bank: and It should be not It should be noted tha ed that an t any ne y new shar w shares is es issued fr sued from om ii.
this pr this proc oces ess will c s will continue until all bank ontinue until all banked options ha ed options hav five bec e become e ome ex xer ercisable or until 30 cisable or until 30 Sept September 20 ember 2023 a 23 at which point an t which point any bank y banked options tha ed options that ha t hav five not bec e not become e ome ex xer ercisable cisable T Tr reasury or as ne easury or as newly lis wly list ted shar ed shares es incr increase the absolut ease the absolute e le lev vel of cumula el of cumulativ tive r e return r eturn requir equired.
will lapse will lapse.. T The abo he abov five calcula e calculations will be perf tions will be performed a ormed at each v t each ves esting da ting dat te f e for a tr or a tranche under the 20 anche under the 2011 11 L LTIP TIP.
It is theref efor ore pos e possible tha sible that options ma t options may be bank y be banked in a number of y ed in a number of years.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board.
By Order of the Board G BARkeR Chairman, Remuneration Committee 20 June 2018 114 114 115 115 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 GO GoVERNANCE vernance berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 Go GOvernance VERNANCE DIRE CT ORS REPORT execution of their duties to the Company, An Equal Opportunities Policy was operational practitioners work throughout The Directors submit their report together 2017: 140,157,183.
During the year to directors or any entity which is an associated introduced in 2001.
Following periodic the business to ensure sustainability is with the audited consolidated and 30 April 2018 and in accordance with The Directors of the Company and their company as defined in Section 256 of reviews the most recent in September incorporated into daily activities.
company financial statements for the year the authority provided by shareholders profiles are detailed on pages 80 to 85. the Companies Act 2006, or as a result 2010 the policy is now an Equality ended 30 April 2018. at the 2016 and 2017 Annual General P Vernon was appointed as a Director on Greenhouse G as emissions of duties performed by the Directors and Diversity Policy with the aim of Meetings, the Company has purchased 6September 2017 and R Downey, JTibaldi PrinciPal activities and 2018 2017 on behalf of the Company or any such ensuring that all employees, potential 3,957,058 ordinary shares with a nominal and P M Vallone were appointed as review of the business associated company.
employees and other individuals receive value of 197,853 which equated to a 2,553 2,272 Scope 1 tCO e Directors on 8 December 2017.
2 equal treatment including access to 2.82% of the called up share capital of The Company is the UK holding company a substantial shareholders 7,402 9,984 Scope 2 tCO e employment, training and opportunity 2 the Company at the beginning of the The Articles of Association of the Company of a Group engaged in residential-led for promotion regardless of their age, a period, excluding Treasury shares.
The require Directors to submit themselves for 14,326 11,447 property development focusing on The Company has been notified of the Scope 3 tCO e 2 disability, gender reassignment, marriage aggregate consideration paid for these re-election every three years.
In addition, regeneration and mixed-use developments.
following interests, pursuant to Rule 5 of a 24,281 23,703 Total tCO e 2 and civil partnership, pregnancy and shares was 140.4 million.
As at 30 April all Directors are subject to election at the The Company is incorporated and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Emissions intensity maternity, race, religion or belief including 2018 the Company held 6,000,530 shares first opportunity after their appointment domiciled in England and Wales and is Rules DGTR, as at 30 April 2018: 2.15 1.76 tCO e person 2 lack of belief, sex and sexual orientation.
These shares have no voting to the Board.
However, in accordance with quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
number of % of nature of ordinary voting holdings rights.
Authority will be sought from the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 2018 a information has been subject to limited i i All disclosures concerning diversity of the The information that fulfils the shares held rights assurance by  LLP.
For further shareholders at the forthcoming Annual all of the Directors will offer themselves Groups Directors, senior management requirements of the Strategic Report details of the assurance provided in 2018 and prior First Eagle 13,621,578 10.15 Indirect General Meeting to renew the authority for re-election at the forthcoming Annual years, see the independent assurance reports found at and employees as required under the can be found on pages 4 to 77 of the Investment given at the 2017 Annual General Meeting General Meeting.
co. uk sustainability  LLC Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Annual Report which provides more for a further year, permitting the Company studies.
The Directors interests in the share capital and Directors Report Regulations 2013 detailed commentaries on the business BlackRock Inc. 11,698,607 8.72 Indirect to purchase its own shares in the market up of the Company and its subsidiaries are are contained within the Strategic Report The Group has reported on greenhouse performance during the year together to a limit of 10% of its issued share capital.
A W Pidgley, CBE 4,446,995 3.32 Direct shown in the Directors Remuneration on page 41. gas emissions for which it is responsible, as with the outlook for the future.
In particular, i The number of ordinary shares held and percentage Report on pages 94 and 115.
At 30 April required under the Companies Act 2006 information in respect of the principal Movements in the Companys share capital of voting rights is as stated by the shareholder at the The Group has implemented Human 2018 each of the Executive Directors were Strategic Report and Directors Reports financial and operating risks of the are shown in note 17 to the consolidated time of notification.
Rights, Modern Slavery and Child Labour deemed to have a non-beneficial interest Regulations 2013.
The emissions disclosed business is set out on pages 59 to 71 of financial statements.
ii First Eagle Global Fund have notified the Company policies in support of human rights which in 443,062 2017: 424,872 ordinary shares that they hold 6,719,082 ordinary shares which is 5.01% are aligned to the Groups financial the Strategic Report.
Information on the Groups share option is implicit in all of its pre-existing corporate of voting rights.
This holding is included in the indirect held by the Trustees of The Berkeley reporting year, are considered material schemes is set out in note 5 to the interests of 10.15% held by First Eagle Investment policies and procedures.
The Group tradinG results and Group Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
The to its business and have the following Management LLC.
Details believes these policies to be effective in dividends Trustee of the EBT has waived entitlement parameters: of the Long-Term Incentive Schemes promoting and protecting human rights Between 30 April 2018 and 19 June 2018 to dividends until further notice and has The Groups consolidated profit after and Long-Term Incentive Plans for key by establishing clear ethical standards for Scope 1 direct emissions relating to office, the Company has also been notified of the agreed not to vote on any shares held in taxation for the financial year was executives are set out within the Directors ourselves and our expectations for those sales and development site activities: and following interests, pursuant to Rule 5 of the EBT at any general meeting.
Remuneration Report on pages 94 to 115. external parties who work with the Group travel business and other travel where the DGTR: The Groups joint ventures contributed There were no contracts of significance or on our behalf.
expensed in company owned vehicles: number of a profit after taxation of 158.0 million articles of association during, or at the end of, the financial year in ordinary % of voting nature of 2017: 63.8million.
i sustainability Scope 2 indirect emissions from shares held rights holdings which a Director of the Company is, or was, The Articles of Association set out the electricity and heat consumed for office, materially interested, other than those set First Eagle 13,338,990 9.94 Indirect The Group is committed to being a basic management and administrative An interim dividend of 51.76 pence per sales and development site activities: Investment out in note 24 to the consolidated financial responsible and sustainable business structure of the Company.
They regulate share was paid to shareholders on Management statements, the contracts of employment which thinks about the long-term and the internal affairs of the Company and Scope 3 other indirect emissions relating 15 September 2017 and a further interim ii LLC of the Executive Directors, which are creates positive environmental, social and cover such matters as the issue and to office, sales and development site dividend of 56.75 pence per share was paid i The number of ordinary shares held and percentage terminable within one year, and the economic impacts.
These aspects are transfer of shares, Board and shareholder activities: travel business and other travel to shareholders on 23 March 2018.
A further of voting rights held is as stated by the shareholder at appointment terms of the Non-executive considered in the Groups approach to meetings, powers and duties of Directors where expensed in company leased and interim dividend is proposed to be paid the time of notification.
Directors, which are renewable annually managing its operational activities and in and borrowing powers.
In accordance with employee owned vehicles: business air as part of the 139.2 million shareholder ii First Eagle Global Fund have notified the Company and terminable on one months notice.
the homes and places it develops.
the Articles of Association, Directors can travel: transmission and distribution losses return to be provided by 30 September that they hold 6,602,948 ordinary shares which is be appointed or removed by shareholders of purchased electricity and heat: and 2018 through a combination of dividends 4.92% of voting rights.
This holding is included in The Group has an integrated strategy for directors indemnities in a general meeting.
the indirect interests of 9.94% held by First Eagle upstream emissions.
The amount to be the business: Our Vision.
Sustainability is a Investment Management LLC.
The Companys practice has always been paid as a dividend will be announced on key element of the Groups strategy with a The Articles may only be amended Emissions include 50% of those resulting to indemnify its Directors in accordance 16August 2018, taking account of any donations number of commitments directly relating by special resolution at a general meeting from the Groups joint ventures on the basis with the Companys Articles of Association share buy-backs undertaken as part of to material sustainability topics such as of shareholders.
Copies are available of its equity share.
The Group made no political donations and to the maximum extent permitted the Shareholder Returns Programme.
Information on Our Vision by writing to the Company Secretary 2017: nil during the year.
Qualifying third party indemnities, dividend will be paid on 14 September The intensity ratio has been calculated can be found within the Strategic Report and are also open to inspection at under which the Company has agreed 2018 to shareholders on the register on using the number of Berkeley employees emPloyment Policy and on the Groups website.
to indemnify the Directors, were in force 24August 2018. and the number of contractors working The Groups policy of operating through during the financial year and at the date A special resolution to amend the The Directors have ultimate responsibility on our sites.
It is the average figure for Post balance sheet event autonomous subsidiaries has ensured close of approval of the financial statements, in existing Articles will be proposed at the for sustainability within the Group.
The the year and includes 50% of employees consultation with employees on matters accordance with the Companys Articles There are no post balance sheet events Annual General Meeting to be held on Sustainability Leadership Team, which and contractors working in offices or likely to affect their interests.
The Group is of Association and to the maximum extent that require disclosure.
Details of the meets monthly to set strategic direction on development sites of Berkeleys joint firmly committed to the continuation and permitted by law, in respect of all costs, proposed changes can be found in the and review performance, consists of ventures.
share caPital strengthening of communication lines with charges, expenses, losses and liabilities, Notice of Meeting.
the Chief Executive, the Board Director The UK Government Environmental all its employees.
which they may incur in or about the Responsible for Sustainability and the The Company had 140,157,183 ordinary Reporting Guidelines 2013, UK Government Group Sustainability Team.
Dedicated shares in issue at 30 April 2018 116 116 117 117 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 GO GoVERNANCE vernance berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 Go GOvernance VERNANCE DIRE CT ORS REPORT CONTINUED GHG Conversion Factors for Company provide compensation for loss of office or year.
Under that law they are required to due to fraud or error, and have general The Group has significant financial Reporting and International Energy employment resulting from a takeover.
prepare the Group financial statements responsibility for taking such steps as are resources and the Directors have assessed Agency emission factors have been in accordance with International Financial reasonably open to them to safeguard the the future funding requirements of the indeP endent auditors and used to calculate and report the Groups Reporting Standards as adopted by the assets of the Group and to prevent and Group, including the return of 2.2 billion disclosure of information greenhouse gas emissions.
European Union IFRSs as adopted by detect fraud and other irregularities.
to shareholders by September 2021, and to auditors the EU and applicable law and have compared this to the level of committed The Directors confirm that reported Under applicable law and regulations, elected to prepare the parent Company loan facilities and cash resources over the Each of the persons who is a Director at greenhouse gas emissions have been the Directors are also responsible financial statements in accordance with UK medium term.
In making this assessment the date of approval of this Annual Report prepared in accordance with the Groups for preparing a Strategic Report, accounting standards, including FRS 101 consideration has been given to the confirms that: established reporting criteria, are free Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Reduced Disclosure Framework.
uncertainty inherent in future financial so far as the Director is aware, there is no from material misstatement and have Report and Corporate Governance forecasts and where applicable reasonable relevant audit information of which the been presented in a manner that provides Under company law the Directors must not Statement that complies with that law sensitivities have been applied to the key Companys auditors are unaware: and relevant, reliable, comparable and approve the financial statements unless and those regulations.
factors affecting the financial performance understandable information.
they are satisfied that they give a true and the Director has taken all the steps that of the Group.
The Directors are responsible for the fair view of the state of affairs of the Group he she ought to have taken as a Director Note that emissions reported outside of maintenance and integrity of the corporate and parent Company and of their profit or The Directors have a reasonable in order to make himself herself aware this Directors Report are based on the and financial information included on loss for that period.
In preparing each of expectation that the Company has of any relevant audit information and to Groups operational reporting boundary.
Legislation in the Group and parent Company financial adequate resources to continue its establish that the Companys auditors They include 100% joint venture emissions the UK governing the preparation and statements, the Directors are required to: operational existence for the foreseeable are aware of that information.
and exclude emissions from Southall dissemination of financial statements may future and for this reason they continue This confirmation is given and should Waterside.
2017 data has also been revised select suitable accounting policies and differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to adopt the going concern basis of be interpreted in accordance with the based on more accurate data now being then apply them consistently: accounting in preparing the annual directors resPonsibility provisions of Section 418 of the Companies available for energy consumption within make judgements and estimates that financial statements.
Further details on our reporting are reasonable, relevant, reliable and boundaries, our established reporting Each of the Directors, whose names By order of the Board prudent: A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP as criteria and the methodology adopted for and functions are listed on pages 80 to auditors to the Company will be proposed for the Group financial statements, state the overall calculations can be found at 85 confirm that, to the best of each at the Annual General Meeting.
whether they have been prepared in berkeleygroup.
co. uk sustainability reportspersons knowledge: J s P cranney accordance with IFRSs as adopted by and-case-studies.
annual G eneral meetin G Company Secretary the EU: a. the Group financial statements, which The Annual General Meeting of the takeover directive have been prepared in accordance with The Berkeley Group Holdings plc for the parent Company financial Company is to be held at the Woodlands aGreements IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Registered number: 5172586 statements, state whether applicable Park Hotel, Woodlands Lane, Stoke give a true and fair view of the assets, 20 June 2018 UK accounting standards have been Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the DAbernon, Cobham, Surrey KT11 3QB at liabilities, financial position and profit of followed, subject to any material Company is required to disclose whether 11.00am on 5 September 2018.
The Notice the Group: departures disclosed and explained there are any significant agreements that of Meeting, which is contained in a separate in the parent company financial take effect, alter or terminate upon a b. the Strategic Report, together with the letter from the Chairman accompanying statements: change of control.
Directors Report, includes a fair review this report, includes a commentary on the assess the Group and parent Companys of the development and performance business to be transacted at the Annual Change of control provisions are included ability to continue as a going concern, of the business and the position of the General Meeting.
as standard in many types of commercial disclosing, as applicable, matters related Group, together with a description of the agreements, notably bank facility s hare ca P ital structure to going concern: and principal risks and uncertainties that it agreements and joint venture shareholder faces, including those that would threaten The Company is compliant with DGTR use the going concern basis of agreements, for the protection of both its business model, future performance, 7.2.
6. and the information relating to accounting unless they either intend parties.
Such standard terms are included solvency or liquidity: and the Companys share capital structure to liquidate the Group or the parent in Berkeleys bank facility agreement is included in the Directors Report on Company or to cease operations, or have which contains provisions that give the c. the Annual Report, taken as a whole, page 116. no realistic alternative but to do so.
banks certain rights upon a change of is fair, balanced and understandable and control of the Company.
Similarly, in certain The Directors are responsible for keeping provides the information necessary for statement of directors circumstances, a change of control of adequate accounting records that are shareholders to assess the Companys resP onsibilities in resP ect either National Grid or Berkeley may give sufficient to show and explain the parent financial performance and position, of the annual r e P ort and the other joint venture partner the ability to Companys transactions and disclose business model and strategy.
the financial statements sell its interest in the joint venture.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the GoinG concern The Directors are responsible for preparing financial position of the parent Company In addition, the Companys share schemes the Annual Report and the Group and enable them to ensure that its financial The Groups business activities together contain provisions which take effect and parent Company financial statements statements comply with the Companies with the factors likely to affect its future upon change of control.
These do not in accordance with applicable law Act 2006.
They are responsible for development performance and position entitle the participants to a greater and regulations.
such internal control as they determine are set out in the Strategic Report.
The interest in the shares of the Company is necessary to enable the preparation financial position of the Group, its cash Company law requires the Directors to than that created by the initial grant of of financial statements that are free flows, liquidity position and borrowing prepare Group and parent Company the award.
The Company does not have from material misstatement, whether facilities are all described in the Trading and financial statements for each financial any arrangements with any Director that Financial Review on pages 74 to 77.
118 118 119 119 01 STRATEGIC REPORT 02 GOVERNANCE 03 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIALS 3 FINANCIALS Taplow Riverside 120 121 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS iNDEPENDENT a u D i T ors r EP or T T o T h E m E mb E rs of T h E bE rk E l E y Grou P hol D i NG s P l C oN ly OpiniOns and cOnclusiOns arising frOm Our audit The risk Our response 1 Our opinion is unmodified Carrying value of inventories Forecast-based assessment Our procedures included: Overview We have audited the financial statements of The Berkeley Group and profit recognition Control observation: We inspected the minutes, and attended a selection The Group recognises profit on Holdings plc the Group for the year ended 30 April 2018 which Materiality: 35.0m 2017: 30.0m of the Groups build cost review meetings.
This included assessing whether 3,239.9 million: 2017: 3,483.4 each sale by reference to the comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated group financial the appropriate individuals attended the meetings, and assessing that the 3.7% 2017: 3.7% of group profit before tax million overall site margin, which is the Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of statements as a whole forecast costs for developments were discussed and the valuations updated as forecast profit percentage for a Refer to page 91 Audit appropriate.
Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, site that may comprise multiple Committee Report, note 1 on Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Company Balance Sheet, Coverage 93% 2017: 92% of group profit before tax phases and can last a number We inspected whole site forecasts on a sample basis and challenged the inputs page 135 accounting policy of years.
The recognition of and assumptions by: Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes, and note 11 page 144 financial Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 profit is therefore dependent including the accounting policies in Note 1 and C. 1. disclosures.
Tests of detail: Agreed a sample of forecast costs to purchase contracts, on the Groups estimate of supplier agreements or tenders, and agreeing a sample of costs incurred in the Recuring risks Carrying value of inventories future selling prices and build In our opinion: year to invoice and or payment, including checking that they were allocated to and profit recognition costs including an allowance the appropriate site.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of for risk.
Further estimation Revenue recognition Recalculation: Recalculated the costs of sales amount recognised on units the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 April uncertainty and exposure to taken to sale in the current year based upon the unit sales price and gross cyclicality exists within the long 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: margin percentages.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Benchmarking assumptions: Assessed, based on the risks highlighted Forecasts are dependent on accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Carrying value of investments by the Groups build cost review meetings and industry cost indices, the market conditions, which can appropriateness of allowances made for cost increases and longer term adopted by the European Union: be difficult to predict and be development risks as well as contingencies.
influenced by political and the parent Company financial statements have been properly economic factors including, but Our sector experience: Used the teams experience, supported as appropriate prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, not limited to, the uncertainty by the firms property experts to consider the appropriateness of the forecast including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and surrounding the UKs exit from assumptions.
Compared forecast sales prices against recent prices achieved the European Union.
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material in the local market, historical salesprices, and considered factors that may the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with influence the achievable price on future sales.
misstatement Inventory represents the the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards capitalised site costs to date Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional Sensitivity analysis: We evaluated the impact of varying changes in sales prices the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
less amounts expensed on and costs on the forecast margin and considered whether this indicated a risk of judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the sales by reference to the above impairment of the inventory balance and alternative basis of profit recognition in Basis for opinion financial statements and include the most significant assessed forecasts.
It is held at the lower the year.
risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud of cost and net realisable value, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Assessing transparency: We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect the latter also being based on Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our in note 1 to the financial statements regarding the degree of judgement and on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the the forecast for the site.
As estimation involved in arriving at the forecast, resultant profit and carrying value responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit such inappropriate assumptions audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for in these forecasts can impact summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of Our results our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the the assessment of the carrying audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together audit committee.
We considered the carrying value of inventories to be acceptable.
We considered with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, the profit recognised in the year to be acceptable 2017: Acceptable.
We were appointed as auditor by the Directors on 27 November as required for public interest entities, our results from those 2013.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the five procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are Revenue recognition Revenue recognised for units Our procedures included: financial years ended 30 April 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely before legal completion: Control observation: Tested controls over property sales which included: Refer to page 91 Audit responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a Committee Report, note 1 on It is the Groups policy inspecting documentation evidencing internal approval of physical inspection in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently page 135 accounting policy.
to recognise revenue on and confirmation of build complete status and third party certifications.
Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate residential property units when For a sample of sales recorded where the final payment was not yet received, we non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
contracts are exchanged and performed the following: the building work is physically Compliance with Laws and Regulations is no longer considered Site visits: Physically visited sites at the balance sheet date to observe build complete.
However, we continue to perform procedures The legal completion of the over Compliance with Laws and Regulations and report on this in Control observation: Inspected the internal sign-off sheets to check whether sale, being the point at which sales had gone through the Groups approval process for those sites not visited.
Section 7, respective responsibilities, of our audit report.
the balance of the sale is paid for and title transfers, remains Tests of detail: Where sales were not legally completed at year end, we inspected dependent on the receipt of post-year end bank statements for payments from buyers.
The recognition amounts were still outstanding we considered other information, such as of revenue is generally before correspondence with the buyer, in evaluating the recoverability of amounts and legal completion, and as such appropriateness of related revenue recognition.
is potentially more subjective Assessing transparency: We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups than recognising at this latter disclosures in note 1 to the financial statements in respect of the judgements point.
taken in recognising revenue for residential property units prior to legal There is a risk that the unit is completion and the proposed change to the revenue recognition policy on not physically complete or adoption of IFRS 15 to recognise revenue at legal completion.
that the buyer is unable to Our results subsequently complete the We considered the amount of revenue recognised to be acceptable purchase, as in either of these 2017: Acceptable.
cases the revenue should not have been recognised.
122 122 123 123 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS iNDEPENDENT a u D i T ors r EP or T T o T h E m E mb E rs of T h E bE rk E l E y Grou P hol D i NG s P l C oN ly CoNTiNuED 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope profit before taxation Group materiality 35.0m 2017: 30.0m of our audit 934.9m 2017: 812.4m The risk Our response Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set 35.0m Whole financial at 35.0 million 2017: 30.0 million, determined with reference Provisions Subjective estimate Our procedures included: statements materiality to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of 934.9 million 81.8 million: 2017: 99.9 The Group holds provisions in Internal enquiry: We enquired of Group and divisional Directors, and 2017: 30.0m 2017: Group profit before taxation of 812.4 million, of which it million respect of claims and construction inspected board minutes for claims arising.
related liabilities that have arisen, Refer to page 91 Audit Tests of detail: For significant known issues and claims, when a provision has or that prior claims experience Committee Report, note 1 on been made, we inspected the calculation of the provision held and considered 21.9m Range of materiality We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or indicates may arise, in respect at 11 components page 135 accounting policy internal cost assessments and third party evidence, where available.
uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1.75 million of remediation of defects 1.9m to 21.9m and note 15 on page 145 Benchmarking assumptions: For claims that past events indicated may arise, 2017: 1.2m to 24.7m subsequent to the completion 2017: 1.5 million, in addition to other identified misstatements financial disclosures.
we evaluated risk assessments performed in respect of known issues, settled of certain developments, as well that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
issues and considered any differences in the development portfolio over time, as in relation to other matters of such as increasing complexity of construction, in assessing the calculation of Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a litigation including legal disputes.
The identification and estimate whole was set at 31.5 million 2017: 27.0 million, determined of amounts for provisions is Enquiry of lawyers: In respect of open matters of litigation, we held with reference to a benchmark of company total assets of judgemental by its nature and discussions with the Groups legal counsel and reviewed relevant 1,439.0 million 2017: 1,435.3 million, of which it represents profit before taxation 1.75m Misstatements there is a risk that the estimate correspondence to assess the provisions recorded.
reported to the audit committee is incorrect and the provision is Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the Groups disclosures in Group materiality 2017: 1.5m materially misstated.
note 1 and note 15 to the financial statements sufficiently present the potential Of the Groups 18 2017: 18 components, we subjected 11 2017: 11 exposure of provisions and contingent liabilities.
to full scope audits for group purposes and 7 2017: 5 to specified Our results risk-focused procedures, all performed by the group team.
The latter components were not individually financially significant We considered the carrying value of provisions to be acceptable 2017: Acceptable.
enough to require a full scope audit for group purposes but did Group revenue Group profit before tax present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
Carrying value of investments Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: 7 The components within the scope of our work accounted for the Tests of detail: Compared the carrying amount of 100% of investments with 17 1,417.6 million: 2017: 1,413.9 The carrying amount of the percentages illustrated opposite.
the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheet to identify whether their net 9 8 million parent Companys investments assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in in subsidiaries represents 95.4% Refer to note C1 on page 158 There are no residual components in 2018.
For the residual excess of their carrying amount and assessed whether those subsidiaries have 2017: 98.5% of the Companys accounting policy and note components in 2017, we performed analysis at an aggregated historically been profit-making.
Their recoverability C5 on page 160 financial 83% 93% Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no is not a high risk of significant Our results disclosures.
2017 91% 2017 92% significant risks of material misstatements within these.
misstatement or subject to We found the carrying amount of the investment in subsidiaries to be significant judgement.
due to their materiality in the 91 92 context of the parent Company financial statements, this is 83 93 considered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall parent Company audit.
Group total assets 13 12 87% 2017 87% 87 87 Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 Residual components 1 124 24 125 125 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS iNDEPENDENT a u D i T ors r EP or T T o T h E m E mb E rs of T h E bE rk E l E y Grou P hol D i NG s P l C oN ly CoNTiNuED 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern period they have done so and why they considered that period 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial We are required to report to you if: to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they are required to report by exception statement items.
have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you we have anything material to add or draw attention to in In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due if, in our opinion: relation to the Directors statement in notes 1 and C. 1 to the the specific areas of health and safety, anti-bribery, anti-money over the period of their assessment, including any related financial statements on the use of the going concern basis adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent laundering and sanctions checking.
With the exception of any disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing assumptions.
significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that received from branches not visited by us: or standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory the parent Company financial statements and the part of approval of the financial statements: or Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
We considered the effect of any the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page Corporate governance disclosures agreement with the accounting records and returns: or procedures on the related financial statement items.
119 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We are required to report to you if: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our We have nothing to report in these respects.
are not made: or we have identified material inconsistencies between the team and remained alert to any indications on non-compliance 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit we have not received all the information and explanations we throughout the audit.
Annual Report and the Directors statement that they consider that the require for our audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of The Directors are responsible for the other information presented Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, We have nothing to report in these respects.
non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our balanced and understandable and provides the information as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion performance, business model and strategy: or 7.
Respective responsibilities or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the conclusion thereon.
Directors responsibilities Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 119, our responsibilities consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with statements including being satisfied that they give a true and in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Report does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the that work we have not identified material misstatements in the enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from state to the Companys members those matters we are required Listing Rules for our review.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Strategic report and Directors report concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Based solely on our work on the other information described Based solely on our work on the other information: concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, above: they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or or for the opinions we have formed.
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic with respect to the Corporate Governance Report disclosures to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
report and the Directors report: about internal control and risk management systems in relation Auditors responsibilities in our opinion the information given in those reports for the to financial reporting processes and about share capital financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and structures: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether Sean McCallion Senior Statutory Auditor the financial statements as a whole are free from material in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance we have not identified material misstatements therein: and for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see with the Companies Act 2006.
Chartered Accountants the information therein is consistent with the financial below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
15 Canada Square Directors remuneration report statements: and Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not London, E14 5GL guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to in our opinion, the Corporate Governance Report has been 20 June 2018 UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the prepared in accordance with relevant rules of the Disclosure Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and Companies Act 2006.
Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could Authority.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs attention to in relation to: website at www.
the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on Irregularities ability to detect page 60 that they have carried out a robust assessment of We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably the principal risks facing the Group, including those that be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements would threaten its business model, future performance, from our sector experience, through discussion with the Directors solvency and liquidity: and other management as required by auditing standards.
the principal risks disclosures describing these risks and We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and affect the financial statements including financial reporting the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and 126 126 1 127 27 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS C onsolid ated i n C ome C onsolid ated s tatement of s tatement finan C ial po sition 2018 2017 2018 2017 For the year ended 30 April Notes m m As at 30 April Notes m m Revenue 2,703.7 2,723.5 Assets Cost of sales 1,757.6 1,783.7 Non-current assets Gross profit 946.1 939.8 Intangible assets 8 17.2 17.2 Net operating expenses 166.5 183.6 Property, plant and equipment 9 25.9 22.8 operating profit 779.6 756.2 Investments in joint ventures 10 315.0 135.0 Finance income 3 6.6 2.1 Deferred tax assets 16 58.9 59.4 Finance costs 3 9.3 9.7 417.0 234.4 Share of results of joint ventures using the equity method 10 158.0 63.8 Current assets Profit before taxation for the year 2, 4 934.9 812.4 Inventories 11 3,239.9 3,483.4 Income tax expense 6 172.8 167.3 Trade and other receivables 12 132.3 229.5 Profit after taxation for the year 762.1 645.1 Cash and cash equivalents 13, 22 987.3 585.5 4,359.5 4,298.4 total assets 4,776.5 4,532.8 earnings per ordinary share: Basic 7 562.7p 467.8p LiABiLities Diluted 7 550.2p 451.4p Non-current liabilities Borrowings 22 300.0 300.0 Trade and other payables 14 62.6 69.2 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 15 68.0 73.0 430.6 442.2 Current liabilities C onsolid ated s tatement of Trade and other payables 14 1,664.8 1,809.2 Current tax liabilities 47.3 117.6 C omprehensive in C ome Provisions for other liabilities and charges 15 13.8 26.9 1,725.9 1,953.7 total liabilities 2,156.5 2,395.9 total net assets 2,620.0 2,136.9 equity 2018 2017 shareholders equity For the year ended 30 April Notes m m Share capital 17 7.0 7.0 Profit after taxation for the year 762.1 645.1 Share premium 17 49.8 49.8 Other comprehensive expense income: Capital redemption reserve 18 24.5 24.5 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Other reserve 18 961.3 961.3 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset liability 5 0.6 0.6 Retained earnings 18 3,500.0 3,016.9 Deferred tax on remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset liability 6 0.1 0.1 total equity 2,620.0 2,136.9 total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 0.5 0.5 The financial statements on pages 128 to 155 were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 June 2018 and were signed on its behalf by: other comprehensive expense for the year 0.5 0.5 R J steARN total comprehensive income for the year 761.6 644.6 Finance Director 128 128 129 129 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS C onsolid ated s tatement of C onsolid ated C han G es in e QU it Y C as h f lo W s tatement CAPitAL 2018 2017 shARe shARe ReDemPtioN otheR RetAiNeD For the year ended 30 April Notes m m CAPitAL PRemium ReseRve ReseRve eARNiNGs totAL CAsh fLows fRom oPeRAtiNG ACtivities Notes m m m m m m Cash generated from operations 22 957.2 537.0 At 1 May 2017 7.0 49.8 24.5 961.3 3,016.9 2,136.9 Interest received 4.9 1.9 Profit after taxation for the year 762.1 762.1 Interest paid 7.5 2.7 Other comprehensive expense for the year 0.5 0.5 Income tax paid 238.0 115.6 total comprehensive income for the year 761.6 761.6 Net cash flow from operating activities 716.6 420.6 Purchase of ordinary shares 17 140.4 140.4 Transactions with shareholders: CAsh fLows fRom iNvestiNG ACtivities Credit in respect of employee share schemes 5 4.2 4.2 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 9 6.1 2.8 Deferred tax in respect of employee share schemes 6 4.4 4.4 Dividends from investments 10 70.0 Dividends to equity holders of the Company 19 146.7 146.7 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.5 At 30 April 2018 7.0 49.8 24.5 961.3 3,500.0 2,620.0 Movements in loans with joint ventures 10 22.0 8.8 Net cash flow from investing activities 27.7 76.5 CAPitAL shARe shARe ReDemPtioN otheR RetAiNeD CAPitAL PRemium ReseRve ReseRve eARNiNGs totAL CAsh fLows fRom fiNANCiNG ACtivities Notes m m m m m m Proceeds from the issue of shares 0.1 At 1 May 2016 6.9 49.8 24.5 961.3 2,692.9 1,812.8 Purchase of own shares 140.4 64.5 Profit after taxation for the year 645.1 645.1 Increase in borrowings 300.0 Other comprehensive expense for the year 0.5 0.5 Dividends paid to Companys shareholders 19 146.7 254.6 total comprehensive income for the year 644.6 644.6 Net cash flow from financing activities 287.1 19.0 Issue of ordinary shares 17 0.1 0.1 Purchase of ordinary shares 17 64.5 64.5 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 401.8 478.1 Transactions with shareholders: Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the financial year 585.5 107.4 Charge in respect of employee share schemes 5 1.3 1.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 13, 22 987.3 585.5 Deferred tax in respect of employee share schemes 6 0.2 0.2 Dividends to equity holders of the Company 19 254.6 254.6 At 30 April 2017 7.0 49.8 24.5 961.3 3,016.9 2,136.9 130 130 131 131 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS No tes t o the C o N solid ated Fi N a NC ial s tateme N ts 1 accOUnTinG POliciEs with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration substantive rights that are currently exercisable.
The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the acquirer.
The financial statements of General Information subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Losses The Berkeley Group Holdings plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests registered office is Berkeley House, 19 Portsmouth Road, Cobham, Surrey, KT11 1JG.
The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group are engaged in to have a deficit balance.
Further information about the nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Report on page 116.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings by the Group.
Basis of preparation Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
IFRSs, IFRS-IC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and on the going concern basis.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair b Joint ventures value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted investees and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups share The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to of the total comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas joint control ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed on page 135. and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations Standards are applicable to the Group and are mandatory for the first time behalf of an investee.
for the financial year which began on 1 May 2017: Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows - Changes in Liabilities arising from Financing Activities Segmental reporting and Amendment to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses.
These Standards have not had a material impact on the results of the Operating segments are identified in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The Group determines Company for the year ended 30 April 2018. its reportable segments having regard to permitted aggregation criteria with the principal condition being that the operating segments should have similar The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations New Standards have been issued, but are not yet effective for the financial economic characteristics.
year ended 30 April 2018 and have not been adopted early: The Group is predominantly engaged in residential-led, mixed-use property development, comprising residential revenue, revenue from land sales and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and is effective from 1 January 2018.
The Group does not commercial revenue.
presently hold any complex financial instruments.
Accordingly, the principal area of consideration for IFRS 9 is the new provision approach it introduces to bad For the purposes of determining its operating segments, the chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the Executive Committee of the Board.
Given the adoption of a legal competition basis of revenue recognition under IFRS 15 as described below no material bad debt provisions are currently anticipated by the Group, and thus it is expected that the new standard will not have a material impact on the Groups reported results.
This committee approves investment decisions, allocates the Groups resources and reviews the internal reporting in order to assess performance.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts, setting out new revenue recognition criteria The Group has determined that its operating segments are the management teams that report into the Executive Committee of the Board.
These particularly with regard to performance obligations and assessment of when control of goods or services passes to the customer.
The standard is effective management teams are all engaged in residential-led, mixed-use development in the United Kingdom and, having regard to the aggregation criteria in for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 May 2018.
IFRS8, the Group has one reportable operating segment.
Currently, under IAS 18, revenue and profit on the sale of units is recognised when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the Revenue customer.
As set out in the Accounting Estimates and Judgements, this occurs when the unit is physically complete and there is an exchanged contract in Revenue represents the amounts receivable from the sale of properties, and ground rent assets during the year and other income directly associated with place, with the customer able to proceed to legal completion.
Properties are treated as sold and profits are recognised when contracts are exchanged and the building work is physically complete.
Ground rent assets are treated as sold when contracts are exchanged, all material conditions precedent to the sale have been satisfied and the risks and Under IFRS 15, revenue and profit on the sale of units will be recognised at the point control of the unit is passed to the customer which, based on the rewards of ownership have transferred to the purchaser.
See Accounting estimates and judgements on page 135 for further disclosures on revenuerecognition.
indicators in the standard as well as industry practices and interpretations, has been determined as the point of legal completion.
The impact of this change is limited only to those contracts which have not legally completed at the financial year end.
Expenditure Expenditure recorded in inventory is expensed through cost of sales at the time of the related property sale.
The amount of cost related to each property The comparative results to be included in the 2019 financial statements will be re-stated using the full retrospective transition method, under which it is includes its share of the overall site costs including, where relevant, its share of forecast costs to complete.
Net operating expenditure is recognised in expected that: respect of goods and services received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability Net assets of the Group as at 1 May 2017 will reduce by 62 million.
in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
See Accounting estimates and judgements on page 135 for further disclosures on cost recognition.
Profit after tax for the year ended 30 April 2018 will increase by 33 million.
This consists of an increase in revenue of 137 million, an increase in operating profit of 37 million, an increase in profit from joint ventures of 5 million and an increase in tax expense of 9 million.
Taxation Net assets of the Group as at 30 April 2018 will reduce by 29 million.
The taxation expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at the amounts expected to be paid or received using the tax rules and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the reporting date.
IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 Leases and is effective from 1 January 2019.
The new standard requires all assets held by the Group under lease agreements of greater than 12 months in duration to be recognised as assets within the balance sheet, unless they are considered to be of low value.
Deferred taxation is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial Similarly, the present value of future payments to be made under those lease agreements must be recognised as a liability.
It is expected that the statements and corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred implementation of the standard will increase both the assets and liabilities of the Group however the impact on net assets is still being considered and tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable is not expected to be material.
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill, or from the initial recognition except in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, Amendment to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts regarding the implementation of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit, or from differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will and Annual Improvements 2014-2016, all effective from 1 January 2018, are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Annual Improvements 2015-2017, Amendment to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments, Deferred taxation is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and Amendments to IAS 19, Employee Benefits on Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement, all effective from 1 January 2019, are not expected to have and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The carrying value of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which taxable temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred taxation is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to Going Concern reserves, in which case the deferred taxation is also dealt with in reserves.
The Group has significant financial resources and the Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of the Group and compared this to the level of committed loan facilities and cash resources over the medium term.
In making this assessment, consideration has been given to the uncertainty inherent Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when in future financial forecasts and where applicable, reasonable sensitivities have been applied to the key factors affecting the financial performance of the the deferred taxation assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable Group.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
For this reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Intangible assets Basis of consolidation Where the cost of acquiring new and additional interests in subsidiaries, joint ventures and businesses exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, the a Subsidiaries resulting premium on acquisition goodwill is capitalised and its subsequent measurement is based on annual impairment reviews and impairment reviews performed where an impairment indicator exists, with any impairment losses recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is allocated to The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the financial statements of the Parent Company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
The accounting date cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that for subsidiary undertakings is 30 April.
are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement 132 132 133 133 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS No tes t o the C o N solid ated Fi N a NC ial s tateme N ts CoNtiNued 1 accOUnTinG POliciEs cOnTinUEd immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
In accordance with IAS 19 the Group does not recognise on the statement of financial position any surplus in the scheme.
Property, plant and equipment Pension contributions under defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Property, plant and equipment is carried at historic purchase cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets on a b Share-based payments straight line basis to their residual value over their estimated useful lives at the following annual rates: Equity settled Freehold buildings 2% Fixtures and fittings 15% 20% Where the Company operates equity settled, share-based compensation plans, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of Motor vehicles 25% Computer equipment 33 1 3% the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, taking into account only service and non-market conditions.
Freehold property disclosed in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements consists of both freehold land and freehold buildings.
No depreciation is At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to provided on freehold land.
Computer equipment is included within fixtures and fittings.
The assets residual values, carrying values and useful lives are original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Where an impairment is identified, the recoverable amount of the asset is identified and an impairment loss, where appropriate, is recognised in the income statement.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced Cash settled part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of cash settled transactions is recognised as an expense over the vesting period measured by reference to the fair value of the corresponding liability which is recognised on the balance sheet.
The liability is remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date until settlement with changes in fair Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within net operating expenses in value recognised in the income statement.
Dividends Inventories Dividend distributions to shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payout Property in the course of development and completed units are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Direct cost comprises the cost of land, and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
raw materials and development costs but excludes indirect overheads.
Provision is made, where appropriate, to reduce the value of inventories and work in progress to their net realisable value.
Leasing agreements Payments and receipts under operating lease agreements are charged or credited against profit on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Land purchased for development, including land in the course of development, is initially recorded at cost.
Where such land is purchased on deferred settlement terms, and the cost differs from the amount that will subsequently be paid in settling the liability, this difference is charged as a finance cost in Accounting estimates and judgements the income statement over the period to settlement.
Management applies the Groups accounting policies as described above when making critical accounting judgements, of which no individual judgement is deemed to have a significant impact upon the financial statements, apart from those involving estimations, which are detailed below.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for a Carrying value of land and work in progress and estimation of costs to complete impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all The Group holds inventories stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Such inventories include land, work in progress and completed units.
As amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the residential development is largely speculative by nature, not all inventories are covered by forward sales contracts.
Furthermore due to the nature of the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use Groups activity and, in particular the scale of its developments and the length of the development cycle, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within net operating expenses.
When a trade receivable is between units being built and or completed in the current year and those for future years.
It also has to forecast the costs to complete on such developments.
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited In making such assessments and allocations, there is a degree of inherent estimation uncertainty: in particular due to the need to take account of future against net operating expense in the income statement.
direct input costs, sales prices and the need to allocate site-wide costs on an appropriate basis to reflect the overall level of development risk, including Cash and cash equivalents planning risk.
The Group has established internal controls designed to effectively assess and centrally review inventory carrying values and ensure the Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances in hand and at the bank, including bank overdrafts repayable on demand which form part of the appropriateness of the estimates made.
These assessments and allocations evolve over the life of the development in line with the risk profile, and Groups cash management, for which offset arrangements across Group businesses have been applied where appropriate.
accordingly the margin recognised reflects these evolving estimates.
Similarly, these estimates impact the carrying value of inventory at each reporting date as this is a function of costs incurred in the year and the allocation of inventory to costs of sales on each property sold.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
In addition, the Group has consistently applied its approach to margin recognition in relation to the Groups particularly complex, long term regeneration developments where certain whole-site costs are accelerated to the early stages of the development to reflect the greater uncertainty and the evolution of Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
risk over the life of such developments.
These developments, where the development life cycle is typically greater than ten years, are considered to be Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable particularly susceptible to potential downward shifts in profitability due to the cyclical nature of the property market and its impact on both revenue and incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, sold or costs.
As such, the inherent estimation uncertainty is increased.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and A fundamental principle of the Groups accounting policy is to reduce the possibility of recognising margin in the early stages of a development that could the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
As such, for these long term sites with greatest estimation uncertainty, a greater proportion of whole-site costs are recognised during Borrowings the earlier stages of the development up to a point of inflection when such developments are deemed to be sufficiently fide-risked.
Subsequent to this Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the inflection point, and should the uncertainties have not materialised, margin would increase as the visibility over projected revenue and costs across the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Trade and other payables For the year ended 30 April 2018, had the gross margin recognised on these long term sites, in the early stages prior to the point of inflection, differed by Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value which is considered to be their fair value.
Trade 10%, the impact on profit before tax would have been 7.4 million.
As with all judgements involving estimation over a long term horizon, the outcome of payables on extended terms are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
The discount to nominal value is future events may affect the eventual accounting outcome.
amortised over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs.
b Provisions Provisions The Group makes assumptions to determine the timing and its best estimate of the quantum of its construction and other liabilities for which provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of are held.
resources will be required to settle that obligation, and the amount has been reliably estimated.
See Accounting estimates and judgements on page 135 for c Revenue recognition further disclosures on recognition of provisions.
Berkeley recognises revenue and profit on development property sales at the point of physical completion, where there are contracts exchanged and the Deposits customer is able to proceed to legal completion.
This differs from many other housebuilders who recognise revenue and profit on legal completion.
The New property deposits and on account contract receipts are held within current trade and other payables.
Directors believe that Berkeleys basis of accounting is appropriate for the circumstances of its business and that it is in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, but note that its approach results in the recognition of both revenue and profits earlier than the legal Employee benefits completion methodology.
Reaching a view as to whether revenue should be recognised requires judgement.
These judgements are complemented by a Pensions external certifications in assessing whether the properties sold meet the criteria for recognition in respect of physical completion.
The customers ability to The Group accounts for pensions under IAS 19 Employee benefits.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
The defined complete the purchase is also considered at the point of revenue recognition.
benefit plan was closed to future accrual with effect from 1 April 2007.
Berkeleys accounting policy removes absolute reliance on the date of legal completion, which Berkeley believes is a significant contributing factor to many For the defined benefit scheme, the obligations are measured using the projected unit method.
The calculation of the net obligation is performed by a of the customer service issues within the wider industry, without materially altering the financial reporting risk.
Adopting an alternative legal completion qualified actuary.
The operating and financing costs of these plans are recognised separately in the income statement: service costs are set annually on the basis for the current year would be equivalent to the expected IFRS 15 adjustment disclosed in the Basis of Preparation.
basis of actuarial valuations of the scheme and financing costs are recognised in the period in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 134 134 1 135 35 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS No tes t o the C o N solid ated Fi N a NC ial s tateme N ts CoNtiNued 5 dirEcTOrs and EmPlOyEEs 2 sEGmEnTal disclOsUrE For the purposes of determining its operating segments, the chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the Executive Committee of the Board.
Profit before taxation is stated after charging the following amounts: This committee approves investment decisions, allocates the Groups resources and reviews the internal reporting in order to assess performance.
2018 2017 m m The Group has determined that its operating segments are the management teams that report into the Executive Committee of the Board.
These Staff costs management teams are all engaged in residential-led, mixed-use development in the United Kingdom and, having regard to the aggregation criteria in IFRS 8, the Group has one reportable operating segment.
Wages and salaries 208.1 194.4 For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments all assets are considered to be attributable to Social security costs 31.3 20.1 residential-led mixed-use development.
Share-based payments Equity settled 15.6 39.0 Share-based payments Cash settled 17.3 10.6 3 nET financE cOsTs 2018 2017 Pension costs 7.0 6.2 m m 279.3 270.3 Finance income 6.6 2.1 The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year was 2,617 2017: 2,443.
Finance costs: Key Management compensation Interest payable on bank loans and non-utilisation fees 7.5 3.9 Key management comprises the Main Board, as the Directors are considered to have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling Amortisation of facility fees 1.8 1.5 the activities of the Group.
Details of Directors emoluments as included in the Income Statement during the year are as follows: Other finance costs 4.3 2018 2017 9.3 9.7 m m Net finance costs 2.7 7.6 Directors' remuneration 2.4 2.9 Amount charged under long term incentive schemes 19.4 41.0 Finance income predominantly represents interest earned on cash deposits.
Company contributions to the defined contribution pension schemes 0.1 0.1 Other finance costs represent imputed interest on taxation and on land purchased on deferred settlement terms.
21.9 44.0 4 Pr OfiT bEfOrE TaxaTiOn The Directors Remuneration Report includes disclosure of the gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year, which was Profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting the following amounts: 21.3 million 2017: 83.8 million in aggregate.
In 2018 the value of the gain made by Directors on the exercise of share options is limited by the LTIP cap, 2018 2017 which was introduced as part of the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 EGM see page 109 for further details.
m m The Company reports that, during the year, it settled the proceedings brought by Mr Nicolas Simpkin, its former Finance Director, in the Employment Staff costs note 5 279.3 270.3 Tribunal and High Court.
Under the settlement Berkeley made a payment of 4.95 million to Mr Simpkin and a further payment of 4.55 million towards his Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 9 2.7 2.8 legal fees and disbursements.
On being dismissed by the Company, Mr Simpkins options over 3.5 million shares in the Company lapsed.
All allegations made by Mr Simpkin in the proceedings have been withdrawn.
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 Operating lease costs 3.4 2.7 Equity settled share based payments The Group operates one 2017: one equity settled share-based payment scheme.
The charge to the income statement in respect of share-based payments Fees paid and payable to the Companys current auditor for the audit of the Parent Company 0.5 0.5 in the year relating to grants of share options awarded under the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan was 14.8 million 2017: 40.6 million.
The charge to the Fees paid and payable to the Companys current auditor for other services: income statement attributable to key management is 13.1 million 2017: 35.0 million.
The credit to the reserves during the year in respect of employee share schemes was 4.2 million 2017: 1.3 million charge, resulting from the non-cash IFRS 2 charge for the year, as reflected in the cash flow statement, Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 adjusted for the reclassification of reserves on the decision to cash settle the part of the award relating to taxes which vested during the year.
Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 There were 44,319 exercisable share options at the end of the year 2017: 24,789.
During the year 2,042,825 options vested under the 2011 Long Term Taxation advisory services 0.1 Incentive Plan 2017: 5,740,438.
The value of inventories expensed and included in the cost of sales is 1,603.2 million 2017: 1,625.7 million.
2011 Long Term Incentive Plan The Company announced in June 2011 as part of a strategic review of the business a long term plan to return approximately 1.7 billion to shareholders over In addition to the above services, the Groups current auditor has been asked to act as auditor to The Berkeley Final Salary Plan.
The appointment of the next 10 years.
In December 2015, a revision to the plan was proposed to return an additional 0.5 billion to shareholders.
auditors to the Groups pension scheme and the fees paid in respect of the audit are agreed by the trustees of the scheme, who act independently of the management of the Group.
The fees paid to the Groups auditors for audit services to the pension scheme during the year were 8,500 2017: 8,500.
A long term remuneration plan was proposed to support this strategy, the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 LTIP, which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 5 September 2011 followed by amendments at the Annual General Meeting on 16 February 2016 and the Extraordinary Fees paid in the year to the Groups current auditor for audit-related assurance services relate to the interim review.
The key features of the 2011 LTIP are: if the Company returns 2.3 billion to shareholders over a ten year period via a series of dividend payments and share buy-backs 16.34 per share by the milestone dates referred to below, participants will be entitled to exercise options and receive a number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company at the end of each period.
the maximum number of shares capable of being earned by all participants was 19,616,503 shares, being 13% of the fully diluted share capital of the Company at the date of approval of the plan.
During the year, the introduction of individual participant caps was approved by shareholders.
the exercise price of options granted under the 2011 LTIP will be 16.34 per share less an amount equal to the value of all dividends, paid between the date of approval of the 2011 LTIP and vesting dates, beginning in September 2016 with five annual vestings thereafter, provided the exercise price cannot be less than zero.
136 136 1 137 37 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS No tes t o the C o N solid ated Fi N a NC ial s tateme N ts CoNtiNued 5 dirEcTOrs and E mPlOyEEs cOnTinUEd Defined benefit plan As at 30 April 2018, the Group operated one defined benefit pension scheme which was closed to future accrual with effect from 1 April 2007.
This is a The cumulative distributions required by the plan on or before the relative milestone dates are set out below: separate trustee administered fund holding the pension plan assets to meet long term pension liabilities for some 312 past employees.
The level of cUmUlaTivE disTribUTiOns retirement benefit is principally based on salary earned in the last three years of employment prior to leaving active service and is linked to changes in inflation up to retirement.
30 September 2016 6.34 per share The Berkeley Final Salary Plan is subject to an independent actuarial valuation at least every three years.
The most recently finalised valuation was carried 30 September 2017 8.34 per share out as at 1 May 2016 and finalised in July 2017.
The method adopted in the 2016 valuation was the projected unit credit method, which assumed a return on 30 September 2018 10.34 per share investment both prior to and after retirement of 4.10% per annum and pension increases of 3.25% per annum.
The market value of the Berkeley Final Salary Plan assets as at 1 May 2016 was 18.4 million and covered 96% of the schemes liabilities.
Following the finalisation of the 2016 valuation, the Group agreed 30 September 2019 12.34 per share with the Trustees of the Scheme to make additional contributions to the Scheme of 0.8 million over a fifteen month period 1 May 2016 to 31 July 2017 to 30 September 2020 14.34 per share address the Schemes deficit after which required contributions were reduced to zero.
Notwithstanding this the Group made additional voluntary 30 September 2021 16.34 per share contributions of 0.6 million during the year 2017: 0.6 million.
The Group considers it does not have the unconditional right to a refund of an asset surplus in the plan and thus the asset ceiling applies.
The fair value of the options granted during that year, determined using the current market pricing model, was 3.17 for options which then vest on 30 September 2021.
The inputs into the current market option pricing model were: For the purposes of IAS 19, the 2016 valuation was updated for 30 April 2018. inPUTs The most significant risks to which the plan exposes the group are: Grant date 5 September 2011 Inflation risk: A rise in inflation rates will lead to higher plan liabilities as a large proportion of the defined benefit obligation is indexed in line with price Vesting date 30 September 2021 inflation.
This effect will be limited due to caps on inflationary increases to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
Share price at grant date p 1,236 Interest rate risk: A decrease in corporate bond yields would result in an increase to plan liabilities although this effect would be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Exercise price p nil Mortality risk: An increase in life expectancy would result in an increase to plan liabilities as a significant proportion of the Pension Schemes obligations are Discount rate 6.3% to provide benefits for the life of the member.
As a result of modifications in 2017, which introduced individual participant caps and extended the service period by a further two years, there was a The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are determined as follows: decrease in the fair value cost of the options.
This has been considered a non-beneficial modification for accounting purposes, and accordingly there has 2018 2017 been no impact on the accounting treatment applied.
m m The discount rate was determined by calculating the Groups expected cost of capital over the vesting period at the grant date.
Present value of defined benefit obligations 19.4 20.5 During the year 533,000 new additional options were granted 2017: none and no options lapsed 2017: 1,250,557 lapsed on departure of one employee.
Net surplus in the plan 2.1 0.5 Cash settled share based payments Effect of the asset ceiling 2.1 0.5 Bonus Banking Plan Net amount recognised on the statement of financial position Under the Bonus Banking Plan, detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 112, 50% of the balance on the plan account at the end of the financial year is deferred in notional shares in the Company.
The notional shares will be settled in cash each year excluding the year ending 30 April 2021 Movement in net defined benefit asset: when the scheme will fully vest and at which point 50% of the remaining balance at that date will be settled in equity, and 50% in cash.
Accordingly the plan dEfinEd bEnEfiT ObliGaTiOn fair valUE Plan assETs nET dEfinEd bEnEfiT assET is accounted for as cash settled, with only the proportion expected to vest in shares at the end of the plan accounted for as equity settled.
This amount is not of significant quantum to warrant individual disclosure.
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m The liability has been accrued over the vesting period.
The income statement is charged with an estimate for the vesting of notional shares awarded subject to service and non-market performance conditions.
The charge for 2018 was 6.3 million 2017: 6.0 million, all of which related to key management.
Balance at 1 May 20.5 15.9 21.0 18.1 0.5 2.2 Included in income statement The total carrying amount of liabilities for the Bonus Banking Plan at the end of the year was 7.0 million 2017: 6.8 million, recorded in accruals and deferred income.
Net interest 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.6 Included in other comprehensive income Senior Management share appreciation rights Certain key members of senior management have been awarded cash bonuses deferred in notional shares in the Company.
The notional shares have a Remeasurements: contractual life of five years after the bonus is allocated, and are settled in cash subject to continued employment by the Company and individual and Actuarial gain loss arising from: divisional performance criteria.
demographic assumptions 0.3 0.6 0.3 0.6 The liability is accrued over the vesting period.
The charge for 2018 was 11.9 million 2017: 3.1 million.
financial assumptions 0.5 3.7 0.5 3.7 experience adjustments 0.3 0.3 The total carrying amount of liabilities for share appreciation rights at the end of the year was 38.8 million 2017: 30.3 million, recorded in accruals and deferred income.
Return on plan assets 0.2 2.3 0.2 2.3 Pensions Other During the year, two principal pension schemes were in place for employees 2017: two.
The Berkeley Group plc Group Personal Pension Plan and Contributions by the employer 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 the StGeorge PLC Group Personal Pension Plan are defined contribution schemes.
The assets of these schemes were held in separate trustee Benefits paid out 0.8 0.6 0.8 0.6 administered funds.
balance at 30 april 19.4 20.5 21.5 21.0 2.1 0.5 The Berkeley Final Salary Plan is a defined benefit scheme which was closed to future accrual with effect from 1 April 2007.
Defined contribution plan Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity: Contributions amounting to 5.8 million 2017: 5.3 million were paid into the defined contribution schemes during the year.
2018 2017 m m Cumulative amounts of losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at 1 May 6.7 6.1 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 1.0 2.3 Change in the effect of the asset ceiling 1.6 1.7 Cumulative amounts of losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at 30 April 7.3 6.7 138 138 1 139 39 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS No tes t o the C o N solid ated Fi N a NC ial s tateme N ts CoNtiNued 5 dirEcTOrs and E mPlOyEEs cOnTinUEd 6 TaxaTiOn The tax charge for the year is as follows: The fair value of the assets were as follows: 30 aPril 30 aPril 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m lOnG TErm lOnG TErm Current tax valUE valUE m m UK corporation tax payable 177.8 162.4 Adjustments in respect of previous years 9.4 1.8 UK Equities 1.0 0.9 Global Equities 4.8 4.3 168.4 160.6 Emerging Market Equities 1.8 1.5 Deferred tax High Yield Bonds 2.0 1.9 Deferred tax movements 1.8 1.7 Diversified Growth Fund 5.0 4.9 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2.6 5.0 4.4 6.7 Government Bonds over 15 years 1.1 1.1 Government Bonds 5 to 15 years 1.9 1.9 172.8 167.3 Index Linked Gilts over 5 years 2.3 2.4 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is as follows: Corporate Bonds 1.5 1.4 2018 2017 Cash 0.1 0.7 m m Fair value of plan assets 21.5 21.0 Deferred tax on remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset liability note 16 0.1 0.1 All equity securities and government bonds have quoted prices in active markets.
All government bonds are issued by European governments and are Tax on items recognised directly in equity is as follows: AAAor AArated.
All other plan assets are not quoted in an active market.
2018 2017 m m History of asset values Deferred tax in respect of employee share schemes note 16 4.4 0.2 30 aPril 30 aPril 30 aPril 30 aPril 30 aPril 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Current tax in respect of employee share schemes note 16 0.6 5.6 m m m m m 3.8 5.8 Fair value of plan assets 21.5 21.0 18.1 18.1 16.0 The tax charge assessed for the year differs from the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 19.0% 2017: 19.92%.
Present value of defined benefit obligations 19.4 20.5 15.9 16.6 14.8 The differences are explained below: Net surplus in the plan 2.1 0.5 2.2 1.5 1.2 2018 2017 Actuarial assumptions m m The major assumptions used by the actuary for the 30 April 2018 valuation were: Profit before tax 934.9 812.4 30 aPril 30 aPril Valuation at: 2018 2017 Tax on profit at standard UK corporation tax rate 177.6 161.8 Discount rate 2.60% 2.60% Effects of: Inflation assumption RPI 3.40% 3.60% Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.6 0.9 Inflation assumption CPI 2.50% 2.70% Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 0.2 0.1 Rate of increase in pensions in payment post-97 Pre-97 receive 3% p. a. increases 3.40% 3.60% Adjustments in respect of previous years 6.8 3.2 Effect of change in rate in tax note 16 1.2 1.2 The mortality assumptions are the standard S2PA CMI 2017 X [1.0%] 2017: S2PA CMI 2015 X [1.0%] base table for males and females, both adjusted for Other 0.4 0.1 each individuals year of birth to allow for future improvements in mortality rates.
The life expectancy of male and female pensioners now aged 65 retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date is 21.8 years and 23.7 years respectively 2017: 22.0 and 24.0 years.
The life expectancy of male and female deferred Tax charge 172.8 167.3 pensioners now aged 45 retiring at age 65 after the balance sheet date is 22.8 years and 24.9 years respectively 2017: aged 45, 23.3 and 25.5 years.
Corporation tax is calculated at 19.0% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Sensitivity analysis The calculation of the defined benefit obligation is sensitive to the assumptions set out above.
The following table summarises how the impact on the The Group manages its tax affairs in an open and transparent manner with the tax authorities and observes all applicable rules and regulations in the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period would have increased as a result of a change in the respective assumptions.
countries in which it operates.
Factors that may affect the Groups tax charge in future periods include changes in tax legislation and the closure of open tax chanGE in matters in the ordinary course of events.
The adjustments in respect of previous years reflects the agreement of a number of previously open issues and tax dEfinEd relief claims.
chanGE in bEnEfiT Changes to UK corporation tax rates were substantially enacted as part of Finance Act 2015 No2 on 18 November 2015 and the Finance Act 2016 on assUmPTiOn ObliGaTiOn 15September 2016.
These changes include reductions to the main rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 17% from 1 April 2020.
Deferred Discount rate -0.25% p. a 4.0% taxes at the balance sheet date have been measured using these enacted tax rates and are based on when these assets are expected to be realised.
Rate of inflation 0.25% p. a 2.8% Rate of mortality 1 year 3.7% These calculations provide an approximate guide to the sensitivity of results and may not be as accurate as a full valuation carried out on these assumptions.
In practice, changes in some of the assumptions are correlated and so each assumption change is unlikely to occur in isolation, as shown above.
Funding The Group expects to pay 0.6 million in contributions to its defined benefit plan in the year ending 30 April 2019, albeit it has no obligation to do so.
140 140 1 141 41 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 FINANCIALS financials berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 financials FINANCIALS No tes t o the C o N solid ated Fi N a NC ial s tateme N ts CoNtiNued 7 Ea rninGs PEr Ordinary sharE 9 PrOPErTy, PlanT and EqUiPmEnT PrOPErTy, PlanT and EqUiPmEnT Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated as profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders of the Group divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
fixTUrEs frEEhOld and mOTOr 2018 2017 PrOPErTy fiTTinGs vEhiclEs TOTal Profit attributable to shareholders m 762.1 645.1 m m m m Weighted average number of shares m 135.4 137.9 Cost Basic earnings per ordinary share p 562.7 467.8 At 1 May 2017 17.4 12.1 3.7 33.2 Additions 4.1 1.4 0.6 6.1 For diluted earnings per ordinary share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive Disposals 0.9 0.9 1.8 ordinary shares.
At 30 April 2018, the Group had two 2017: two categories of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: 10.4 million 2017: 11.4 million share options under the 2011 LTIP and 21,000 2017: 12,000 share options under the Bonus Banking Plan.
at 30 april 2018 21.5 12.6 3.4 37.5 A calculation is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value based on the aggregate of the exercise price of Accumulated Depreciation each share option and the fair value of future services to be supplied to the Group which is the unamortised share-based payments charge.
The difference At 1 May 2017 1.2 7.5 1.7 10.4 between the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value and the total number of options is used in the diluted earnings per share Charge for the year 0.3 1.9 0.5 2.7 calculation.
Disposals 0.9 0.6 1.5 2018 2017 at 30 april 2018 1.5 8.5 1.6 11.6 Profit used to determine diluted EPS m 762.1 645.1 Net book value Weighted average number of shares m 135.4 137.9 At 1 May 2017 16.2 4.6 2.0 22.8 Adjustments for: at 30 april 2018 20.0 4.1 1.8 25.9 Share options 2011 LTIP m 3.1 5.0 Cost Shares used to determine diluted EPS m 138.5 142.9 At 1 May 2016 17.4 10.0 4.5 31.9 Diluted earnings per ordinary share p 550.2p 451.4p Additions 2.6 0.2 2.8 Disposals 0.5 1.0 1.5 8 inTanGib lE assETs GOOdwill At 30 April 2017 17.4 12.1 3.7 33.2 m Accumulated Depreciation Cost At 1 May 2016 1.1 5.6 1.7 8.4 At 1 May 2017 and 30 April 2018 17.2 Charge for the year 0.1 2.2 0.5 2.8 Accumulated impairment Disposals 0.3 0.5 0.8 At 1 May 2017 and at 30 April 2018 At 30 April 2017 1.2 7.5 1.7 10.4 Net book value Net book value At 1 May 2017 and at 30 April 2018 17.2 At 1 May 2016 16.3 4.4 2.8 23.5 At 30 April 2017 16.2 4.6 2.0 22.8 Cost At 1 May 2016 and 30 April 2017 17.2 10 invEsTmEnTs in jOinT vEnTUrEs 2018 2017 Accumulated impairment m m At 1 May 2016 and at 30 April 2017 Unlisted shares at cost 11.0 11.0 Net book value Loans 92.3 70.3 At 1 May 2016 and at 30 April 2017 17.2 Share of post-acquisition reserves 211.8 53.8 Elimination of profit on transfer of inventory to joint ventures 0.1 0.1 The goodwill balance relates solely to the acquisition of the 50% of the ordinary share capital of St James Group Limited, completed on 7 November 2006 that was not already owned by the Group.
The goodwill balance is tested annually for impairment.
The recoverable amount has been determined on the 315.0 135.0 basis of the value in use of the business using the current five year pre-tax forecasts.
Key assumptions are as follows: Details of the joint ventures are provided in notes 24 and 25. i Cash flows beyond a five year period are not extrapolated: and The Groups share of joint ventures net assets, income and expenses is made up as follows: ii A pre-tax discount rate of 7.91% 2017: 8.36% based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
2018 2017 The Directors have identified no reasonably possible change in a key assumption which would give rise to an impairment charge.
m m At 1 May 135.0 150.0 Profit after tax for the year 158.0 63.8 Dividends from investments 70.0 Net increase decrease in loans to joint ventures 22.0 8.8 At 30 April 315.0 135.0 Net increase decrease in loans to joint ventures includes movements in unlisted shares at cost.
The current year movement includes no non-cash movement 2017: no non-cash movement.
