Principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The section below details the principal risks and uncertainties that are considered to have the most material impact on the Groups strategy and objectives.
These key risks are monitored on an ongoing basis by the Executive Directors, and considered fully by the Board in its annual risk review.
Change during Risk and impact Mitigation the year and outlook Self storage Self storage is a relatively immature market in the UK compared to other self storage The UK economy is projected market risk markets such as the United States and Australia, and we believe has further opportunity to grow at approximately 1.5% There is a risk to the for growth.
Awareness of self storage and how it can be used by domestic and business in 2018.
Self storage proved business that the self customers is relatively low throughout the UK, although higher in London.
The rate of growth relatively resilient through the storage market does not of branded self storage on main roads in good locations has historically been limited by GFC, with our revenue and grow in line with our the difficulty of acquiring sites at affordable prices and obtaining planning consent.
New earnings increasing over the last projections, and that store openings within the sector have slowed significantly over the past few years.
As the economy has economic growth in the recovered in the past few years, Our performance during the Global Financial Crisis GFC was relatively resilient, although UK is below expectations, the market risk has fallen in line not immune.
We believe that the resilience of our performance is due to a combination of which could result in with increasing occupancy.
factors including: falling demand and a There is increased a prime portfolio of freehold properties: loss of income.
macroeconomic uncertainty a focus on London and the South East and other large metropolitan cities, which proved associated with the UKs future more resilient during the GFC and where the drivers in the self storage market are at exit from the EU, and this has their strongest and the barriers to competition are at their highest: resulted in a broad range of opinions on the UKs future the strength of operational and sales management: economic performance.
continuing innovation to deliver the highest levels of customer service: The Groups like-for-like the UKs leading self storage brand, with high public awareness and online strength: and occupancy has increased by 3.9 percentage points in the strong cash flow generation and high operating margins, from a secure capital structure.
We have a large current storage customer base of approximately 55,000 spread across the portfolio of stores and hundreds of thousands more who have used Big Yellow over the years.
In any month, customers move in and out at the margin resulting in changes in occupancy.
This is a seasonal business and typically we see growth over the spring and the summer months, with the seasonally weaker periods being the winter months.
Our management has significant experience in the property industry generated over The planning process remains Property risk many years and in particular in acquiring property on main roads in high profile locations difficult and to achieve a There is a risk that we will and obtaining planning consents.
We do take planning risk where necessary, although planning consent can take be unable to acquire new the availability of land, and competition for it makes acquiring new sites challenging.
anything from eighteen months development sites which to three years.
Local planning meet managements criteria.
Our in-house development team and our professional advisers have significant policy is increasingly favouring This would impact on our experience in obtaining planning consents for self storage centres.
residential development over ability to grow the overall We manage the construction of our properties very tightly.
The building of each site is other uses, and we dont expect store platform.
The Group is handled through a design and build contract, with the fit out project managed in-house this to change given the also subject to the risk of using an established professional team of external advisers and sub-contractors who shortage of housing in the UK.
failing to obtain planning have worked with us for many years to our Big Yellow specification.
We carried out an consents on its development external benchmarking of our construction costs and tendering programme in 2016, sites, and the risk of a rising which had satisfactory results.
The valuations are carried out by independent, qualified external valuers who value a The revaluation surplus on the Valuation risk significant proportion of the UK self storage industry.
Groups open stores investment The valuations of the Groups properties was 72.9 million in the investment properties The portfolio is diverse with approximately 55,000 customers currently using our stores year an uplift of 6%, due to an may fall due to external for a wide variety of reasons.
improvement in cash flows and pressures or the impact of There is significant headroom on our loan to value banking covenants.
the capitalisation rates used in performance.
Lack of transactional evidence in the self storage There continues to be an increase sector leads to more in transactional evidence in the subjective valuations.
sector, with a number of portfolio transactions taking place in the current year.
35 Strategic Report continued Financial Review continued Change during Risk and impact Mitigation the year and outlook Treasury risk Our financing policy is to fund our current needs through a mix of debt, equity and cash flow Interest rates were increased The Group may face to allow us to selectively build out the remaining development pipeline and achieve our during the year, and the forecast increased costs from strategic growth objectives, which we believe improve returns for shareholders.
We have is for further moderate increases, adverse interest made it clear that we believe optimal leverage for a business such as ours should be LTV in albeit they are expected to remain rate movements.
the range 20% to 30% and this informs our management of treasury risk.
at relatively low levels for the foreseeable future.
UK inflation We aim to ensure that there are sufficient medium-term facilities in place to finance our reached 3% in 2017, but is forecast committed development programme, secured against the freehold portfolio, with debt to moderate slightly in 2018. serviced by our strong operational cash flows.
Debt providers currently remain We have a fixed rate loan in place from Aviva Commercial Finance Limited, with nine years supportive to companies with a remaining.
The Group has a 70 million loan from M&G Investments, which is 50% fixed and strong capital structure.
That said, 50% floating, repayable in 2023.
For our bank debt, we borrow at floating rates of interest a weaker macro-economic and use swaps to hedge our interest rate exposure.
Our policy is to have at least 40% of our performance by the UK economy total borrowings fixed, with the balance floating.
At 31 March 2018 46% of the Groups total could adversely affect liquidity borrowings were fixed or subject to interest rate derivatives.
The Group reviews its current and pricing.
and forecast projections of cash flow, borrowing and interest cover as part of its monthly management accounts.
In addition, an analysis of the impact of significant transactions is The Groups interest cover ratio carried out regularly, as well as a sensitivity analysis assuming movements in interest rates for the year to 31 March 2018 and store occupancy on gearing and interest cover.
This sensitivity testing underpins the was 7.6 times, comfortably ahead viability statement below.
of our internal target of 5 times.
The Group regularly monitors its counterparty risk.
The Group monitors compliance with its banking covenants closely.
During the year it complied with all its covenants, and is forecast to do so for the foreseeable future.
We regularly monitor proposed and actual changes in legislation with the help of our In addition to the regulatory and Tax and professional advisers, through direct liaison with HMRC, and through trade bodies to tax uncertainty linked to the regulatory risk understand and, if possible, mitigate or benefit from their impact.
UKs future exit from the EU, The Group is exposed to the Group has experienced an changes in the tax regime HMRC have designated the Group as having a low-risk tax status, and we hold regular increase in cost in the year affecting the cost of meetings with them.
We carry out detailed planning ahead of any future regulatory and following the Governments corporation tax, VAT Stamp tax changes using our expert advisers.
Duty and Stamp Duty Land The Group has internal monitoring procedures in place to ensure that the appropriate Tax SDLT, for example the REIT rules and legislation are complied with.
To date all REIT regulations have been imposition of VAT on self complied with, including projected tests.
The UKs future exit from the EU creates uncertainty over the future UK tax and regulatory environment.
The Group is exposed to potential tax penalties or loss of its REIT status by failing to comply with the REIT legislation.
We have developed a professional, lively and enjoyable working environment and believe During the prior year, an employee Human our success stems from attracting and retaining the right people.
We encourage all our consultancy conducted an resources risk staff to build on their skills through appropriate training and regular performance reviews.
engagement survey of our Our people are key to our We believe in an accessible and open culture and everyone at all levels is encouraged to employees.
The survey results success and as such we are review and challenge accepted norms, so as to contribute to the performance of the Group.
showed very high levels of exposed to a risk of high employee engagement 90%, staff turnover, and a risk of We were ranked 80th in the Sunday Times Best 100 Companies to Work For survey in which was an increase from 86% the loss of key personnel.
February 2016. from our previous survey in 2014.
With low unemployment, and a risk of higher staff turnover, difficulty in finding the right employees increases.
36 Change during Risk and impact Mitigation the year and outlook Brand and We have always aimed to run this business in a professional way, which has involved During the year, we developed a reputation risk strict adherence with all regulations that affect our business, such as health and safety crisis response plan with external The Group is exposed to legislation, building regulations in relation to the construction of our buildings, anti-slavery, consultants to ensure the Group the risk of a single serious anti-bribery and data regulations.
is well placed to deal with a major incident materially incident more effectively.
We also invest in cyber security discussed below, and make an ongoing investment in affecting our customers, staff training, facilities management and the maintenance of our stores.
people, financial To ensure consistency of service and to understand the needs of our customers, we send performance and hence surveys to every customer who moves in and moves out of the business.
The results of the our brand and reputation.
surveys and mystery shops are reviewed to continuously improve and deliver consistent performance throughout the business.
We maintain regular communication with our key stakeholders, customers, employees, shareholders and debt providers.
Security risk The safety and security of our customers, their belongings, and stores remains a key We have continued to run The Group is exposed to the priority.
To achieve this we invest in state of the art access control systems, individual courses for all our staff to risk of the damage or loss of room alarms, digital CCTV systems, intruder and fire alarm systems and the remote enhance the awareness and store due to vandalism, fire, monitoring of all our stores outside of our trading hours.
We are the only major operator effectiveness of our procedures or natural incidents such as in the UK self storage industry that has every room in every store individually alarmed.
This may also We have implemented customer security procedures in line with advice from the Police We regularly review and cause reputational damage.
and continue to work with the regulatory authorities on issues of security, reviewing our implement improvements to operational procedures regularly.
The importance of security and the need for vigilance our security processes is communicated to all store staff and reinforced through training and routine and procedures.
The Group receives specialist advice and consultancy in respect of cyber security and We dont consider the risk to Cyber risk we have dedicated in-house monitoring and regular review of our security systems, have increased any faster for the High profile cyber-attacks we also limit the retention of customer data to the minimum requirement.
Group than anyone else: however and data breaches are a we consider that the threats in regular staple in todays Policies and procedures are under regular review and benchmarked against industry the entire digital landscape do news.
The results of any best practice by our consultants.
These policies also include defend, detect and continue to increase.
breach may result in response policies.
reputational damage, fines, During the year we have We have also instigated a new working group for compliance with the new EU General or customer compensation, continued to invest in digital Data Protection Regulation GDPR which comes into effect on 25 May 2018. causing a loss of market security.
Some of the changes share and income.
include more frequent penetration testing of internet facing systems, adding components such as anti-ransomware as well as the maintenance replacement of components such as firewalls to the latest technology and specification.
The introduction of GDPR legislation from May 2018 places additional regulatory burdens onto the Group and carries significant penalties for non-compliance.
37 Strategic Report continued Financial Review continued Internal audit VIABILITY STATEMENT The Group does not have a formal internal audit function because the The Directors have assessed the Groups viability over a four year Board has concluded that the internal controls systems are sufficient for period to March 2022.
This period is selected based on the Groups long the Group at this time.
However, the Group employs a Store Compliance term strategic plan to give greater certainty over the forecasting Manager responsible for reviewing store operational and financial controls.
He reports to the Chief Financial Officer, and also meets with the Audit In making their assessment, the Directors took account of the Groups Committee at least once a year.
This role is supported by an Assistant current financial position, including committed capital expenditure.
The Store Compliance Manager, enabling additional work and support to be Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and carried out across the Groups store portfolio.
The Store Compliance team uncertainties facing the business and their potential financial impact will visit each operational store once to twice per year to carry out a on the Groups cash flows, REIT compliance and financial covenants detailed store audit.
These audits are unannounced and the Store and the likely effectiveness of the mitigating options detailed.
The Compliance team carry out detailed tests on financial management, Directors have assumed that funding for the business in the form of administrative standards, and operational standards within the stores.
equity, bank and insurance debt will be available in all reasonably Part of the store staffs bonus is based on the scores they achieve in these plausible market conditions.
The results of each audit are reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer, Based on this assessment the Directors have a reasonable expectation the Financial Controller and the Head of Store Operations.
that the Company and the Group will be able to continue operating and meeting all their liabilities as they fall due to March 2022.
GOING CONCERN A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes in the financial statements.
Further information concerning the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in this Report and in the notes to the financial statements.
After reviewing Group and Company cash balances, borrowing facilities, forecast valuation movements and projected cash flows, the Directors believe that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion the Directors have had regard to the Groups operating plan and budget for the year ending 31 March 2019 and projections contained in the longerterm business plan which covers the period to March 2022.
The Directors have carefully considered the Groups trading performance and cash flows as a result of the uncertain global economic environment and the other principal risks to the Groups performance and are satisfied with the Groups positioning.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
