Principal risks and uncertainties The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and determining the Groups risk appetite.
The review of financial risk has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The Groups risk framework, using a variety of top down and bottom up approaches, is used to identify, monitor and report risks.
The risks are aggregated first at a divisional level and then at Group level.
For each business critical risk, assurance activities have been documented in risk assurance maps and these are used to direct assurance activity including that of Internal Audit.
The Group Head of Risk is supported by the Risk and SHE Committee, which met three times during 2018, attended by a Vice President from each of the operating divisions, the Group Head of SHE and the General Counsel.
The Risk and SHE Committee assists the Group Head of Risk in identifying critical risks, embedding risk management and facilitating the implementation of risk management measures throughout the Group.
The Group Head of Risk provides an update to the Executive and Audit Committees on the Groups risk activities at every meeting and a comprehensive review of the Groups business critical risks is presented to the Board in June and in December.
The Board concluded that an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has been in place throughout 2018 and a robust assessment of the principal risks had been undertaken.
The table below highlights the major risks that may affect Bodycotes ability to deliver the strategy, as laid out on page 8.
These risks have been reviewed throughout the year and no risks have been added or removed since 2017.
The two risks added in 2017, Environmental and Capital Projects, have been subject to risk deep dives by the Board during 2018.
In July 2018, a fire occurred at the Syracuse facility in New York State resulting in the total loss of the facility.
Bodycote personnel responded safely and quickly to ensure the continuity of service for customers.
The Groups business continuity framework responded and customers parts are being treated at other Bodycote facilities.
Per the criteria that the Board has agreed to assess potential risks, they may be classified as principal risks by virtue of their potential financial impact on the Group in the foreseeable future, in combination with the likelihood of this impact occurring.
The Board has examined and assessed the potential risks facing the Group as a result of the 2016 referendum on the future of the UKs membership in the European Union.
These risks included potential impacts on future performance and business model considerations.
The Board does not expect this will have a material impact on Bodycote as customers are served locally and therefore cross-border trading is not material.
In determining the Group's principal risks, The Board also examined and assessed the potential risks to the Group posed by the wider effects of climate change on Bodycote's business.
The Board concluded that the effects of climate change do not qualify as a principal risk for the Group.
Details of the Groups financial risks funding, foreign exchange, interest rate and counterparty risks, which are managed by the Groups treasury function, are provided in note 18 to the financial statements.
The mitigating activities described below will help to reduce the impact or likelihood of the major risk occurring, although the Board recognises that it will not be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
The Board recognises that there could be risks that may be unknown or that may be judged to be insignificant at present but may later prove to be significant.
For this reason business continuity plans have been prepared for all plants to provide for situations where specific risks have the potential to severely impact the business.
Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Market and customer risks Markets Stable Bodycotes presence in 23 countries servicing more than Bodycote operates in 23 countries The high proportion of short-term 40,000 customers across a wide and the Groups revenues can be fixed costs in the business means variety of end-markets acts as a expected if macroeconomic trends, that a drop in sales will have a natural hedge to neutralise localised as well as the life cycles of the significant impact on profitability.
economic volatility and component different components at the Group.
The result of the referendum on the future of the UKs membership of the There is some short-term flexibility European Union is not expected to in the cost base e. g. by ensuring have a material transactional impact that a proportion of the workforce is as customers are typically served employed on temporary contracts locally and cross-border trading is not and changes in customer demand material.
It should be noted that revenues for the UK represent only 8% of Group revenues, with the significant majority of its business coming from UK customers.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 29 14 03 2019 15:55:31 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Market and customer risks continued Loss of key customers Stable The Group has more than 40,000 Bodycote benefits from many longAlthough the Group does not rely customers and there is no term relationships with key customers on any individual major customers, significant customer dependency, and the damage to, or loss of, any the loss of a key customer could with the Groups top ten customers of these relationships would be adversely affect the Group's financial accounting for less than 16% of detrimental to the Group.
results and the viability of one or revenues.
There is an ongoing focus on customer service and quality processes to maintain excellent relationships with customers.
Key account management is in place where this is required to deliver good customer service.
Competitor action Stable The close control of proprietary The entry of competitors into one The erosion of market share resulting knowledge.
or more of the Groups Specialist in loss of revenue and profit.
Rapid increase in the scale of the Groups offerings to maintain the position as supplier of choice.
A focus on customer service to ensure that satisfied customers have no cause to seekalternative suppliers.
Corporate and community risks Safety and health Stable Group-wide health and safety The nature of Bodycotes activities Bodycote is committed to providing policies set by the Group Chief presents safety and health risks.
a safe work environment for its Executive.
employees but Bodycotes operations, if not properly managed, could have OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 a significant impact on individual compliant SHE management employees.
Furthermore, poor safety systems being used by Group and health practices could lead to Head of Safety, Health and disruption of business, financial Environment with support of penalties and loss of reputation.
divisional safety, health and environmental teams.
Programme in place to focus on reduction of incidents which could have a high impact.
Safety compliance audits at all plants at least every two years.
Oversight of safety and health framework provided by the Group Risk and SHE Committee.
30 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 30 14 03 2019 15:55:32 Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Environment Stable Environmental procedures and Actual or potential environmental Bodycote is committed to providing measures in place conforming to contamination could lead to health the highest level of protection to ISO 14001 2018: 90% of plants.
risks, disruption of business, financial the environment.
Environmental costs and loss of reputation.
regulators in many jurisdictions Environmental due diligence of in which Bodycote operates can businesses for acquisition.
impose obligations on Bodycote to Remediation of contaminated sites investigate potential contamination or additional emission abatement and remediate where required.
as required by local legislation.
Operational risks Service quality Increasing Bodycote has stringent quality The Bodycote brand is reliant on the Deterioration in quality or service systems in place managed by repeatable delivery of parts to agreed levels can cause serious long-term qualified staff.
specification to an agreed time.
damage to Bodycotes reputation with financial consequences such as Quality systems and processes the loss of a customer and the cost operated at plant level with of damages or litigation.
Work that oversight by divisional quality is released into use which is not in teams.
compliance with specification could Where necessary, plants maintain arise as a result of system or human industry relevant accreditations, failure.
such as ISO 9001, Nadcap and IATF 16949.
Customers are tending to demand higher liabilities in respect of All plants subjected to internal any quality defects or delays on and external quality audits and Bodycotes part.
inspections at least once a year.
Bodycote carefully negotitates terms and conditions associated with the supply of services to its customers, carefully managing potential liabilities.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 31 14 03 2019 15:55:32 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Operational risks continued Major disruption at a facility Stable Bodycote has a global network Bodycotes business processes Any significant incident at a site could of more than 180 facilities.
These are inherently risky and there is a result in the service to Bodycotes facilities create a framework to possibility that a major fire such as customers from the affected site provide backup capability for that suffered in 2018 at the Syracuse being disrupted.
facility USA or utility outage could lead to closure of a facilitys operation.
Business continuity plans are In addition a number of sites are in place for all plants.
These are exposed to natural hazards, such as updated and tested annually.
The Board reviewed the testing of Business Continuity plans in 2018.
The fire in July 2018, which resulted in a total loss of the Group's Syracuse USA facility, highlighted the success of the Group's business continuity plans.
Independent insurer inspections to assess hazard and business interruption risks.
Insurance cover, including business interruption cover.
Scheduled equipment maintenance and inspections.
Capital projects Increasing There is a well established capital The Group invests capital in developing The Group is undertaking a higher investment approval process that existing plants as well as into Greenfield number of capital projects.
This may applies to all major capital projects.
This cause projects to be delivered late or risk was reviewed by the Board during at a higher cost than forecast.
Market Project Management frameworks 2018 and additional controls will be conditions may also change making are being improved and additional implemented during 2019. a project less profitable than initially resource being applied to deliver projected.
projects on time and on cost.
All major projects are subject to post implementation reviews.
Information T echnology projects Stable The Group has robust governance The efficient operation of the Group A significant failure of IT systems as processes to ensure that IT relies on the smooth operation of a result of external factors, such as projects are properly reviewed its IT systems.
During 2018, the a cyber-attack, could disrupt service and approved to ensure that they Group completed the roll-out of the to our customers, and result in are consistent with the Group's IT finance and purchasing modules of reputational loss and financial loss.
The Group continues to work on its operations module to Increased focus on IT security ensure that it responds to business management processes.
The Well protected data centres with Group currently uses a range of ERP defined disaster recovery planning solutions to manage its operations.
32 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 32 14 03 2019 15:55:32 Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Regulatory risks Regulatory and legislative Stable compliance Failure to comply with legislation Business processes are supported The global nature of Bodycotes could lead to substantial financial by HR policies and the Group Code operations means that the Group penalties, disruption to business, of Conduct alongside training and has to comply with a wide range diversion of management time, awareness programmes.
of local and international legislative personal and corporate liability and requirements, including anti-bribery The Open Door Line loss of reputation.
and anti-competition legislation, whistleblower facility which is taxation legislation, employment law managed by a third party.
and import and export controls.
Engagement of local specialists to support Bodycote at local, divisional and Group level.
Regular audit of the effectiveness of implemented procedures.
Viability statement In preparing this statement of viability, the directors have considered the prospects of the Group over the three year period immediately following the 2018 financial year.
This longer term assessment process supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, and going concern on page 28.
A three year period was determined as it is a reasonable period over which the business could be restructured in the event that any material changes to demand for the Groups services transpired.
As a result, the Board determined that a period of longer than three years would not be meaningful for the purpose of concluding on longer term viability.
The forecast used considers metrics which enable assessment of the Groups key performance indicators including return on capital employed, headline earnings per share and headline operating cash flow in addition to net debt, liquidity and financing requirements.
In conducting the review of the Groups prospects the directors assessed the three year plan alongside the Groups current position, the Groups strategy and the principal risks facing the Group all of which are detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 37.
This assessment considered the impact of the principal risks on the business model and on future prospects and performance, including the possible impact of Brexit, liquidity and solvency and was mindful of the limited forward visibility that the Group has as it carries no order backlog.
The directors viability assessment included a review of the sensitivity analysis performed on the three year plan, whereby the principal risks were applied to the plan in a number of diverging scenarios.
The developed scenarios were designed to be plausible, yet severe.
Examples of scenarios reviewed were: A decrease in forecast revenue of similar magnitude to the largest year-on-year decrease suffered in the last ten years.
A 10% decrease in revenue, debtor days and strengthening of sterling to reflect an economic downturn.
In making this viability statement the directors considered the mitigating actions that are taken by the Group in the event that the principal risks of the Company become realised.
The directors also took into consideration the Groups financial position at 31 December 2018, with net cash of 36.2m, available committed facility headroom of 230m and a history of strong cash generation.
The directors have assessed the viability of the Group and, based on the procedures outlined above in addition to activities undertaken by the Board in its normal course of business, confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2021.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 33 14 03 2019 15:55:32 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
