Risk management The Board is required to assess the The sensitivities along with the impact of The assessment process and prospects of the Company, taking account the expected mitigating actions that would assumptions of its current position and principal risks, be taken by the Group, were overlaid on A Risk Governance Committee operates and to explain how this has been done, the Groups 5 year Strategic Plan.
with representation from all parts of over what period and why that period is The key mitigating actions we expect the our business to identify and monitor considered appropriate.
business to take in a downturn include the threats identified from within restricting investment in land, reducing the the Group.
This is coupled with a robust The assessment context level of production and work in progress assessment carried out by the Board to held and optimising our overhead base to The Board has considered the longer formally agree and assess the principal ensure it aligns with the scale of operations term viability of the Group, reviewing this risks facing the Group, including those through the cycle.
over a 5 year period based on the strategy that would threaten the execution of its as outlined on pages 18 to 29 to the strategy, future performance and liquidity.
The results of this stress testing current performance of the Group and Management and mitigation of these indicated that the Group would be able its principal risks.
The average life cycle principal risks, as set out on page 32 to to withstand the impact of these of our housing developments falls within 35, have been taken into consideration assumptions, taking into account the a 5-year time period and this aligns with when considering the future viability of impact of mitigating actions, on the the timeframe focused on for the annual the Group.
strategic review exercise conducted within As part of its annual strategic review the business and reviewed by the Board.
Viability statement the Board also considered the Groups 5 The Groups strategy was communicated Based on the results of this analysis, the year financial plan, the core assumptions in detail during 2018 with a focus on Board have a reasonable expectation that underpinning this plan and how the improving operational performance.
the Company will be able to continue in current economic and regulatory The Board has considered the Groups risk operation and meet its liabilities as they fall environment may impact this plan.
appetite and believes this to be towards due over the five year period reviewed.
The early years of the financial plan are the lower end of the risk scale for the prepared in detail with the basis being the housebuilding sector.
The Board have Going concern development of our existing land bank.
highlighted the following elements of the The directors also considered it appropriate There is inherently more uncertainty in the strategy as key considerations in reaching to prepare the financial statements on later years of the plan as these incorporate this view, all of which have an impact on the going concern basis, as explained a higher level of assumed housing the Groups key investment decisions: in the basis of preparation paragraph in completions from land owned currently note 1.3 to the accounts.
In forming this without planning or land not currently Focused on a Southern biased geography view, the Group has analysed its forecast owned by the Group.
Targeted at edge of town and large covenant compliance over the period The Groups financial plan has been village greenfield locations linked to its banking arrangement, arriving reviewed in the context of its operational at an assessment of the headroom evident Delivering a high proportion of standard performance during 2018 and stress tested between the forecast covenant headroom Phoenix designed housing against scenarios to assess the future and the outcomes necessary to achieve viability of the Group.
Traditional two storey family housing is the core product offering with only The potentially highest impact risks, from The Group entered into its current limited low rise apartments in the mix a Group viability point of view, are seen as banking arrangement on 3 December those which arise from either a downturn 2015 and it was extended for one year in Trending to reduce the average size of in the economic environment, for example both December 2016 and January 2018. our homes over time and ensure they following Brexit or fundamental changes This arrangement provides a committed remain affordable in government policy, leading to decreased revolving credit facility with a limit of affordability, reduced demand for housing The Groups strategy is to drive cash into 250 million maturing in December 2022. and falling house prices.
the business leading to expected low The Group regards its current banking levels of debt arrangement as adequate for its needs In testing our economic downturn in terms of flexibility and liquidity.
As at scenarios there have been sensitivities 31 December 2018, the Group had nil applied to the assumptions on sales drawings under the facility and had net rates sales volumes reductions of cash of 127 million.
15% in year 1 and 25% in year 2, pricing 5% reduction in year 1 and More details on the Groups approach to 10% reduction in year 2 and costs financial risk management are laid out in moderate reduction assumed.
| | 30 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Final touches before Phoenix takes off | Bovis Homes Group PLC 31
