Principal risks and uncertainties Link to strategic Annual Description Potential impact Whats changed over the last year?
How we are mitigating the risks?
priorities change Adverse affects on Whilst Brexit negotiations continue, there is no definitive Close monitoring of lead indicators in the housing market, notably visitors Deterioration of the consumer confidence outcome and uncertainty of the impact remains speculative.
to sales outlets, sales rates and price achieved.
health of the UK and demand for new economy, brought about Bank of England base rate increased from 0.50% to 0.75%.
Maintaining a rigorous approach to land acquisition, with spend homes, with consequential by uncertainty, loss of focused in the south of England, where the economy is expected to impact on revenues, profits Whilst the Help to Buy scheme has been confirmed beyond consumer confidence, remain more robust.
and potentially asset 2021, it will only be applicable to first time buyers and higher interest rates and carrying values.
A focus on cash generation to further strengthen our financial resilience.
increasing unemployment, leading to decreased New reporting that covers a variety of metrics to signpost early warning of Potential for increased affordability, reducing changes in consumer confidence.
restrictions on mortgages demand for housing and granted could reduce falling house prices.
demand for homes and therefore revenues and profits.
The Groups ability to build Working with suppliers to assess plans in the event of Brexit Maintain clear visibility of future production requirements and its impact on Increasing production is constrained and may supply issues.
across the industry may impact profitability if lead to shortages of EU net migration has reduced compared to previous years.
Maintain close relationships with key suppliers and subcontractors to gain costs rise.
both materials and visibility of future supply against need.
Fully established offices in the heart of each regional subcontract labour.
Inability to source raw operating area.
Centralised processes to monitor life of site costs across all our active sites, materials or unplanned Pressures on supply providing early warning and trend analysis.
delays in our supply chain.
chain brought about Revised remuneration package for our employed site managers to retain a by Brexit, or a weakening quality workforce.
of exchange rate impacting material prices or availability of skilled labour Unable to deliver sufficient Letwin report published October 2018 detailing Monthly build and cost forecasting processes with regular group oversight Inability to convert land shareholder returns from recommendations in support of government of regional performances.
assets to support required current developments or homebuilding targets.
Close monitoring of build performance and delivery against plan through a failure to achieve our New sites acquired, and a number of large schemes regular onsite visits from the leadership community.
A failure to achieve anticipated completions.
have become joint ventures with developers or housing our operational targets A new ERP system has been implemented, and investment has been association partners.
through the execution of prioritised to deliver new system capability to improve build forecasting and our build programme, or Implementation of core financial and commercial system planning processes a failure to control our to provide greater transparency and control over life of A quarterly supplier survey process has been established to better life of site costs.
understand Bovis Homes strengths and areas for improvement in managing our supply-chain relationships | | 32 Strategic report Our business and strategy Operational risk Market risk Materials and Economic and sales Project delivery subcontract labour environment Strategic report | Our business and strategy Principal risks and uncertainties Link to strategic Annual Description Potential impact Whats changed over the last year?
understand Bovis Homes strengths and areas for improvement in managing our supply-chain relationships || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 33 33 Materials and Economic and sales Project delivery subcontract labour environment Principal risks and uncertainties Link to strategic Annual Description Potential impact Whats changed over the last year?
priorities change The reputation of the Bovis Continued media scrutiny of customer issues relating to All homes built are subject to NHBC building control inspections.
Product quality and Homes brand is diminished home build quality across the sector.
service standards that do Quality inspections completed by build staff, sales staff and with an adverse effect on not meet our customers Now trending as a 4 star builder due to a much improved regional directors.
expectations or fall short quality and customer service.
Customer Home Buyer panel to gather insights which are being used to of the standards expected Excessive time and expense Continued to develop our Homebuyers panel of customers.
improve our customer offering and service.
rectifying and compensating Joined the Institute of Customer Service to enhance training.
Development of a new Customer Relationship Management tool that is customer, impacting allowing us to revisit all our customer processes to simplify and improve planned business operations.
The loss of key staff or the Cyber attacks and instances of customer data loss have A reward system that motivates achievement of performance targets.
An inability to attract, failure to attract, develop occurred in large listed businesses across the globe.
develop or retain Development programmes tailored to our employees.
and retain suitable talent good people.
Several HR related changes covering pay, gender pay Succession planning reviewed regularly to ensure pipeline for our leaders may inhibit the Groups reporting and family related benefits.
Our change programmes within the business.
ability to achieve its strategy.
fail and prevent business New IT capability and networking delivered replacing legacy Culture Internal Audit has been undertaken with action taken The loss of IT capability or operations.
New staff policies and processes to improve benefits and employee experience.
Major IT failure or A working group overseeing all project and programme change, aligned to a Business disruption, expense cyber attack disabling new in-house developed programme management standard.
and potential fines from a critical systems.
failure to manage customer and employee data in accordance with legislation.
A loss of trust in the Investment made in additional health and safety advisors to A consultative committee reviews performance and regulatory requirements Unsafe practices in our ability of Bovis Homes to increase performance across the business.
for health, safety and environmental matters.
construction activities build homes safely and causing injury or death New Health and Safety Director has been appointed to Monitoring health, safety and environmental performance against a in an environmentally to our stakeholders and bolster team capability.
responsible way, affecting damage to communities.
Reinforced as a key priority at every level within the business.
A requirement for regular training for all staff and site based personnel.
the reputation and financial health of the business.
Effective communication processes in place to proactively manage and monitor issues.
Increased costs and Government has confirmed legislation to require Self-assessment process to check that controls and external standards are Inability to adhere to an significant delays in developers of new build homes to belong to a New being adhered to across the business.
increasingly stringent production leading to Homes Ombudsman.
regulatory planning Participation in industry forums and events discussing potential regulatory reduced legal completions.
and technical New General Data Protection Regulation GDPR became changes and impacts.
Reduced number of active Investment in customer facing systems that help support compliance to the housing market.
sales outlets due to delays anticipated standards should a regulator be enacted.
in planning process leads to Strict regulatory Mandatory training has been delivered to all employees across a number of lower build and sales activity.
framework relating to topics including GDPR and information security.
the management of customer and employee information.
| | 34 Strategic report Our business and strategy Operational risk Health, safety and People, change and Increased regulation Customer service environmental business continuity Strategic report | Our business and strategy Link to strategic Annual Description Potential impact Whats changed over the last year?
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 35 35 Health, safety and People, change and Increased regulation Customer service environmental business continuity | | 36 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy 3mm offset added to each side of image Kings Reach, Ottery St Mary | Bovis Homes Group PLC 37
