Strategic report performance Risk factors The risks discussed below, separately or in combination, could have Liquidity, financial capacity and financial, including credit, a material adverse effect on the implementation of our strategy, our exposure failure to work within our financial framework could impact business, financial performance, results of operations, cash flows, our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
liquidity, prospects, shareholder value and returns and reputation.
Failure to accurately forecast or work within our financial framework could impact our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
Trade Strategic and commercial risks and other receivables, including overdue receivables, may not be recovered and a substantial and unexpected cash call or funding request Prices and markets our financial performance is impacted by could disrupt our financial framework or overwhelm our ability to meet fluctuating prices of oil, gas and refined products, technological change, our obligations.
exchange rate fluctuations, and the general macroeconomic outlook.
An event such as a significant operational incident, legal proceedings or Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and a geopolitical event in an area where we have significant activities, could demand and margins can be volatile.
Political developments, increased reduce our credit ratings.
This could potentially increase financing costs supply from new oil and gas sources, technological change, global and limit access to financing or engagement in our trading activities on economic conditions and the influence of OPEC can impact supply and acceptable terms, which could put pressure on the groups liquidity.
demand and prices for our products.
Decreases in oil, gas or product Credit rating downgrades could also trigger a requirement for the prices could have an adverse effect on revenue, margins, profitability company to review its funding arrangements with the BP pension and cash flows.
If significant or for a prolonged period, we may have to trustees and may cause other impacts on financial performance.
In the write down assets and re-assess the viability of certain projects, which event of extended constraints on our ability to obtain financing, we could may impact future cash flows, profit, capital expenditure and ability to be required to reduce capital expenditure or increase asset disposals in maintain our long-term investment programme.
Conversely, an increase order to provide additional liquidity.
See Liquidity and capital resources in oil, gas and product prices may not improve margin performance as on page 277 and Financial statements Note 29. there could be increased fiscal take, cost inflation and more onerous terms for access to resources.
The profitability of our refining and Joint arrangements and contractors varying levels of control petrochemicals activities can be volatile, with periodic over-supply or over the standards, operations and compliance of our partners, supply tightness in regional markets and fluctuations in demand.
contractors and sub-contractors could result in legal liability and reputational damage.
Exchange rate fluctuations can create currency exposures and impact underlying costs and revenues.
Crude oil prices are generally set in US We conduct many of our activities through joint arrangements, dollars, while products vary in currency.
Many of our major project associates or with contractors and sub-contractors where we may development costs are denominated in local currencies, which may have limited influence and control over the performance of such be subject to fluctuations against the US dollar.
Our partners and contractors are responsible for the adequacy of the resources and capabilities they bring to a project.
If Access, renewal and reserves progression inability to access, these are found to be lacking, there may be financial, operational or renew and progress upstream resources in a timely manner could safety risks for BP.
Should an incident occur in an operation that BP adversely affect our long-term replacement of reserves.
participates in, our partners and contractors may be unable or unwilling Delivering our group strategy depends on our ability to continually to fully compensate us against costs we may incur on their behalf or on replenish a strong exploration pipeline of future opportunities to access behalf of the arrangement.
Where we do not have operational control and produce oil and natural gas.
Competition for access to investment of a venture, we may still be pursued by regulators or claimants in the opportunities, heightened political and economic risks in certain event of an incident.
countries where significant hydrocarbon basins are located, Digital infrastructure and cyber security breach of our digital unsuccessful exploration activity and increasing technical challenges security or failure of our digital infrastructure including loss or misuse of and capital commitments may adversely affect our strategic progress.
sensitive information could damage our operations, increase costs and This, and our ability to progress upstream resources and sustain damage our reputation.
long-term reserves replacement, could impact our future production and financial performance.
The oil and gas industry is subject to fast-evolving risks from cyber threat actors, including nation states, criminals, terrorists, hacktivists and Major project delivery failure to invest in the best opportunities or insiders.
A breach or failure of our digital infrastructure including control deliver major projects successfully could adversely affect our financial systems due to breaches of our cyber defences, or those of third performance.
parties, negligence, intentional misconduct or other reasons, could We face challenges in developing major projects, particularly in seriously disrupt our operations.
This could result in the loss or misuse of geographically and technically challenging areas.
Poor investment data or sensitive information, injury to people, disruption to our business, choice, efficiency or delivery, or operational challenges at any major harm to the environment or our assets, legal or regulatory breaches and project that underpins production or production growth could adversely legal liability.
Furthermore, the rapid detection of attempts to gain affect our financial performance.
unauthorized access to our digital infrastructure, often through the use of sophisticated and co-ordinated means, is a challenge and any delay or Geopolitical exposure to a range of political developments and failure to detect could compound these potential harms.
These could consequent changes to the operating and regulatory environment result in significant costs including the cost of remediation or could cause business disruption.
We operate and may seek new opportunities in countries and regions Climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy where political, economic and social transition may take place.
Political policy, legal, regulatory, technology and market change related to the instability, changes to the regulatory environment or taxation, issue of climate change could increase costs, reduce demand for our international sanctions, expropriation or nationalization of property, products, reduce revenue and limit certain growth opportunities.
civil strife, strikes, insurrections, acts of terrorism and acts of war may disrupt or curtail our operations or development activities.
These may Changes in laws, regulations, policies, obligations, social attitudes and in turn cause production to decline, limit our ability to pursue new customer preferences relating to the transition to a lower carbon opportunities, affect the recoverability of our assets or cause us to incur economy could have a cost impact on our business, including increasing additional costs, particularly due to the long-term nature of many of our compliance and litigation costs, and could impact our strategy.
Such projects and significant capital expenditure required.
changes could lead to constraints on production and supply and access to new reserves.
Technological improvements or innovations that Events in or relating to Russia, including trade restrictions and other support the transition to a lower carbon economy, and customer sanctions, could adversely impact our income and investment in or preferences or regulatory incentives related to such changes that alter relating to Russia.
Our ability to pursue business objectives and to fuel or power choices, such as towards low emission energy sources, recognize production and reserves relating to these investments could impact demand for oil and gas.
Depending on the nature and could also be adversely impacted.
speed of any such changes and our response, this could adversely affect See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 55 the demand for our products, investor sentiment, our financial Security hostile acts against our staff and activities could cause harm performance and our competitiveness.
See Climate change on page 45. to people and disrupt our operations.
Competition inability to remain efficient, maintain a high quality Acts of terrorism, piracy, sabotage and similar activities directed against portfolio of assets, innovate and retain an appropriately skilled our operations and facilities, pipelines, transportation or digital workforce could negatively impact delivery of our strategy in a highly infrastructure could cause harm to people and severely disrupt competitive market.
Our activities could also be severely affected by conflict, civil strife or political unrest.
Our strategic progress and performance could be impeded if we are unable to control our development and operating costs and margins, Product quality supplying customers with off-specification products or to sustain, develop and operate a high quality portfolio of assets could damage our reputation, lead to regulatory action and legal liability, efficiently.
We could be adversely affected if competitors offer superior and impact our financial performance.
terms for access rights or licences, or if our innovation in areas such as Failure to meet product quality standards could cause harm to people exploration, production, refining, manufacturing, renewable energy or and the environment, damage our reputation, result in regulatory action new technologies lags the industry.
Our performance could also be and legal liability, and impact financial performance.
negatively impacted if we fail to protect our intellectual property.
Our industry faces increasing challenge to recruit and retain diverse, Compliance and control risks skilled and experienced people in the fields of science, technology, Regulation changes in the regulatory and legislative environment engineering and mathematics.
Successful recruitment, development could increase the cost of compliance, affect our provisions and limit and retention of specialist staff is essential to our plans.
our access to new growth opportunities.
Crisis management and business continuity failure to address Governments that award exploration and production interests may an incident effectively could potentially disrupt our business.
impose specific drilling obligations, environmental, health and safety Our business activities could be disrupted if we do not respond, or are controls, controls over the development and decommissioning of a field perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to any major crisis and possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or non-renewal or if we are not able to restore or replace critical operational capacity.
Royalties and taxes tend to be high compared with those imposed on similar commercial activities, and in certain Insurance our insurance strategy could expose the group to material jurisdictions there is a degree of uncertainty relating to tax law uninsured losses.
Governments may change their fiscal and BP generally purchases insurance only in situations where this is legally regulatory frameworks in response to public pressure on finances, and contractually required.
Some risks are insured with third parties and resulting in increased amounts payable to them or their agencies.
reinsured by group insurance companies.
Uninsured losses could have Such factors could increase the cost of compliance, reduce our a material adverse effect on our financial position, particularly if they arise profitability in certain jurisdictions, limit our opportunities for new at a time when we are facing material costs as a result of a significant access, require us to divest or write down certain assets or curtail operational event which could put pressure on our liquidity and cash flows.
or cease certain operations, or affect the adequacy of our provisions for pensions, tax, decommissioning, environmental and legal liabilities.
Safety and operational risks Potential changes to pension or financial market regulation could also Process safety, personal safety, and environmental risks impact funding requirements of the group.
Following the Gulf of Mexico exposure to a wide range of health, safety, security and environmental oil spill, we may be subjected to a higher level of fines or penalties risks could cause harm to people, the environment and our assets and imposed in relation to any alleged breaches of laws or regulations, result in regulatory action, legal liability, business interruption, increased which could result in increased costs.
costs, damage to our reputation and potentially denial of our licence Ethical misconduct and non-compliance ethical misconduct or to operate.
breaches of applicable laws by our businesses or our employees could Technical integrity failure, natural disasters, extreme weather or a be damaging to our reputation, and could result in litigation, regulatory change in its frequency or severity, human error and other adverse action and penalties.
events or conditions could lead to loss of containment of hydrocarbons Incidents of ethical misconduct or non-compliance with applicable laws or other hazardous materials or constrained availability of resources and regulations, including anti-bribery and corruption and anti-fraud laws, used in our operating activities, as well as fires, explosions or other trade restrictions or other sanctions, could damage our reputation, result personal and process safety incidents, including when drilling wells, in litigation, regulatory action and penalties.
operating facilities and those associated with transportation by road, sea or pipeline.
Treasury and trading activities ineffective oversight of treasury and trading activities could lead to business disruption, financial loss, There can be no certainty that our operating management system or regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation.
other policies and procedures will adequately identify all process safety, personal safety and environmental risks or that all our operating activities We are subject to operational risk around our treasury and trading will be conducted in conformance with these systems.
See Safety and activities in financial and commodity markets, some of which are security on page 43. regulated.
Failure to process, manage and monitor a large number of complex transactions across many markets and currencies while Such events or conditions, including a marine incident, or inability to complying with all regulatory requirements could hinder profitable provide safe environments for our workforce and the public while at our trading opportunities.
There is a risk that a single trader or a group facilities, premises or during transportation, could lead to injuries, loss of traders could act outside of our delegations and controls, leading of life or environmental damage.
As a result we could face regulatory to regulatory intervention and resulting in financial loss, fines and action and legal liability, including penalties and remediation obligations, potentially damaging our reputation.
See Financial statements increased costs and potentially denial of our licence to operate.
Our activities are sometimes conducted in hazardous, remote or environmentally sensitive locations, where the consequences of Reporting failure to accurately report our data could lead to regulatory such events or conditions could be greater than in other locations.
action, legal liability and reputational damage.
Drilling and production challenging operational environments and External reporting of financial and non-financial data, including reserves other uncertainties could impact drilling and production activities.
estimates, relies on the integrity of systems and people.
Failure to report data accurately and in compliance with applicable standards could result Our activities require high levels of investment and are sometimes in regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.
conducted in challenging environments such as those prone to natural disasters and extreme weather, which heightens the risks of technical integrity failure.
The physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas field, and cost of drilling, completing or operating wells is often uncertain.
We may be required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations or stop production because of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and compliance with The Strategic report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf governmental requirements.
by Jens Bertelsen, company secretary on 29 March 2019.
See Glossary 56 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
