Strategic report performance How we manage risk BP manages, monitors and reports on the principal risks and uncertainties BPs group risk team analyses the groups risk profile and maintains the that can impact our ability to deliver our strategy.
These risks are described group risk management system.
Our group audit team provides in the Risk factors on page 55. independent assurance to the group chief executive and board as to whether the groups system of internal control is adequately designed Our management systems, organizational structures, processes, and operating effectively to respond appropriately to the risks that are standards, code of conduct and behaviours together form a system of significant to BP.
internal control that governs how we conduct the business of BP and manage associated risks.
Risk oversight and governance Key risk oversight and governance committees include the following: BPs risk management system BPs risk management system and policy is designed to be a consistent and clear framework for managing and reporting risks from the groups Executive committees operations to management and to the board.
The system seeks to avoid Executive team meeting for strategic and commercial risks.
incidents and maximize business outcomes by allowing us to: Group operations risk committee for health, safety, security, Understand the risk environment, identify the specific risks and assess environment and operations integrity risks.
the potential exposure for BP.
Group financial risk committee for finance, treasury, trading Determine how best to deal with these risks to manage overall and cyber risks.
Group disclosure committee for financial reporting risks.
Manage the identified risks in appropriate ways.
Group people committee for employee risks.
Monitor and seek assurance of the effectiveness of the management of these risks and intervene for improvement where necessary.
Group ethics and compliance committee for legal and regulatory compliance and ethics risks.
Report up the management chain and to the board on a periodic basis on how significant risks are being managed, monitored, assured and Resource commitment meeting for investment decision risks.
the improvements that are being made.
Renewal committee for strategic, commercial and investment decision risks related to new lines of business.
Our risk management activities Day-to-day risk Business and Oversight and Board and its committees management strategic risk governance management BP board.
Identify, Plan, manage Set policy and manage and performance monitor principal Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee.
report risks and assure risks Geopolitical committee.
See BP governance framework on page 69, Board activity in 2018 on page Facilities, Business Executive and Board 70, committee reports on pages 75-86 and Risk management and internal assets and segments and corporate control on page 110. operations functions functions Risk management processes We aim for a consistent basis of measuring risk to: Establish a common understanding of risks on a like-for-like basis, taking into account potential impact and likelihood.
Day-to-day risk management management and staff at our facilities, assets and functions seek to identify and manage risk, promoting safe, Report risks and their management to the appropriate levels compliant and reliable operations.
BP requirements, which take into of the organization.
account applicable laws and regulations, underpin the practical plans Inform prioritization of specific risk management activities and developed to help reduce risk and deliver safe, compliant and reliable resource allocation.
operations as well as greater efficiency and sustainable financial results.
Businesses and functions review significant risks and associated risk Business and strategic risk management our businesses and management activities in alignment with key business processes to help functions integrate risk management into key business processes such enable key decisions to be risk informed.
as strategy, planning, performance management, resource and capital allocation, and project appraisal.
We do this by using a standard As part of BPs annual planning process, the executive team and framework for collating risk data, assessing risk management activities, board review the groups principal risks and uncertainties.
These may making further improvements and in connection with planning new be updated during the year in response to changes in internal and activities.
Oversight and governance throughout the year functional leadership, the executive team, the board and relevant committees Our risk profile provide oversight of how significant risks to BP are identified, assessed The nature of our business operations is long term, resulting in many of and managed.
They help to ensure that risks are governed by relevant our risks being enduring in nature.
Nonetheless, risks can develop and policies and are managed appropriately.
evolve over time and their potential impact or likelihood may vary in response to internal and external events.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 53 We identify high priority risks for particular oversight by the board and We seek to manage this risk through a range of measures, which its various committees in the coming year.
Those identified for 2019 include cyber security standards, security protection tools, ongoing are listed in this section.
These may be updated throughout the year detection and monitoring of threats and testing of cyber response and in response to changes in internal and external circumstances.
We collaborate closely with governments, law oversight and management of other risks, for example technological enforcement agencies and industry peers to understand and respond to change or the transition to a lower carbon economy, is undertaken in new and emerging cyber threats.
We build awareness with our staff, the normal course of business and in the executive team, the board share information on incidents with leadership for continuous learning and relevant committees.
and conduct regular exercises including with the executive team to test response and recovery procedures.
There can be no certainty that our risk management activities will mitigate or prevent these, or other risks, from occurring.
Safety and operational risks Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties we face are set Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks out in Risk factors on page 55.
The nature of the groups operating activities exposes us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks such as incidents Risks for particular oversight by the board and its associated with releases of hydrocarbons when drilling wells, operating committees in 2019 facilities and transporting hydrocarbons.
The risks for particular oversight by the board and its committees in Our operating management system helps us manage these risks and 2019 have been reviewed.
These risks remain the same as for 2018. drive performance improvements.
It sets out the rules and principles which govern key risk management activities such as inspection, Strategic and commercial risks maintenance, testing, business continuity and crisis response planning and competency development.
In addition, we conduct our drilling Financial liquidity activity through a global wells organization in order to promote a External market conditions can impact our financial performance.
Supply consistent approach for designing, constructing and managing wells.
and demand and the prices achieved for our products can be affected by a wide range of factors including political developments, global Security economic conditions and the influence of OPEC.
Hostile acts such as terrorism or piracy could harm our people and We seek to manage this risk through BPs diversified portfolio, our disrupt our operations.
We monitor for emerging threats and financial framework, liquidity stress testing, maintaining a significant vulnerabilities to manage our physical and information security.
cash buffer, regular reviews of market conditions and our planning Our central security team provides guidance and support to our and investment processes.
businesses through a network of regional security advisers who advise Geopolitical and conduct assurance activities with respect to the management of The diverse locations of our operations around the world expose us to a security risks affecting our people and operations.
We continue to wide range of political developments and consequent changes to the monitor threats globally and maintain disaster recovery, crisis and economic and operating environment.
Geopolitical risk is inherent to many business continuity management plans.
regions in which we operate, and heightened political or social tensions or changes in key relationships could adversely affect the group.
Compliance and control risks Ethical misconduct and legal or regulatory non-compliance We seek to manage this risk through development and maintenance Ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable laws or regulations could of relationships with governments and stakeholders and by becoming damage our reputation, adversely affect operational results and trusted partners in each country and region.
In addition, we closely shareholder value, and potentially affect our licence to operate.
monitor events and implement risk mitigation plans where appropriate.
Our code of conduct and our values and behaviours, applicable to all employees, are central to managing this risk.
Additionally, we have The impact of the UKs exit from the EU various group requirements and training covering areas such as anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, competition Following the referendum in 2016, we have been assessing the anti-trust law and international trade regulations.
We seek to keep potential impact of Brexit on BP.
We have been preparing for abreast of new regulations and legislation and plan our response to different scenarios for the UKs exit from the EU but do not believe them.
We offer an independent confidential helpline, OpenTalk, for any of these scenarios will pose a significant risk to our business.
employees, contractors and other third parties.
The boards geopolitical committee discussed this, most recently in January 2019.
Trading non-compliance We continue to monitor developments in this area in line with our In the normal course of business, we are subject to risks around our risk management processes and procedures.
trading activities which could arise from shortcomings or failures in our systems, risk management methodology, internal control processes or employee conduct.
Cyber security The targeted and indiscriminate threats to the security of our digital We have specific operating standards and control processes to manage infrastructure continue to evolve rapidly and are increasingly prevalent these risks, including guidelines specific to trading, and seek to monitor across industries worldwide.
The oil and gas industry is subject to compliance through our dedicated compliance teams.
We also seek to evolving risks from a variety of cyber threat actors, including nation maintain a positive and collaborative relationship with regulators and the states, criminals, terrorists, hacktivists and insiders.
A cyber security industry at large.
breach could disrupt our business, injure people, harm the environment or our assets, or result in legal or regulatory breaches.
See Glossary 54 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
