PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Managing our risks Effective risk management is key to the success of delivering our strategic objectives.
Our risk culture continues to strengthen: it ensures identification, assessment, andmanagement of the principal risks to our business.
We have a defined risk appetite which enables us to effectively Risk Management Framework manage the potential upside and downside risks of our The Board has established a Risk Management Framework to businessstrategy.
ensure there is effective risk governance.
The Board promotes a The primary objectives of risk management at Brewin Dolphin are strong risk culture and expects every employee within the Group toensure that there is: to adhere to the high standards established by the Board.
A strong risk culture so that employees are able to identify, The Board encourages a strong risk culture throughout the assess, manage and report against the risks the business is business by promoting: faced with: A distinct and consistent tone from the top A swift and effective response to incidents in order to Clear accountabilities for those managing risk minimiseimpact: and Prompt sharing and reporting of risk information An appropriate balance between risk and the cost A commitment to ethical principles of control.
Appropriate levels of conduct and considered risk Our approach is to maintain a strong control framework to identify, takingbehaviour monitor and manage the principal risks we face, adequately Recognition of the importance of knowledge, skill and quantify them and ensure we retain sufficient capital in the experience in risk management business to support our strategy for growth.
Members of staff at all levels to escalate events and make We assess our principal risks regularly to ensure that our riskprofile suggestions for improving processes and controls is within our risk appetite which is set by the Board.
Annual risk An acceptance of the importance of continuous management workshops are attended by both the Risk Committee and the ofrisk, including clear accountability for and ownership of Executive Committee.
specificrisks We carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing The benefits of establishing a strong risk culture is evident: with our the Group, including those that would threaten our business employees self-identifying and escalating risk events and potential model, future performance, solvency or liquidity see page 77 issues to mitigate the probability of risks crystallising.
We follow industry practice for risk management through the three We categorise risks into risk groups covering potential impacts to lines of defence model.
The first line is the business that owns and clients, revenue, capital and reputation.
The three risk groupsare: manages the risk, the second line consists of the functions that monitor and facilitate the implementation of effective risk Business risks management practices, and the third line is independent assurance provided by internalaudit.
Financial risks The Board reviews the effectiveness of this Risk Management Operational risks Framework, receiving reports on internal control from the Audit and Risk Committees and debating key risks for the Group following Our risk management process involves the identification more detailed work by the Risk Committee see page 77 for and assessment of specific risks within these risk groups, more information.
mitigation and management of these risks, and monitoring and The key parties involved in the risk management process within the reporting against these risks, which provides the foundation to Group, and their respective responsibilities and an explanation of enable us to deliver against our strategic objectives.
how risk management is structured within the Group, are set out opposite.
Brewin Dolphin 28 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk Management Framework Business risks Risk identification and assessment Top down risk management These are the risks that Risk and Control Self Assessments to identify the key risks for each department and for we do not set the right strategy, business change activities.
Board a material business decision fails or external market Assessment of inherent pre-control and Responsible for ensuring there is an adequate factorsimpact the viability residual risk post-control.
and appropriate risk management framework ofthebusiness.
Sets risk appetite and is responsible for Risk mitigation and management ensuring alignment with the Groups business strategy.
Management of events that have a potential oractual financial, regulatory, operational or Financial risks client impact.
Risk Committee These are the risks facing our Agreeing action plans to mitigate risk issues.
Oversees the Risk Management Framework.
business in terms of inadequate Assists the Board in its responsibilities for the or failed management of integrity of internal control and risk finances and the risk introduced Risk monitoring and reporting managementsystems.
by external factors that could The business community is primarily have a detrimental impact responsible for monitoring risks.
Audit Committee on our cash flow, capital and liquidity.
Assists the Board in gaining assurance as to Risk trends are monitored and analysed.
the integrity of the financial statements and the Key risk indicators are reviewed monthly.
effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Monitors the effectiveness and objectivity of Operational risks internal and external auditors.
Risk assurance This is the risk of loss resulting Internal auditors evaluate the adequacy of from inadequate or failed Risk Management Committee process and systems, and test the operating internal processes, people effectiveness of key controls.
Executive level committee oversight and andsystems, or from monitoring of the adequacy and effectiveness of externalevents.
Monitors current and emerging risks and themes.
Oversees the Groups Policy Framework.
Bottom up risk management Brewin Dolphin 29 www.
co. uk PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Principal Risks Gross Risk Assessment Factors which reduce these risks are provided in the principal risks and uncertainties table.
The risks are shown on an inherent gross basis before mitigating controls.
Business risks 1 Business strategy: 3 Regulatory & legal compliance propositions 4 Change management Financial risks 6 Criminality and resilience 2 Counterparty default 5 Conduct 1 Business strategy: Operational risks propositions 3 Regulatory & legal compliance 2 Counterparty default 4 Change management 5 Conduct 6 Criminality and resilience Impact Responding to risks Financial market uncertainty continues as geopolitical risk remains heightened, particularly in the US and China, and the risk of a nodeal Brexit remains.
We model severe geopolitical scenarios to stress test funds, profit, cash and regulatory capital.
As a UK-based entity, this uncertainty and resulting increased levels of market volatility may impact on some of our principal risks.
We are closely following the Brexit negotiations and we are continuing to assess the ongoing impact of these on our principal risks over time.
We are making preparations to ensure the Group is well positioned to mitigate any adverse risks arising in worst case scenarios.
We have a Brexit Steering Committee in place to coordinate the firms preparation for the UKs withdrawal from the EU.
We have centralised the resources and management of all business and regulatory change initiatives within a Change and Transformation team, enhancing oversight and governance, thereby mitigating the associated risks.
The pipeline of regulatory change continues to be significant.
We have focused resources on implementing new regulatory th requirements for MiFID II, 4 Anti-Money Laundering Directive and GDPR, and we are preparing for the Senior Managers & Certification Regime requirements, which begin to come into effect in December 2019.
To continue to reduce conduct risk, we have developed an application which aligns and aggregates portfolio metrics into a monitoring dashboard.
This enables enhanced oversight by our governance committees, and real time monitoring by our Regional Directors and Heads of Office.
To test our operational resilience, we have conducted crisis management exercises, business continuity and work area recovery site tests, and IT disaster recovery tests.
Our crisis management exercises involve our Crisis Management and Incident Management teams who test our strategic, tactical and operational responses to potential scenarios which could have major business impacts.
Our current focus is on further developing our vendor resilience strategy.
An in-depth risk workshop was conducted with our Risk Committee and Executive Committee members in the period to review the risks facing the Group.
Monitoring of the risk appetite for each of the key risks continues to be developed and includes both a calculated risk score and a qualitative risk owner assessment.
During 2019 we will be focusing on the alignment and aggregation of all risk-related data into a single application, to enable further enhancement of our risk monitoring and reporting.
Brewin Dolphin 30 Annual Report 2018 Probability Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Principal risks and uncertainties The tables below detail the principal risks and uncertainties we have identified.
It is not an exhaustive list of all of the risks the Group faces.
We have a process to regularly report key risk indicators and identify changes in the profile of these principal risks.
We also consider emerging risks as part of this process.
In addition to the principal risks identified, we monitor the external environment and model the potential impact of different potential geopolitical scenarios as part of our stress testing programme.
Key to our strategic objectives Revenue growth Improved efficiency Capital sufficiency RG IE CS Business risks These are the risks that we do not set the right strategy, a material business decision fails, or external market factors impact the viability of the business.
This could include an inability to introduce or enter into new business lines effectively, to expand organically orthrough merger acquisition, or to enhance the effectiveness of our operational infrastructure.
Principal risk Nature and Primary and risk potential impact strategic Examples of Movement in owner s of the risk impact Mitigating factors to reduce risk risk metrics the year Business The risk of our A strategic plan approved by the Board.
Net new 1 RG strategy: service offerings inflows per We use key performance indicators to propositions not meeting the service offering measure the progress and success of our We have evolving needs vs target.
commenced Risk owners: ofour clients, A robust governance structure that development of Private Clients resulting in includes challenge from our independent new propositions Managing Director: existing clients Non-Executive Directors.
Financial Planning leaving and Managing Director: Dedicated resources to develop, test and failureto attract and Investment launch new service offerings.
This Solutions and could result in Distribution reduced revenue.
Managing Director Financial risks These are the risks facing our business in terms of inadequate or failed management of finances and the risk introduced by external factors that could have a detrimental impact on our cash flow, capital and liquidity.
Principal risk Nature and Primary and risk potential impact strategic Examples of Movement in owner s of the risk impact Mitigating factors to reduce risk risk metrics the year Default by our A Financial Risk Management Framework is in place Proportion of Counterparty 2 CS banking which includes managing the Groups exposure to money held default counterparties counterparty credit risk, setting and monitoring per banking Financial risks remain could put our own counterparty limits.
Risk owner: at a similar level to or our clients Diversity across our banking counterparties.
Banking Finance Director last year.
cash deposits counterparty Due diligence is undertaken for all or assets at risk credit ratings.
Changes in A Financial Risk Committee provides oversight of the the risk profile Financial Risk Management Framework.
See page 24 for Our Strategy and page 26 for KPIs for further information in relation to the primary strategic impact.
co. uk PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Operational risks This is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
Principal risk Primary and risk Nature and potential strategic Examples of Movement in owner s impact of the risk impact Mitigating factors to reduce risk risk metrics the year This is the risk that Compliance and Legal functions monitor and We have built Regulatory 3 CS we are not compliant oversee fulfilment of our regulatory and dashboards to & legal with all applicable  and interactions with monitor each compliance The risk continues regulation and ourkey regulators.
regulatory risk Risk owner: to be driven by legislation, which could which include We have an established control environment, Chief Risk Officer new regulatory lead to regulatory assessment of monitoring processes and governance in place requirements.
the control to identify issues and ensure any required actions environment, are completed.
regulatory interaction, issues and breaches.
Change The risk that business Change management is centralised within a Project status 4 IE management and regulatory Change and Transformation team.
taking into changes are not account risks, A Change and Transformation Steering Group We have embarked delivered.
This could issues, with senior representatives across the business on new initiatives to Risk owners: restrict the firms resourcing reviews prioritisation, progress, issues and risks achieve strategic Chief Risk abilityto achieve its and vendor across the change programme.
objectives see Officer and Chief strategic objectives deliverables.
Operating Officer of revenue growth and Increased resources operational efficiency.
and enhanced governance processes have been put in place inresponse to theincreased risk that the new initiatives present.
Conduct This is the risk of Tone from the top sets a culture which puts Transaction 5 CS not delivering fair delivering fair outcomes for clients at the core analysis.
of the Groups activities ethos.
Client We have This could create a A conduct risk framework sets our approach complaints.
implemented Risk owner: financial impact for to conduct risk governance and the ongoing Asset enhanced Investment both clients and assessment, monitoring against key metrics allocation.
monitoring and Solutions and the firm.
and reporting of conduct risk.
oversight of Distribution A conduct risk dashboard is in place, enabling this risk through Managing Director detailed monitoring and oversight of conduct risk implementation of at an individual employee level.
an application which aggregates portfolio A risk-based client on-boarding process which metrics into a ensures that we understand our clients needs dashboard used and attitudes to risk.
A quality assurance process to identify and address any instances where the best outcomes for clients are not achieved.
Robust investment governance supported by: an investment governance committee: a dedicated research department to set the Groups asset allocation framework: and a restricted assets policy to prevent investment in unsuitable assets.
Criminality The increasing external We have a dedicated risk management function Fraud 6 CS and resilience risk of criminality and within Information Technology, which assesses attempts.
the difficulty of and validates the design and effectiveness of the System We have complete prevention technology controls that we employ to protect vulnerabilities.
implemented Risk owner: are recognised, as the our technology infrastructure.
Security enhancements to Chief Risk Officer volume and Dedicated Information Security and Data breaches.
our controls in sophistication of Protection team report directly to the Chief response to the information security RiskOfficer.
continued external threats cyber risk and Regular testing of our business continuity plans.
threat to reduce fraud attempts across the risk.
Crisis management scenarios are undertaken industries increase.
with external providers to test the roles and This could result in the responsibilities of the crisis management theft of data or money.
Brewin Dolphin 32 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Viability statement Going concern The Directors have assessed the outlook of the Group over The Groups business activities, performance and position, a longer period than the 12 months required by the going together with the factors likely to affect its future development are concern statement in accordance with the UK Corporate set out in the Chairmans Statement, the Strategic Report and the Governance Code.
report of the Risk Committee.
The assessment is based on the Groups Medium Term Plan The Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its MTP, the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its ICAAP and the evaluation of the Groups principal risks and financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity uncertainties see page 31, including those risks that could risk are described in note 27 to the Financial Statements.
threaten its business model, future performance or solvency.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its The Group maintains a five-year MTP as part of its corporate business risks successfully.
The Groups forecasts and projections, planning process, which is a financial articulation of the Groups taking account of possible adverse changes in trading strategy.
The financial forecasting model is predicated on a performance, show that the Group has adequate resources to detailed year-one budget and higher level forecasts for years continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, theDirectors continue to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of the Financial Statements.
In forming As a matter of good practice and as part of the ICAAP required by their view, theDirectors have considered the Groups prospects the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the Group performs a for a period of at least 12 months from the date on which the range of stress tests including reverse stress tests.
These assess Financial Statements are approved.
the Groups ability to withstand a market-wide stress, a Groupspecific idiosyncratic stress and a combined stress taking into account both market-wide and Group-specific events.
The stress tests are derived through discussions with senior management, after considering the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, and the scenarios involved are refreshed on an annual basis to ensure they remain current.
The stress tests enable the Group to model the impact of a variety of external and internal events on the MTP: to identify the potential impact of stress events on the Groups income, costs, cash flow and capital: and the Board to assess the effectiveness of any management actions that may be taken to mitigate the impact of the stress events.
The reverse stress tests allow the Board to assess scenarios and circumstances that would render its business model unviable.
This enables the identification of potential business vulnerabilities and the development of potentially mitigating actions.
Throughout the year the Group has continued to evaluate the potential risks and opportunities of the UK leaving the European Union.
Although there still remains uncertainty on the final outcome of the negotiations, a range of potential scenarios have been considered and the potential impacts on our clients, the Group and the wider industry have been assessed.
This analysis does not present any reason to believe the Group will not remain viable over the longer term.
The Group will continue to engage with industry bodies, regulators and clients to further understand these impacts and manage the associated risks.
Following the assessment of the above, the Board concluded that the Viability Statement should cover a period of five years.
While the Directors have no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over a longer period, this period has been chosen to be consistent with the MTP used as part of the Groups corporate planning process.
Taking account of the Groups current position and principal risks and the Boards assessment of the Groups prospects, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a period of at least five years.
