Additional disclosures Group risk factors Business execution and supply chain risks Risk: Competition from illicit trade.
Description Illicit trade and tobacco trafficking in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine products and locally manufactured products on which applicable taxes are evaded represent a significant and growing threat to the legitimate tobacco industry.
Factors such as increasing levels of taxation, price increases, economic downturn, lack of law enforcement, appropriate penalties and weak border control are encouraging more adult tobacco consumers to switch to illegal cheaper tobacco products and providing greater rewards for counterfeiters and smugglers.
Regulatory restrictions such as plain packaging or graphic health warnings, display bans, taste or ingredient restrictions and increased compliance costs further disadvantage legitimate industry participants by providing competitive advantages to illicit manufacturers and distributors of illicit tobacco products.
Impact Illicit trade can have an adverse effect on the Groups overall sales volume and may restrict the ability to increase selling prices.
Illicit trade can also damage brand equity and reputation, which could undermine the Groups investment in trade marketing and distribution.
These factors in turn could reduce profits and have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and financial conditions.
Risk: Geopolitical tensions that have the potential to disrupt the Groups business in multiple markets.
Description The Groups operations and financial condition are influenced by the economic and political situations in the markets and regions in which it has operations, which are often unpredictable and outside of its control.
Some markets in which the Group operates face the threat of civil unrest and can be subject to frequent changes in regime.
In others, there is a risk of terrorism, conflict, war, organised crime or other criminal activity.
The Group is also exposed to economic policy changes in jurisdictions in which it operates.
In addition, some markets maintain trade barriers or adopt policies that favour domestic producers, preventing or restricting the Groups sales.
Impact Deterioration of socio-economic or political conditions could potentially lead to loss of life or loss of assets that limit or eliminate the Groups access to particular markets or may disrupt the Groups operations, such as its supply chain, or manufacturing or distribution capabilities.
Such disruption may result in increased costs due to the need for more complex supply chain arrangements, to build new facilities or to maintain inefficient facilities, or in a reduction of the Groups sales volume.
Risk: Disruption to the Groups data and information technology systems, including by cyber-attack or the malicious manipulation or disclosure of confidential information.
Description The Group increasingly relies on data and information technology systems for its internal communications, controls, reporting and relations with customers and suppliers.
Some of these systems are managed by third-party service providers.
A significant disruption of the Groups systems, including those managed by third-party service providers, due to computer viruses, cyber threats, malicious intrusions or unintended or malicious behaviour by employees, contractors or services providers could affect the Groups communications and operations.
In addition, such disruption may compromise the integrity of information and result in the inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, or may lead to false or misleading statements being made about the Group.
Impact Any disruption to technology systems related to the Groups operations could adversely affect its business, results of operation, financial condition and reputation.
Security breaches and the loss of data or operational capacity may disrupt relationships throughout the supply chain, expose the Group to liability and lead to increased costs.
The disclosure of trade secrets or other commercially sensitive information may provide competitors with a competitive advantage resulting in competitive or operational damage to the Group.
The disclosure of confidential information about the Groups employees, customers, suppliers or other third parties could also expose the Group to liability.
Failure to effectively prevent or respond to a major breach or cyber-attack may also subject the Group to significant reputational damage.
270 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk: Failure to meet current or future PRRPs demand due to supply chain failures.
Description The PRRPs supply chain is a multi-tiered and complex environment with reliance on multiple factors, such as third-party suppliers ability to upscale production in order to meet demand while maintaining product quality, dependency on single suppliers at various points in the chain and the Groups ability to build adequate consumables production capacity in line with product demand.
Given the developing nature of the PRRPs portfolio, there is also an enhanced risk that some products may not meet product quality standards or may be subject to regulatory changes, leading to product recalls, which we have experienced in the past.
In addition, the PRRPs supply chain may be vulnerable to changes in local legislation related to liquid nicotine that could increase import duties.
Furthermore, the PRRPs supply chain includes the development of sensitive trade secrets jointly with external design partners, which carries the risk of exposure of innovations to competitors.
Impact Vulnerabilities in the PRRPs supply chain may impact the Groups ability to maintain supply and meet the current and future demand requirements across the PRRPs portfolio, potentially resulting in significant reputational harm and financial impact that may negatively affect the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
The design of PRRPs devices may also prevent the scaling of commercial manufacturing, which will either restrict supply or increase the costs of production.
In addition, changes in local legislation related to liquid nicotine import duties may increase PRRPs production costs, which may increase end market pricing.
Furthermore, the exposure of sensitive trade secrets can lead to competitive disadvantages and further negatively impact the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
Description The Group relies on transactions with a variety of financial counterparties to manage the Groups business and financial risks.
In the event that any of these counterparties fails, payments due from such counterparty, such as under hedging or insurance contracts, may not be recovered.
In addition, failure of a transactional banking party may lead to the loss of cash balances and disruption to payment systems involving such counterparty.
Impact The inability to recover payments due from one or more failed financial counterparties or the loss of cash balances may cause significant financial loss and have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial condition and financial risk profile.
In addition, the loss of cash balances or a disruption to payment systems may cause disruption to the Groups ongoing operations and ability to pay its creditors and suppliers.
Risk: Exposure to unavailability of and price volatility in raw materials and increased costs of employment.
Description The availability and price of various commodities required in the manufacture of the Groups products fluctuate.
Raw materials and other inputs used in the Groups business, such as wood pulp and energy, are commodities that are subject to price volatility caused by numerous factors, including political influence, market fluctuations and natural disasters.
Similarly, the Group is exposed to the risk of an increase above inflation in employment costs, including due to governmental action to introduce or increase minimum wages.
Employment and health care law changes may also increase the cost of provided health care and other employment benefits expenses.
Impact Restricted availability and price volatility of commodities may result in supply shortages and unexpected increases in costs for raw materials and packaging for the Groups products, which may affect the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
Similarly, the Groups profitability may be affected by increases in overall employment costs.
The Group may not be able to increase prices to offset increased costs without suffering reduced sales volume and revenue.
In the absence of compensating for increased costs through pricing, significant increases in raw material, packaging and employment costs above inflation will impact product margins, leading to lower profits and negatively affecting the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 271 Additional disclosures Group risk factors continued Business Execution and Supply Chain Risks continued Risk: Failure to retain key personnel or to attract and retain skilled talent.
Description The Group relies on a number of highly experienced employees with detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry and the Groups business.
Similarly, the Group is dependent on its ability to identify, attract, develop and retain such qualified personnel in the future.
Furthermore, broader economic trends may impact the Groups ability to retain key employees and may increase competition for highly talented employees, potentially resulting in the loss of experienced employees.
Impact If the Group is unable to retain its existing key employees or to attract and retain skilled talent in the future, critical positions may be left vacant, which could adversely impact the delivery of strategic objectives, which could ultimately impact the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
High voluntary employee turnover may also reduce organisational performance and productivity, which may have a further adverse impact on the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
Risk: Disruption to the supply chain and distribution channels.
Description The Group has an increasingly global approach to managing its supply chain and distribution channels and is exposed to the risk of disruption to any aspect of the Groups supply chain, to suppliers operations or to distribution channels, and the deterioration in the financial condition of a trading partner.
Such disruption may be caused by a major fire, violent weather conditions or other natural disasters that affect manufacturing or other facilities of the Groups operating subsidiaries or those of their suppliers and distributors.
Although the Group seeks to maintain insurance coverage against damage resulting from natural disasters, in certain of the geographic areas where the Group operates such coverage may not be obtainable on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.
Coverage may be subject to limitations or the Group may be unable to recover damages from its insurers.
Disruption may also be caused by a deterioration in labour or union relations, disputes or work stoppages or other labour-related developments within the Group or its suppliers and distributors.
In addition, the Groups operating subsidiaries may not be able to establish or maintain relationships on favourable commercial terms with their suppliers and distributors.
In some markets, distribution of the Groups products is through third-party monopoly channels, often licensed by governments.
The Group may be unable to renew these third-party supplier and distribution agreements on satisfactory terms for numerous reasons, including government regulations.
Furthermore, there are some product categories for which the Group does not have spare production capacity or where substitution between different production plants is very difficult.
Consolidation of global suppliers and certain distributors that control large geographies may reduce the Groups availability of alternatives and negatively impact the Groups negotiating power with key suppliers and distributors.
These risks are particularly relevant in jurisdictions where the Groups manufacturing facilities are more concentrated or for certain product categories where production is more centralised.
Impact Any disruption to the Groups supply chain and distribution channels could have an adverse effect on the results of operations and financial conditions of the Group through failures to meet shipment demand, contract disputes, increased costs and loss of market share.
272 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk: Exposure to product contamination.
Description The Group may experience product contamination, whether by accident or deliberate malicious intent, during supply chain or manufacturing processes, or may otherwise fail to comply with the Groups quality standards.
Impact Product contamination may expose the Group to significant costs associated with recalling products from the market or temporarily ceasing production.
In addition, adult tobacco consumers may lose confidence in the specific brand affected by the contamination, resulting in reputational damage and a loss of sales volume and market share.
In addition, the Group could be subject to liability and costs associated with civil and criminal actions as well as regulatory sanctions brought in connection with a contamination of the Groups products.
Each of these results may in turn have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
Risk: Inability to obtain adequate supplies of tobacco leaf.
Description The Group purchases significant volumes of packed leaf each year.
Tobacco leaf supplies are impacted by a variety of factors, including weather conditions, drought, flood and other natural disasters, growing conditions, diseases causing crop failure, climate change and local planting decisions.
Tobacco production in certain countries is also subject to a variety of controls, including regulation affecting farming and production control programmes, and to competition for land use from other agriculture products.
Such controls and competition can further constrain the production of tobacco leaf, raising prices and reducing supply.
Impact Restricted availability of tobacco leaf may impact the quality of the Groups products to a level that may be perceptible by consumers and impact the Groups ability to deliver on consumer needs.
Accordingly, the reduction of tobacco leaf supply may impact supply and demand of the Groups products and have a negative impact on results of operations.
Higher tobacco leaf prices may also increase the Groups costs for raw materials, which may have an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.
Risk: Failure to successfully design, implement and sustain an integrated operating model.
Description The Group aims to improve profitability and productivity through supply chain improvements and the implementation of an integrated operating model and organisational structure, including standardisation of processes and centralised back-office services.
Impact Failure by the Group to successfully design, implement and sustain the integrated operating model and organisational structure could lead to the failure to realise anticipated benefits, increased costs, disruption to operations, decreased trading performance and reduced market share.
These results could in turn reduce profitability and funds available for investment by the Group in long-term growth opportunities.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 273 Additional disclosures Group risk factors continued Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Risk: Exposure to increasing tobacco control and regulation affecting the Groups products, prices, sales and marketing.
Description The advertising, sale and consumption of tobacco products have been, and continue to be, subject to increasingly stringent restrictions, introduced by both regulation, including tax increases, and voluntary agreements.
Most regulations or potential regulatory initiatives can be categorised as follows: Place: including regulations restricting smoking in private, public and work places e. g. public place smoking and vaping bans : Product: including regulations on the use of, or costly testing and measuring requirements for, ingredients, product design and attributes e. g. ceilings regarding tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yields, as well as restrictions on flavours, including menthol : product safety regulations, electrical safety regulations and reduced cigarette ignition propensity: Packaging and labelling: including regulations on health warnings and other government-mandated messages e. g. in respect of content, positioning, size and rotation : restrictions on the use of certain descriptors and brand names: product disclosure requirements e. g. in relation to ingredients and emissions : requirements on pack shape, size, weight and colour and mandatory plain packaging: Sponsorship, promotion and advertising: including partial or total bans on advertising, marketing, promotions and sponsorship and restrictions on brand sharing and using tobacco branding on non-tobacco products so called stretching : Purchase: including regulations on the manner in which products are sold, such as type of outlet e. g. supermarkets and vending machines and how they are sold e. g. above the counter versus beneath the counter : and Price: including regulations which have implications on the prices that manufacturers can charge for their tobacco products e. g. excise taxes and minimum prices.
The Group believes that further tobacco-control regulation is inevitable over the medium term in many of the Groups markets, and is driven by tobacco control activities undertaken by national governments and non-governmental organisations, as well as guidelines and protocols derived from the World Health Organizations Framework Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC.
The FCTC has led to increased efforts by tobacco control advocates and public health organisations to reduce the supply of, and demand for, tobacco products, particularly those containing menthol and other flavours, and to encourage governments to further regulate the tobacco industry.
Many of the measures outlined in the FCTC have been or are being implemented by means of national legislation in many markets in which the Group operates.
For example, the EU has adopted the revised Tobacco and Related Products Directive TPD2, which, among other things, bans the use of characterising flavours, including menthol, in cigarettes from 2020, in line with numerous other jurisdictions banning or restricting the use of menthol in tobacco products.
In March 2018, the FDA published its Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking ANPRM entitled Regulation of Flavors in Tobacco Products to seek public comment on the role that flavours including menthol in tobacco products play in attracting youth.
In November 2018, the FDA announced the acceleration of proposed rulemaking to seek a ban on menthol in combustible tobacco products, including cigarettes.
Bans or restrictions on the use of flavoured tobacco products and menthol have also been introduced, and may be introduced in the future, at a municipal or state level in the US without undergoing federal rulemaking procedures.
Furthermore, various national or international regulatory regimes may seek to require the reduction of nicotine levels in tobacco products.
In March 2018, the FDA published its ANPRM titled Tobacco Product Standard for Nicotine Level of Combusted Cigarettes and invited interested parties to submit comments on, among other issues, maximum nicotine limits and whether any maximum nicotine level should apply to combustible tobacco products.
Several countries, including France, Belgium and Pakistan, have sought or are seeking to prohibit certain brands and brand variants or prohibit messaging on cigarette packaging that promotes a brand or usage.
Please refer to pages 285 to 288 for details of tobacco and nicotine regulatory regimes under which the Groups businesses operate.
Impact Existing and future tobacco control and regulation could adversely affect volume and profits as a result of restrictions on the Groups ability to sell its existing products or brands, including due to the loss of provisional sales approvals for newer existing products, such as PRRPs.
Impediments to maintaining or building brand equity, could also adversely impact volume and profits.
In addition, new regulation could lead to greater complexity and higher production and compliance costs.
New product specifications may have a negative impact on sales volumes as consumers seek alternatives in illicit trade.
All these effects may have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and financial conditions.
The Groups share price has also experienced, and could in the future experience, shocks on the announcement or enactment of restrictive regulation.
In particular, through the acquisition of RAI, the Group acquired the Newport brand, the leading menthol cigarette brand in the US, the Groups largest single market.
The sales of Newport, together with the other menthol brands of the Groups operating subsidiaries, represent a significant portion of the Groups total net sales.
Any action by the FDA or any other governmental authority banning or materially restricting the use of menthol in tobacco products could have a significant negative impact on sales volumes of the Newport brand and the Groups other menthol products, which would in turn have an adverse effect on the results of operations and financial position of the Group.
Similarly, regulations on nicotine levels in cigarettes and in other products that are being considered in a number of jurisdictions in which the Group operates could have a negative impact on sales volumes of the Groups products in the relevant jurisdictions.
In addition, taking into account the significant number of regulations that may apply to the Groups businesses across the world, the Group is and may in the future be subject to claims for breach of such regulations.
Even when proven untrue, there are often financial costs and reputational impacts in defending against such claims.
274 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk: Significant and or unexpected increases or structural changes in tobacco-related taxes.
Description Tobacco products are subject to high levels of taxation, including excise taxes, sales taxes, import duties and levies in most markets in which the Group operates.
In many of these markets, taxes are generally increasing, but the rate of increase varies between markets and between different types of tobacco products.
Increases in, or the introduction of new, tobacco-related taxes may be caused by a number of factors, including fiscal pressures, health policy objectives and increased lobbying pressure from anti-tobacco advocates.
Impact Significant or unexpected increases in, or the introduction of new, tobacco-related taxes or minimum retail selling prices, changes in relative tax rates for different tobacco products or adjustments to excise may result in the need for the Group to absorb such tax increases due to limits in its ability to increase prices, an alteration in the sales mix in favour of value-for-money brands or products, or growth in illicit trade, each of which could impact pricing, sales volume and profit for the Groups products.
Risk: Failure to comply with health and safety and environmental laws.
Description The Group is subject to a variety of laws, regulations and operational standards relating to health and safety and the environment.
The Group may fail to assess certain risks and implement the right level of control measures or to maintain adequate standards of health and safety or environmental compliance, which could cause injury, ill health, disability or loss of life to employees, contractors or members of the public, or harm to the natural environment and local communities in which the Group operates.
Insufficient information, instruction and training in the relevant areas and a lack of knowledge of the existence and or requirements of relevant regulations, or a failure to monitor, assess and implement the requirements of new or modified legislation, may increase these risks.
Impact Any failure by the Group to comply with applicable health and safety or environmental laws, or the exposure to the consequences of a perceived failure, could result in business disruption, reputational damage, difficulties in recruiting and retaining staff, increased insurance costs, consequential losses, the obligation to install or upgrade costly pollution control equipment, loss of value of the Groups assets, remedial costs and damages, fines and penalties as well as civil or criminal liability.
Each of these results could in turn adversely impact the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
Risk: Exposure to unfavourable tax rulings.
Description The Group is subject to tax laws in a variety of jurisdictions.
The Groups interpretation and application of the tax laws could differ from those of the relevant tax authority, which may subject the Group to claims for breach of such laws, including for late or incorrect filings or for misinterpretation of rules.
Tax authorities in a variety of jurisdictions have assessed, and may in the future assess, the Group for historical tax claims, including interest and penalties, arising from disputed areas of tax law.
The Group is currently party to tax disputes in a number of jurisdictions, some of which involve claims for amounts in the hundreds of millions of pounds sterling.
Please refer to note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of contingent liabilities applicable to the Group.
Impact The Groups failure to comply with the relevant tax authoritys interpretation and application of the tax laws could result in significant financial and legal penalties, including the payment of additional taxes, fines and interest in the event of an unfavourable ruling by a tax authority in a disputed area, as well as the payment of dispute costs.
Disruption to the business could occur as a result of managements time being diverted away from business matters.
Each of these results could negatively affect the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 275 Additional disclosures Group risk factors continued Legal, regulatory and compliance risks continued Risk: Adverse implications of proposed EU legislation on single-use plastics that would restrict the use of tobacco filters and plastic components in the Groups products.
Description The EU is in the final stages of adopting a Directive on single-use plastics which, among other products, will target tobacco filters containing plastic.
Under the Directive, the Group may become subject to: Extended Producer Responsibility EPR schemes, requiring the Group to cover the costs of collecting, transporting, treating and clean-up of cigarette filters: Obligations to finance consumer awareness campaigns: and Products marking requirements.
The Directive could affect the Groups FMC, roll-your-own, Fine Cut and THP product categories.
It is expected that the final text of the Directive will be published by 30 June 2019.
In addition, the EU Commission may issue guidelines for the EPR schemes prior to the anticipated implementation deadline on 5 January 2023 and adopt an Implementing Act stipulating the dimensions, position and content of required product markings in the first half of 2020.
When implementing the Directive, member states may further expand its scope under their respective laws, which may subject the Group to additional regulation and financial obligations.
Impact The financial implications of the proposed EPR schemes and financing obligations for consumer awareness programmes may have an adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and results of operation.
In addition, new product marking requirements may increase production costs and have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
If significant space is appropriated on the packaging of some of the Groups products, this may also be an impediment to maintaining or building brand equity of the Groups products, which may in turn have a negative impact on the Groups sales volume.
Risk: Exposure to tobacco-related and other litigation.
Description The Group is involved in litigation related to its tobacco products, including legal and regulatory actions, proceedings and claims, brought against it in a number of jurisdictions.
Claims brought against the Group may be based on personal injury both individual claims and classactions, economic loss arising from the treatment of smoking and health-related diseases such as medical recoupment claims brought by local governments, negligence, strict liability in tort, design defect, failure to warn, fraud, misrepresentation, deceptive and unfair trade practices, conspiracy, medical monitoring and violations of antitrust and racketeering laws.
Certain actions, such as certain of those in the US and Canada, involve claims in the tens or hundreds of billions of pounds sterling.
The Group is also involved in proceedings that are not directly related to its tobacco products, including proceedings based on environmental pollution claims.
Additional legal and regulatory actions, proceedings and claims may be brought against the Group in the future.
Impact The Groups consolidated results of operations and financial position could be materially affected by any unfavourable outcome of certain pending or future litigation.
The Group could be exposed to substantial liability, which may take the form of ongoing payments.
Whether successful or not, the costs of the Groups involvement in litigation could materially increase due to costs associated with bringing proceedings and defending claims, which may also cause operational and strategic disruption by diverting management time away from business matters.
Liabilities and costs in connection with litigation could result in bankruptcy of one or more Group entities, which, in turn, could cause a material reduction in the Groups sales volume and profits.
Any negative publicity resulting from these claims may also adversely affect the Groups reputation.
Risk: Unexpected legislative changes to corporate income tax laws.
Description The Group is subject to corporate income tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
These laws frequently change on a prospective or retroactive basis.
Impact Legislative changes to corporate income tax laws and regulations may have an adverse impact on the Groups corporate income tax liabilities and may lead to a material increase of the Groups overall tax rate.
This could in turn negatively affect the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
276 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk: Exposure to potential liability under competition or antitrust laws.
Description According to the Groups internal estimates, the Group is a market leader by volume in a number of countries in which it operates and is one of a small number of tobacco companies in certain other markets in which it operates.
As a result, the Group may fail to comply with competition or antitrust laws and may be subject to investigation for alleged abuse of its position in markets in which it has significant market share or for alleged collusion with other market participants.
Impact Failure by the Group to comply with competition or antitrust laws and investigations for violation of such laws may result in significant legal liability, fines, penalties and or damages actions, criminal sanctions against the Group, its officers and employees, increased costs, prohibitions on conduct of the Groups business, forced divestment of brands and businesses or parts of businesses to competitors, director disqualifications and commercial agreements being held void.
The Group may face increased public scrutiny and the investigation or imposition of sanctions by antitrust regulation agencies for violations of competition regimes which may subject the Group to reputational damage and loss of goodwill.
Risk: Failure to establish and maintain adequate controls and procedures to comply with applicable securities, corporate governance and compliance regulations.
Description The Groups operations are subject to a range of rules and regulations around the world.
These include US securities, corporate governance and compliance laws and regulations such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, which applies to the Groups worldwide activities.
While the Group continuously seeks to improve its systems of internal controls and to remedy any weaknesses identified, there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures will be followed at all times or effectively detect and prevent violations of applicable laws.
In addition, the Group is subject to increasingly stringent reporting obligations under the UK regulations and the UKs Financial Reporting Councils new reporting regime.
Impact The increased scope and complexity of applicable regulations to which the Group is subject may lead to higher costs for compliance.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations may result in significant legal liability, fines, penalties, and or damages actions, criminal sanctions against the Group, its officers and employees, and damage to the Groups reputation.
Non-compliance with such regulations could also lead to a loss of the Groups listing on one or more stock exchanges.
Risk: Loss of confidential information, including through manipulation of data by employees, and failure to comply with the European General Data Protection Regulation and other privacy laws.
Description Unintended or malicious behaviour by employees, contractors, service providers and others using or managing the Groups confidential information may affect the Groups communications and operations and result in the disclosure of such information.
The lack of infrastructure or application resilience, slow or insufficient disaster recovery service levels or the installation of new systems may increase the possibility that data, including confidential, personal or other sensitive information, stored or communicated by IT systems may be corrupted, lost or disclosed.
Various privacy laws, particularly the European General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, forbid the disclosure of confidential information and, among other things, impose on the Group an obligation to notify the supervisory authority of a breach of confidential information.
Fraudulent abuse of data and the inappropriate disclosure of confidential information may cause the Group to fail to meet statutory or regulatory requirements regarding data protection, such as the GDPR.
The enforcement of regulations like the GDPR may also encourage compliance regimes and authorities in other jurisdictions in which the Group operates to enact similar regulations which would further increase these risks.
Impact The loss of confidential information may result in civil or criminal legal liability and prosecution by enforcement bodies, which may subject the Group to the imposition of material fines and or penalties and the costs associated with defending these claims.
In addition, failure to comply with the GDPR or other privacy laws may result in the relevant regulator ordering the Group to cease processing activities, which would result in a significant operational disruption.
Inappropriate disclosure of confidential information or violation of the GDPR or other privacy laws may also result in significant reputational harm and public scrutiny, a loss of investor confidence and reduced third-party reliance on the Groups information technology systems.
In addition, restoration and remediation of disclosed confidential information may be costly, difficult or even impossible.
These consequences may adversely impact the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 277 Additional disclosures Group risk factors continued Legal, regulatory and compliance risks continued Risk: Failure to comply with product regulations due to uncertainty surrounding the proper interpretation and application of those regulations.
Description The interpretation and application of regulations concerning the Groups products, such as TPD2, may be subject to debate and uncertainty.
This includes uncertainty over product classifications and restrictions on advertising.
In particular with respect to the developing category of PRRPs, which has grown in size and complexity in a relatively short period of time, a consensus framework for the interpretation and application of existing regulation, such as the rules concerning nicotine-containing liquids used in vapour products, has yet to emerge.
The continuously changing and evolving landscape of regulation concerning the Groups products contributes to the uncertainty surrounding interpretation and application and creates a risk that the Group may misinterpret or fail to comply with developing regulations in the various jurisdictions in which it operates, or becomes subject to enforcement actions from regulators.
With the continuous changing of product cycle plans, expansion to new markets and innovations, there is a risk that such changes and launches fail to comply with the relevant regulations, including pre-approval and or pre-registration requirements.
For example, some governments have intentionally banned or are seeking to ban novel tobacco products and products containing nicotine, while others would need to amend their existing legislation to permit their sale.
Even in countries where the sale of such products is currently permitted, some governments have adopted, or are seeking to adopt, bans on PRRPs or restrictions on certain flavours.
Impact The significant number of emerging regulations and the uncertainty surrounding their interpretation and application may subject the Group to claims for breach of such regulations.
Financial costs of such enforcement actions include financial penalties, product recalls and litigation costs, and entail a significant risk of adverse publicity and damage to the Groups reputation and goodwill.
Risk: Failure to uphold high standards of corporate behaviour, including under anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws.
Description The Group expects its employees to uphold a high standard of corporate behaviour and is subject to various anti-corruption laws and regulations Anti-Corruption Laws that generally prohibit its employees, suppliers, distributors and agents from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity.
The Groups employees may fail to meet this standard or may violate applicable Anti-Corruption Laws.
For example, the Group is investigating, through external legal advisers, allegations of misconduct and is liaising with the UK Serious Fraud Office SFO and other relevant authorities.
It was announced in August 2017 that the SFO had opened an investigation in relation to the Company, its subsidiaries and associated persons.
The Group continues to cooperate with the SFOs investigation and a sub-Committee of the Board has oversight of these matters.
The outcomes will be decided by the relevant authorities or, if necessary, the courts.
It is too early to predict the outcomes, but these could include the prosecution of individuals and or of a Group company or companies.
Accordingly, the potential for fines, penalties or other consequences cannot currently be assessed.
As the investigation is ongoing, it is not yet possible to identify the timescale in which these matters might be resolved.
Impact Failure of the Group to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws or to deploy and maintain robust internal processes and policies could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against the Group and its officers and employees, increased costs, prohibitions or other limitations on the conduct of the Groups business and reputational harm and may subject the Group to claims for breach of such regulations.
Even when proven untrue, there are often financial costs, time demands and reputational impacts associated with investigating and defending against such claims, in particular accusations disseminated broadly through social media.
278 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk: Imposition of sanctions under sanctions regimes or similar international, regional or national measures.
Description National and international sanctions regimes or similar international, regional or national measures may affect jurisdictions in which the Group operates or third parties with which it may have commercial relationships.
In particular, the Group has operations in a number of countries that are subject to various sanctions, including Iran, Sudan and Syria.
Operations in these countries expose the Group to the risk of significant financial costs and disruption in operations that may be difficult or impossible to predict or avoid or the activities could become commercially and or operationally unviable.
National and international sanctions regimes may also affect third parties with which the Group has commercial relationships and could lead to supply and payment chain disruptions.
Impact As a result of the limitations imposed by sanctions, it may become commercially and or operationally unviable for the Group to operate in certain jurisdictions and the Group may be required to exit existing operations in such jurisdictions.
The Group may also experience difficulty in sourcing materials or importing products and be exposed to increased costs.
In addition, the costs of complying with sanctions may increase as a result of changes to existing sanctions regimes.
Any failure to comply with sanctions regimes or similar international, regional or national measures may result in significant legal liability, fines and or penalties, criminal sanctions against the Group, its officers and employees, damage to commercial relationships and reputational harm.
Reputational harm may result regardless of whether the Group complies with imposed sanctions.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 279 Additional disclosures Group risk factors continued Economic and financial risks Risk: Foreign exchange rate exposures.
Description The Groups reporting currency is the pound sterling.
The Group is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates affecting the translation of net assets and earned profits of overseas subsidiaries into the Groups reporting currency.
These translational exposures are not normally hedged.
Exposures also arise from the foreign currency denominated trading transactions undertaken by subsidiaries and dividend flows.
Where not offset by opposing flows, these exposures are generally hedged according to internal policies, but hedging of exposure to certain currencies might not be possible due to exchange controls, limited currency availability or prohibitive costs, and errors in hedging may occur.
Fiscal policy divergence in relation to interest rates between key markets may also increase these risks.
Impact During periods of exchange rate volatility, the impact of exchange rates on the Groups results of operations and financial condition can be significant.
Fluctuations in exchange rates of key currencies against the pound sterling may result in volatility in the Groups reported earnings per share, cash flow and balance sheet.
Furthermore, the dividend paid by the Group may be impacted if the payout ratio is not adjusted.
Differences in translation between earnings and net debt may also affect key ratios used by credit rating agencies, which may have an adverse effect on the Groups credit ratings.
In addition, volatility and or increased costs in the Groups business due to transactional foreign exchange rate exposures may adversely affect operating margins and profitability and attempts to increase prices to offset such increases could adversely impact sales volumes.
Risk: Inability to obtain price increases and exposure to risks from excessive price increases and value chain erosion.
Description Annual manufacturers price increases are among the key drivers in increasing market profitability.
However, the Group has in the past been, and may in the future be, unable to obtain such price increases as a result of: increased regulation: increased competition from illicit trade: stretched consumer affordability arising from deteriorating political and economic conditions and rising prices: sharp increases or changes in excise structures: and competitors pricing.
As the PRRP market continues to develop, the Group may face erosion in the value chain for PRRPs through lower market prices, excise taxes, high retail trade margins or high production costs that make PRRPs less competitive versus combustible tobacco products.
In addition, the Group faces the risk that price increases it has conducted in the past, and may conduct in the future, may be excessive and not find adequate adult tobacco consumer acceptance.
Impact If the Group is unable to obtain price increases or adversely affected by impacts of excessive price increases, it may be unable to achieve its strategic growth metrics, have fewer funds to invest in growth opportunities, and, in the case of excessive price increases, be faced with quicker reductions in sales volumes than anticipated due to accelerated market decline, down-trading switching to a cheaper brand and increased illicit trade.
These in turn impact the Groups market share, results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, erosion in the value chain for PRRPs could have a negative impact on the Groups sales volume or pricing for these products.
High excise could dampen demand for PRRPs or result in lower profit margins.
Lower market prices, high retail trade margins or increases in production costs could also negatively impact profit margins or lead to uncompetitive pricing.
280 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk: Effects of declining consumption of legitimate tobacco products and a tough competitive environment.
Description Evidence of market contraction and the growth of illicit trade of tobacco products is apparent in several key global markets in which the Group operates.
This decline is due to multiple factors, including increases in excise taxes leading to continued above-inflation price rises, changes in the regulatory environment, the continuing difficult economic environment in many countries impacting consumers disposable incomes, the increase in the trade of illicit tobacco products, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking and an increase in PRRP uptake.
The Group competes on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, taste, innovation, packaging, service, marketing, advertising and price.
The Group is subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of its business.
The competitive environment and the Groups competitive position can be significantly influenced by the prevailing economic climate, consumers disposable income, regulation, competitors introduction of lower-price or innovative products, higher tobacco product taxes, higher absolute prices, governmental action to increase minimum wages, employment costs, interest rates and increase in raw material costs.
Furthermore, the Group is subject to substantial payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements, which adversely affect the ability of the Group to compete in the US with manufacturers of deep-discount cigarettes that are not subject to such substantial obligations.
Impact Any future decline in the demand for legitimate tobacco products could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and financial conditions.
In a tough competitive environment, factors such as market size reduction, customer down-trading, illicit trade and competitors aggressively taking market share through price re-positioning or price wars generally reduce the overall profit pool of the market and may impact the Groups profits.
These risks may also lead to a decline in sales volume of the Group, loss of market share, erosion of its portfolio mix and reduction of funds available to it for investment in growth opportunities.
Risk: Funding, liquidity and interest rate risks.
Description The Group cannot be certain that it will have access to bank financing or to the debt and equity capital markets at all times and is therefore subject to funding and liquidity risks.
In addition, the Groups access to funding may be affected by restrictive covenants to which it is subject under some of its credit facilities.
The Group is also exposed to increases in interest rates in connection with both existing floating rate debt and future debt refinancings.
The current economic environment, with historically low interest rates, increases the likelihood of higher interest rates in the future.
Furthermore, the Group operates in several markets closely regulated by governmental bodies that intervene in foreign exchange markets by imposing limitations on the ability to transfer local currency into foreign currency and introducing other currency controls that expose cash balances to devaluation risks or that increase costs to obtain hard currency.
As a result, the Groups operational entities in these markets may be restricted from using end market cash resources to pay for imported goods, dividend remittances, interest payments and royalties.
The inability to access end market cash resources in certain markets contributes to the Groups funding and liquidity risks.
Impact Adverse developments in the Groups funding, liquidity and interest rate environment may lead to shortages of cash and cash equivalents needed to operate the Groups business and to refinance its existing debt.
Inability to fund the business under the Groups current capital structure, failure to access funding and foreign exchange or increases in interest rates may also have an adverse effect on the Groups credit rating, which would in turn result in further increased funding costs and may require the Group to issue equity or seek new sources of capital.
Non-compliance with the Groups covenants under certain credit facilities could lead to an acceleration of its debt.
All these factors may have material adverse effects on the Groups results of operations and financial conditions.
These conditions could also lead to underperforming bond prices and increased yields.
In the case of funding or liquidity constraints, the Group may also suffer reputational damage due to its perceived failure to manage the financial risk profile of its business, which may result in an erosion of shareholder value reflected in an underperforming share price, and or underperforming bond prices and higher yields.
In addition, the Groups ability to finance strategic opportunities or respond to threats may be impacted by limited access to funds.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 281 Additional disclosures Group risk factors continued Economic and Financial Risks continued Risk: Failure to achieve growth through mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures.
Description The Groups growth strategy includes a combination of organic growth as well as mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures.
The Group may be unable to acquire attractive businesses on favourable terms and may inappropriately value or otherwise fail to identify or capitalise on growth opportunities.
The Group may not be able to deliver strategic objectives and revenue improvements from business combinations, successfully integrate businesses it acquires or establishes, or obtain appropriate regulatory approvals for business combinations.
Risks from integration of businesses also include the risk that the integration may divert the Groups focus and resources from its other strategic goals.
Additionally, the Group could be exposed to financial, legal or reputational risks if it fails to appropriately consider any compliance or antitrust aspects of a transaction.
Further, the Group has certain uncapped indemnification obligations in connection with divestitures and could incur similar obligations in the future.
Impact Any of the foregoing risks could result in increased costs, decreased revenues or a loss of opportunities and have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and financial condition, and in the case of a breach of compliance or antitrust regulation, could lead to reputational damage, fines and potentially criminal sanctions.
The Group may become liable for claims arising in respect of conduct prior to any merger or acquisition of businesses if deemed to be a successor to the liabilities of the acquired company or indemnification claims relating to divestitures, and any resulting adverse judgment against the Group may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.
Risk: Unforeseen underperformance in key global markets.
Description A substantial majority of the Groups profit from operations is based on its operations in certain key markets, including the US.
A number of these markets, are declining for a variety of factors, including price increases, restrictions on advertising and promotions, smoking prevention campaigns, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups, migration to smokeless products and private businesses adopting policies that prohibit or restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking and tobacco use.
Economic and political factors affecting the Groups key markets include the prevailing economic climate, governmental austerity measures, levels of employment, inflation, governmental action to increase minimum wages, employment costs, interest rates, raw material costs, consumer confidence and consumer pricing.
Impact Any change to the economic and political factors in any of the key markets in which the Group operates could affect consumer behaviour and have an impact on the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
282 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk: Increases in net liabilities under the Groups retirement benefit schemes.
Description The Group currently maintains and contributes to defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans that cover various categories of employees and retirees worldwide.
The Groups obligations to make contributions under these arrangements may increase in the case of increases in pension liabilities, decreases in asset returns, salary increases, inflation, decreases in long-term interest rates, increases in life expectancies, changes in population trends and other actuarial assumptions.
Please refer to the information under the caption Retirement benefit schemes on page 155 and to note 12 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of the Groups retirement benefit schemes.
Impact Higher contributions to the Groups retirement benefit schemes could have an adverse impact on the Groups results of operations, financial condition and ability to raise funds.
Risk: Adverse consequences of the UKs potential exit from the EU.
Description The consequences of the UKs potential exit from the EU are uncertain, but could include reductions in the size of the UK market, downtrading as a result of affordability pressure weakening economy in the UK, an increased cost of doing business in the UK, higher cost of capital in the UK and both transactional and translational foreign exchange impacts, disruption to supply of materials due to changed customs procedures or duties, increased complexity and scrutiny on tax-related activities, or other changes to UK law.
In addition, the UKs exit from the EU may impose restrictions on employment and cross-border movements.
Impact Any of the consequences of the UKs exit from the EU may have a negative effect on the Groups results of operations and financial conditions.
In addition, any restrictions on employment and cross-border movements may result in additional employment and hiring costs and reduce the Groups ability to attract and retain highly talented individuals from the EU in the UK.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 283 Additional disclosures Group risk factors continued Product pipeline, commercialisation and IP risks Risk: Inability to predict consumers changing behaviours and launch innovative products that offer adult tobacco consumers meaningful value-added differentiation.
Description The Group focuses its research and development activities on both creating new products, including PRRPs, and maintaining and improving the quality of its existing products.
In a competitive market, the Group believes that innovation is key to growth.
The Group considers that one of its key challenges in the medium and long term is to provide adult tobacco consumers with high-quality products that take into account their changing preferences and expectations, while complying with evolving regulation.
The Group is in the early stages of development and roll-out of its PRRP portfolio, which requires significant initial investment.
The Group may be unsuccessful in developing and launching innovative products or maintaining and improving the quality of existing products across both combustibles and PRRPs that offer consumers meaningful value-added differentiation.
The Group may fail to keep pace with innovation in its sector or changes in consumer expectations.
Competitors may be more successful in predicting changing consumer and developing and rolling out consumer relevant products than the Group and may be able to do so more quickly and at lower costs than the Group.
In addition, the Group devotes considerable resources to the research and development of innovative products, in particular certain PRRPs that may have the potential to reduce the risks of smoking-related diseases.
The complex nature of research and development programmes necessary to satisfy emerging regulatory and scientific requirements creates a substantial risk that these programmes will fail to demonstrate health-related claims regarding PRRPs or to achieve adult tobacco consumer, regulatory and scientific acceptance.
Furthermore, the regulatory environment impacting non-combustible tobacco products, vapour products and other non-tobacco nicotine products, including classification of products for regulatory and excise purposes, is still developing and it cannot be predicted whether regulations will permit the marketing of such PRRPs in any given market in the future.
Categorisation as medicines, for example, and restrictions on advertising could stifle innovation, increase complexity and costs and significantly undermine the commercial viability of these products.
Alternatively, categorisation of any PRRPs as tobacco products for instance, could result in the application of onerous regulation, which could further stifle uptake.
Impact The inability to timely develop and roll out innovations or products in line with consumer demand, including any failure to predict changes in adult tobacco consumer and societal behaviour and expectations and to fill gaps in the product portfolio, as well as the risk of poor product quality, could lead to missed opportunities, underor over-supply, loss of competitive advantage, unrecoverable costs and or the erosion of the Groups consumer base or brand equity.
Restrictions on packaging and labelling or on promotion and advertising could impact the Groups ability to communicate its innovations and product differences to adult tobacco consumers, leading to unsuccessful product launches.
An inability to provide robust scientific results sufficient to substantiate health-related product claims poses a significant threat to the ability to launch innovative products and comply with emerging regulatory and legal regimes.
The occurrence of any of the above effects could in turn have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and financial condition and cause the Group to fail to deliver on its strategic growth plans.
Risk: Exposure to risks associated with intellectual property rights, including the failure to identify, protect and prevent infringement of the Groups intellectual property rights and potential infringement of, or the failure to retain licences to use, third-party intellectual property rights.
Description The Group relies on trademarks, patents, registered designs, copyrights and trade secrets.
The brand names under which the Groups products are sold are key assets of its business.
The protection and maintenance of the reputation of these brands is important to the Groups success.
Protection of intellectual property rights is also important in connection with the Groups innovative products, including PRRPs.
The Group is exposed to the risk of infringements of its intellectual property rights by third parties due to limitations in judicial protection, failure to identify, protect and register its innovations and or inadequate enforceability of these rights in some markets in which the Group operates.
Some brands and trademarks under which the Groups products are sold are licensed for a fixed period of time in certain markets.
If any of these licences is terminated or not renewed after the end of the applicable term, the Group would no longer have the right to use, and to sell products under, those brand s and trademark s. In addition, as third-party rights are not always identifiable, the Group may be subject to claims for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights.
Impact Any erosion in the value of the Groups brands, or failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of intellectual property rights for any reason, or the loss of brands or trademarks under licence to Group companies, may have a material adverse effect on the Groups market share, results of operations and financial condition.
Any inability to appropriately protect the Groups products and key innovations will also limit its growth and affect competitiveness and return on innovation investment.
Any infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in interim injunctions, product recalls, legal liability and the payment of damages, any of which may disrupt operations, negatively impact the Groups reputation and have an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.
284 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
