Strategic Report MANAGING RISK IN DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY Effective risk management is integral to our objective of delivering sustainable long term value The Executive Directors are responsible for delivering the Companys strategy, as set by the Board, and managing risk.
Our risk management framework categorises our risks into external, strategic and operational risks.
The Risk Committee comprising the Executive Directors and senior management across the business is responsible for managing the principal risks in each category in order to achieve our performance goals.
British Land core strengths Whilst ultimate responsibility for oversight of risk management restswith the Board, the effective day-to-day management of risk High quality commercial portfolio focused on isembedded within our operational business units and forms an London campuses and multi-let retail centres integral part of how we work.
This bottom up approach ensures around the UK potential risks are identified at an early stage and escalated as Long term strategy positioning the business appropriate, with mitigations put in place to manage such risks.
to benefit from long term trends Eachbusiness unit maintains a comprehensive risk register.
Customer focused approach to respond to Changes to the register are reviewed quarterly by the Risk changing lifestyles Committee, with significant and emerging risks escalated Diverse and high quality occupier base totheAudit Committee.
High occupancy and secure cash flows Well balanced and risk managed development pipeline To read more about the Board and Audit Committees risk oversight, Execution of asset management and see pages 67, 72 and 73. development activity Ability to source and execute attractive investment deals Top down Bottom up Efficient capital structure with good access Strategic risk management Operational risk management to capital and debt markets Strong sustainability performance Review external environment Assess effectiveness Robust assessment of risk management For British Land, effective risk management is a cornerstone of principal risks BOARD systems ofdelivering our strategy and integral to the achievement of our AUDIT COMMITTEE objective of delivering sustainable long term value.
We maintain a Set risk appetite Report on principal risks and parameters comprehensive risk management process which serves to identify, and uncertainties assess and respond to the full range of financial and non-financial Determine strategic risks facing our business, including those risks that could threaten action points solvency and liquidity, as well as identifying emerging risks.
Our approach is not intended to eliminate risk entirely, but instead Identify principal risks Consider completeness tomanage our risk exposures across the business, whilst at the of identified risks same time making the most of our opportunities.
Direct delivery of RISK and adequacy of COMMITTEE strategic actions in mitigating actions EXECUTIVE Our risk management framework line with risk appetite DIRECTORS Our integrated approach combines a top down strategic view with Consider aggregation acomplementary bottom up operational process outlined in the Monitor key of risk exposures diagram on the right.
risk indicators across the business The Board has overall responsibility for risk management with a particular focus on determining the nature and extent of exposure to Report current and principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Execute strategic emerging risks The amount of risk we are willing to take is assessed in the context of actions BUSINESS the core strengths of our business as summarised above and the UNITS Identify, evaluate and Report on key external environment in which weoperate this is our risk appetite.
mitigate operational risks risk indicators recorded in risk register The Audit Committee takes responsibility for overseeing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems onbehalf of the Board, and also advises the Board on the principal risks facing the business including those that would threaten its solvency orliquidity.
48 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our risk appetite Our risk focus The external environment remains difficult, and the Board is Change in risk Principal Key risk indicators appetite in the continuing to monitor the potential risks associated with the UK internal risks including current optimal thresholds year leaving the European Union Brexit.
As exit negotiations are ongoing, the final outcome remains unclear and it is too early to Investment Execution of targeted acquisitions and strategy disposals in line with capital allocation plan understand fully the impact Brexit will have on our business and overseen by Investment Committee our markets.
The main impact of Brexit is the potential negative Annual IRR process which forecasts impact on the macro-economic environment, but it could also prospective returns of each asset impact our investment and occupier markets, our ability to execute Percentage of portfolio in non-core sectors our investment strategy and our income sustainability.
Development Total development exposure 15% strategy ofinvestment portfolio by value During the year, the Risk Committee has focused on some key operational risk areas across the business and has undertaken Speculative development exposure 8% of investment portfolio by value deep dive reviews into specific areas of risk including: Progress on execution of key development projects against plan Data protection GDPR and implementing a project to manage personal data appropriately Capital Manage our leverage such that LTV should Retailer tenant risk and managing our exposure to individual structure not exceed a maximum threshold if market yields were toriseto previous peaks customers or sectors in light of a more challenging market Financial covenant headroom backdrop Enhancing our crisis management strategy for both physical Finance Period until refinancing is required andcyber risks including a simulation exercise for senior strategy ofnot less than two years management Percentage of debt with interest rate Management of health and safety and environmental risks across hedging over next five years the portfolio.
In particular, fabric investigations were carried People Unplanned executive departures outon our entire portfolio following the Grenfell Tower fire.
Employee engagement Best OurHealth and Safety management system was re-certified Companies survey under BSOHSAS 18001 Identifying and managing key supplier relationships and the Income Market letting risk including vacancies, sustainability upcoming expiries, and breaks and launch of our Supplier Code of Conduct speculative development Weighted average unexpired lease term Concentration of exposure to individual customers or sectors Key Change from last year Unchanged Our risk appetite is reviewed annually as part of the annual strategy review process and approved by the Board.
This evaluation guides the actions we take in executing our strategy.
We have identified a suite of Key Risk Indicators KRIs to monitor the risk profile as summarised above, which are reviewed quarterly bythe Risk Committee, to ensure that the activities of the business remain within our risk appetite and that our risk exposure is well matched to changes in our business and our markets.
These include the most significant judgements affecting our risk exposure, including our investment and development strategy: the level of occupational and development exposure: and our financial leverage.
The Board considers the risk appetite annually and has concluded it is broadly unchanged from last year and is appropriate toachieve our strategic objectives.
Our strategy, which is based on long term trends, endures, and our financial capacity, flexibility and optionality enable us to adjust to the evolving political and economic uncertainties.
During the year we have maintained a balanced approach to risk.
Weve had a strong focus on capital discipline, demonstrated by selling 1.3 billion of mature and off-strategy assets, reinvesting partly in our share buyback programme, selective acquisitions and profitable development, whilst reducing our LTV further to 28.4%.
We have substantial headroom and operational optionality to continue to progress our unique development pipeline, including at Canada Water, whilst at the sametime carefully managing our risk profile.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Strategic Report MANAGING RISK IN DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Our principal risks and assessment and regulatory outlook, commercial property investor demand, Our risk management framework is structured around the occupier demand including tenant default and the risk to our income principal risks facing British Land.
The Audit Committee on behalf sustainability.
One risk, capital structure, is considered to have of the Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal reduced reflecting our lower leverage.
risks and uncertainties that the business isexposed to in light of the long term trends we are facing see page 12, together with the The principal risks are summarised below and detailed on pages 52 challenging backdrop ofpolitical and economic uncertainty.
Whilst to 55, including an assessment of the potential impact and likelihood the nature and type ofthe principal risks are considered to be and how the risks have changed in the year, together withhow they unchanged from the previous year, several of our principal risks are relate to our strategic priorities.
elevated as shown by the risk heat map below, being the political Our risk assessment Change Key strategic in risk Principal priorities assessment risks affected in year External risks 1 Economic outlook 2 Political and 2 regulatory outlook 4 1 Commercial 3 property investor 12 3 demand 4 Occupier demand 7 and tenant default 6 5 Availability and cost 5 of finance 10 Catastrophic 6 9 11 business event 8 Internal risks strategic Investment strategy 7 Development 8 strategy Capital structure 9 Impact 10 Finance strategy Note: The above illustrates principal risks which by their nature are those which have the potential to significantly impact the Groups strategic objectives, financial position or reputation.
The heat map highlights net risk, after taking account of principal mitigations.
Internal risks operational Key People 11 Strategic priorities Change year on year Customer Orientation Unchanged 12 Income sustainability Right Places Increased Capital Efficiency Reduced Expert People Other group risks These risks comprise: In addition to our principal risks, there are also a number of other risks that are largely operational innature and are managed Operating model including Effective control centrally with appropriate processes and mitigation plans in place.
reliance on third parties environment Culture Fraud and corruption Information systems and Compliance and legal cyber security framework Supply chain management 50 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Likelihood Viability statement The sensitivities performed were designed to be severe but Assessment of prospects plausible: and to take full account of the availability of mitigating The Groups annual corporate planning process includes the actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or completion of a strategic review, reassessing the Groups risk occurrence of the underlying risks relating to a downturn scenario: appetite and updating the Groups forecasts.
Downturn in economic outlook: key assumptions including The Groups strategy provides the focus for our annual priorities occupancy, void periods, rental growth and yields were and is formally reviewed annually.
This process is led by the Chief sensitised in the downturn scenario to reflect reasonably Executive through the Executive Committee and includes the active likelylevels associated with an economic downturn, including: engagement of the Board.
Part of the Boards role is to consider a reduction in occupier demand, with a fall in occupancy rate whether the strategy takes appropriate account of the Groups of 5% and ERV declines of 6% principal risks.
The latest updates to the strategic plan and a reduction in investment property demand to the level seen Groups risk appetite were approved by the Board in March 2018. in the last severe downturn in 2008 2009, with outward yield shift to 8% net initial yield The strategy and risk appetite drive the Groups forecasts.
These cover a five-year period and consist of a base case forecast which Restricted availability of finance: based on the Groups current includes committed transactions only, and a forecast which also commitments and available facilities there is no requirement includes non-committed transactions the Board expects the torefinance until early 2021.
In the normal course of business, Group to make in line with the Groups strategy.
A five-year financing is arranged in advance of expected requirements forecast is considered to be the optimal balance between the and the Directors have reasonable confidence that additional Groups long term business model to create Places People Prefer or replacement debt facilities will be put in place.
In the and the fact that property investment is a long term business downturn scenario, the following sensitivity of this withweighted average lease lengths and debt maturities in assumption was conducted: excess of five years, offset by the progressively unreliable nature a reduction in the availability of finance, for the final two of forecasting in later years, particularly given the historically years of the five-year assessment period from early 2021 cyclical nature of the UK property industry.
alongside the Groups refinancing date Assessment of viability For the reasons outlined above, the period over which the The outcome of the downturn scenario was that the Groups Directors consider it feasible and appropriate to report on covenant headroom based on existing debt i. e. the level by which theGroups viability is the five-year period to 31 March 2023. investment property values would have to fall before a financial covenant breach occurs decreases from the current 60% to, at its The assumptions underpinning these forecast cash flows and lowest level, 22%, indicating covenants on existing facilities would covenant compliance forecasts were sensitised to explore the not be breached.
resilience of the Group to the potential impact of the Groups significant risks, or a combination of those risks.
In the downturn scenario, mitigating actions would be required toenable the Group to meet its future liabilities, including through The principal risks table which follows on pages 52 to 55 asset sales, which would allow the Group to continue to meet its summarises those matters that could prevent the Group from liabilities over the assessment period.
A number of these principal risks, because of their nature or potential impact, could also threaten Viability statement the Groups ability to continue in business in its current form if Having considered the forecast cash flows and covenant they were to occur.
compliance and the impact of the sensitivities in combination inthe downturn scenario, the Directors confirm that they have The Directors paid particular attention to the risk of a downturn areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in economic outlook which could impact property fundamentals, inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period including investor and occupier demand which would have a to31 March 2023. negative impact on valuations, and give rise to a reduction in the availability of finance.
The remaining principal risks, whilst having Going concern an impact on the Groups business model, are not considered by The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the the Directors to have a reasonable likelihood of impacting the financial statements on the going concern basis, as explained Groups viability over the five-year period to 31 March 2023. in the Governance review.
To read more information on going concern, go to page 67.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51
