Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS External risks Risks and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Change in risk assessment in the year The UK economic climate The Risk Committee reviews the economic The decision to leave the EU continues to impact Economic and future movements in environment in which we operate quarterly to assess the economic outlook.
Nonetheless, UK economic outlook interest rates present whether any changes to the economic outlook justify growth has remained relatively resilient and has fared Responsible risks and opportunities in a re-assessment of the risk appetite of the business.
better than many expected, albeit growing at levels executive: property and financing lower than other major economies.
Key indicators including forecast GDP growth, Chris Grigg markets and the employment rates, business and consumer Consumer spending has softened as inflation has businesses of our confidence, interest rates and inflation deflation squeezed household spending, although there are some customers which can are considered, aswell as central bank guidance early signs that inflation is moderating.
There has, impact both the delivery and government policyupdates.
however, been some offset from a stronger global of our strategy and economy.
Equity and foreign exchange markets have We stress test our business plan against a downturn our financial been less volatile in the year, although remain sensitive ineconomic outlook to ensure our financial position performance.
The Bank of England increased interest rates for the first Our resilient business model focuses on a high time in a decade, with the prospect of more rises to quality portfolio, with secure income streams and come.
Increases are expected to be limited and gradual robust finances.
and to remain low by historical standards.
We are mindful of the ongoing political and economic uncertainties: however we are confident that the resilience of our business with our sustainable long term income streams and balance sheet strength, together with the actions we have taken, leaves our business well positioned.
Significant political events Whilst we are not able to influence the outcome Whilst a Brexit transition period has been agreed Political and regulatory changes, of significant political events, we do take the to 2020, uncertainty remains over the outcome of and regulatory including the decision to uncertainty related to such events and the range negotiations on our future relationship with the EU, outlook leave the EU, bring risks of possible outcomes into account when making including crucial issues of market access, labour Responsible principally in two areas: strategic investment and financing decisions.
Furthermore, the global executive: geopolitical and trade environments remain uncertain.
Reluctance of investors Internally we review and monitor proposals and Chris Grigg The present hung Parliament also creates domestic and businesses to emerging policy and legislation to ensure that we policy uncertainty.
make investment and take the necessary steps to ensure compliance if occupational decisions applicable.
Additionally we engage public affairs In terms of significant regulatory changes, the General whilst the outcome consultants to ensure that we are properly briefed Data Protection Regulation GDPR comes into force remains uncertain and on the potential policy and regulatory implications on 25 May 2018 and will control and govern the use of of political events.
We also monitor public trust in personal data, affecting operations across the business.
On determination of the business.
Where appropriate, we act with other outcome, the impact on In these more volatile times, we will benefit from our industry participants and representative bodies the case for investment long term, secure rental income, with 97% of our to contribute to policy and regulatory debate.
inthe UK, and on portfolio occupied and our financial capacity and We monitor and respond to social and political specific policies and flexibility to adjust to evolving conditions.
reputational challenges relevant to the industry.
regulation introduced, particularly those which directly impact real estate or our customers Reduction in investor The Risk Committee reviews the property market Overall property transaction volumes held up Commercial demand for UK real estate quarterly to assess whether any changes to the relatively well in 2017, however, investors are property may result in falls in asset market outlook present risks and opportunities becoming increasingly selective and market pricing investor demand valuations and could arise which should be reflected in the execution of our polarised, with continued softening in demand for more Responsible from variations in: strategy and our capital allocation plan.
executives: Committee considers indicators such as margin The health of the UK The historically wide gap between property yields and Charles Maudsley, between property yields and borrowing costs economy interest rates has continued to underpin demand for UK Tim Roberts and property capital growth forecasts, which are real estate, albeit interest rates are expected to rise The attractiveness of considered alongside the Committee members slightly in the medium term.
investment in the UK knowledge and experience of market activity In terms of our sectors: Availability of finance and trends.
Office investment volumes continue to benefit from Relative attractiveness We focus on prime assets and sectors which we demand from overseas investors, but investors are ofother asset classes believe will be less susceptible over the medium increasingly selective in terms of their requirements, term to a reduction in occupier and investor demand.
often seeking well-let, best-in-class stock or Strong relationships with agents and direct investors opportunities with an achievable growth story.
Supply active in the market.
of high quality new space across both the West End We stress test our business plan for the effect of and City markets is relatively constrained in the short a change in property yields.
London office prime yields have been stable throughout 2017.
Retail investment volumes remain subdued, albeit activity increased towards the end of 2017, particularly for retail parks.
Investor demand for retail Key increasingly focused on smaller lot sizes with secure income streams.
Retail prime yields remain stable, Change from last year but secondary asset prices are expected to weaken further as polarisation in retail continues.
Risk exposure has increased We have continued to be active and successfully sold 1.3 billion of assets, overall above valuation.
N o significant change in risk exposure Risk exposure has reduced 52 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risks and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Change in risk assessment in the year Underlying income, The Risk Committee reviews indicators of In the more uncertain environment, we are seeing Occupier rental growth and capital occupier demand quarterly including consumer polarisation of occupier demand accelerating with demand performance could be confidence surveys and employment and ERV an increasing focus on the best quality space.
In this and tenant adversely affected by growth forecasts, alongside the Committee context, our leasing activity has been good, with default weakening occupier members knowledge and experience of occupier 2.4 million sq ft of space let or renewed across the demand and occupier plans, trading performance and leasing activity portfolio, at rates well ahead of ERV, and our portfolio Responsible failures resulting from in guiding execution of our strategy.
remains virtually full with 97% occupancy.
executives: variations in the health Charles Maudsley, We have a high quality, diversified occupier base In terms of our sectors: of the UK economy and Tim Roberts and monitor concentration of exposure to individual In the London office market, occupiers are more corresponding weakening occupiers or sectors.
We perform rigorous occupier thoughtful about their requirements as a result of of consumer confidence, covenant checks ahead of approving deals and on an political and economic uncertainty.
However, we business activity and ongoing basis so that we can be proactive in managing continue to see both international and British investment.
companies making commitments in London, Changing consumer and Ongoing engagement with our customers.
Through confident of its enduring status as a global city in business practices our Key Occupier Account programme we work which the worlds leading organisations want to do including the growth of together with our occupiers to find ways to best meet business.
Take-up has remained resilient partly internet retailing, flexible their evolving requirements.
underpinned by strong demand for flexible working practices and workspace, demonstrating the changing occupier Our sustainability strategy links action on occupier demand for energy market, as well as good demand for Grade A space.
health and wellbeing, energy efficiency, community efficient buildings, new and sustainable design to our business strategy.
With retailers facing economic and structural technologies, new Our social and environmental targets help us comply challenges, the wider occupational market has been legislation and alternative with new legislation and respond to customer more cautious with polarisation of occupier demand locations may result in demands: for example, we expect all our office continuing.
Whilst more recently, we have seen a earlier than anticipated developments to be BREEAM Excellent.
number of operators apply for company voluntary obsolescence of our arrangements, as some retailers struggle to compete buildings if evolving with the rise of online shopping and increased costs, occupier and regulatory there are many retailers which continue to trade well requirements are not met.
The growth in importance of online means the way in which occupiers and their customers are using physical space is changing.
However the store and its value is still integral to support retailers omni-channel approach, and there remains demand for the best space, where retailers can grow sales with lower occupancy costs.
Reduced availability of Market borrowing rates and real estate credit Although there has continued to be market Availability finance may adversely availability are monitored by the Risk Committee volatility reacting to macro-economic and political and cost impact ability to refinance quarterly and reviewed regularly in order to guide uncertainties, debt markets have remained open.
There of finance debt and or drive up cost.
our financing actions in executing our strategy.
continues to be good availability of finance in debt and Responsible These factors may also capital markets unsecured and secured from a range We monitor our projected LTV and our debt executives: result in weaker investor of lenders for UK REITs and other good quality real requirements using several internally generated Lucinda Bell demand for real estate.
Development finance is more difficult reports focused on borrowing levels, debt maturity, until January 2018, to obtain with fewer lenders participating.
Projects Regulation and capital available facilities and interest rate exposure.
Chris Grigg without pre-lets require strong sponsors.
costs of lenders may We maintain good long term relationships with our after January 2018 increase cost of finance.
Interest margins spreads have been relatively stable, key financing partners.
but market gilt rates have increased, pushing overall The scale and quality of our business enables us to debt pricing up although still low by historical access a diverse range of sources of finance with a standards.
We aim always to have We have continued to access the debt markets and a good level of undrawn, committed, unsecured during the year raised 400 million of new finance revolving facilities to ensure we have adequate including a 300 million unsecured Sterling bond, financing availability to support business as well as extending 225 million of revolving requirements and opportunities.
We work with industry bodies and other relevant organisations to participate in debate on emerging finance regulations where our interests and those of our industry are affected.
An external event such We maintain a comprehensive crisis response plan The evaluation of the likely impact of this risk Catastrophic as a civil emergency, across all business units as well as a head office has not changed notably since the prior year.
business including a large-scale business continuity plan.
The Home Office threat level from international event terrorist attack, cyber terrorism remains Severe.
During the year, we have The Risk Committee monitors the Home Office Responsible crime, extreme weather carried out a crisis simulation exercise and enhanced terrorism threat levels and we have access to executive: occurrence, our procedures where appropriate.
Chris Grigg environmental disaster We are mindful of cyber security risks, particularly Asset emergency procedures are regularly reviewed or power shortage could following a number of recent high-profile hacks, and scenario tested.
Physical security measures are severely disrupt global and have continued to enhance our security position in place at properties and development sites.
markets including and provide employee training and awareness on Our Sustainability Committee monitors property and finance and cyber security.
environmental and climate change risks.
Asset risk cause significant damage assessments are carried out to assess a range of and disruption to British risks including security, flood, environmental, Lands portfolio and health and safety.
We have implemented corporate cyber security systems which are supplemented by incident management, disaster recovery and business continuity plans, all of which are regularly reviewed to be able to respond to changes in the threat landscape and organisational requirements.
We also have appropriate insurance in place across the portfolio.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Internal risks Risks and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Change in risk assessment in the year In order to meet our Our investment strategy is determined to be Our strategy is aligned to long term trends, and Investment strategic objectives we consistent with our target risk appetite and is based our high quality portfolio is positioned to benefit strategy aim to invest in and exit on the evaluation of the external environment.
from increasing polarisation and to attract a broader Responsible from the right properties range of occupiers.
Progress against the strategy and continuing executives: at the right time.
alignment with our risk appetite is discussed at We have continued to be active in executing our capital Chris Grigg, Underperformance could each Risk Committee with reference to the property allocation plans and have sold 1.3 billion of assets in Charles Maudsley, result from changes in markets and the external economic environment.
the year overall ahead of valuation, primarily mature Tim Roberts market sentiment as and off-strategy assets.
The retail market faces The Board carries out an annual review of the well as inappropriate structural challenges and we have continued to overall corporate strategy including the current determination reshape our Retail portfolio with 419 million of sales and prospective asset portfolio allocation.
and execution of our in the year: in total 2.3 billion over the last four years.
Individual investment decisions are subject to property investment We have maintained strong capital discipline, and robust risk evaluation overseen by our Investment strategy, including: have focused resources on progressing our unique Committee including consideration of returns Sector selection and development programme, selective acquisitions and relative to risk adjusted hurdle rates.
Overall we were a net Review of prospective performance of individual divestor of 0.8 billion of properties over the course Timing of investment assets and their business plans.
and divestment We foster collaborative relationships with our decisions co-investors and enter into ownership agreements Exposure to which balance the interests of the parties.
developments Asset, tenant, region concentration Co-investment arrangements Development provides We manage our levels of total and speculative Development is an important part of our business Development an opportunity for development exposure as a proportion of the and has delivered some of our strongest returns, strategy outperformance but investment portfolio value within a target range but is inherently higher risk, particularly when pursued Responsible usually brings with it taking into account associated risks and the impact on a speculative basis.
We limit our development executives: elevated risk.
This is monitored quarterly exposure to 15% of the total investment portfolio by Chris Grigg, by the Risk Committee along with progress of value, with a maximum of 8% to be developed This is reflected in our Charles Maudsley, developments against plan.
decision-making process Tim Roberts around which schemes to Prior to committing to a development a detailed During the year, we have doubled our committed develop, the timing of the appraisal is undertaken.
This includes consideration development pipeline, representing a total development, as well as of returns relative to risk adjusted hurdle rates and development exposure of 8.9%, whilst carefully the execution of these is overseen by our Investment Committee.
managing the risk by securing substantial pre-lets: projects.
as such there has been only a minor increase in Pre-lets are used to reduce development letting risk speculative exposure, which now stands at 4.5% of Development strategy where considered appropriate.
Committed construction costs are addresses several Competitive tendering of construction contracts substantially covered by residential receipts to come.
development risks that and, where appropriate, fixed price contracts could adversely impact entered into.
underlying income and Detailed selection and close monitoring of capital performance contractors including covenant reviews.
including: Experienced development management team Development letting closely monitors design, construction and overall exposure delivery process.
Construction timing Early engagement and strong relationships with and costs including planning authorities.
construction cost We also actively engage with the communities in inflation which we operate, as detailed in our Local Charter, Major contractor failure to ensure that our development activities consider Adverse planning the interests of all stakeholders.
judgements We manage environmental and social risks across our development supply chain by engaging with our suppliers, including through our Supplier Code of Conduct, Sustainability Brief for Developments and Health and Safety Policy.
Key Change from last year Risk exposure has increased N o significant change in risk exposure Risk exposure has reduced 54 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risks and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Change in risk assessment in the year Our capital structure We manage our use of debt and equity finance to Our balance sheet metrics remain strong: both Capital structure recognises the balance balance the benefits of leverage against the risks.
the proportionally consolidated loan to value leverage between performance, LTV and weighted average interest rate have been We aim to manage our loan to value LTV through Responsible risk and flexibility.
reduced alongside improved interest cover.
We have the property cycle such that our financial position executives: decreased LTV by a further 150 bps to 28.4% from Leverage magnifies would remain robust in the event of a significant fall Lucinda Bell 29.9% at 31 March 2017, primarily through net capital returns, both in property values.
This means we do not adjust our until January 2018, disposals.
This financial strength provides us with positive and negative approach to leverage based on changes in property Chris Grigg the capacity to progress opportunities including our market yields.
An increase in leverage after January 2018 development pipeline whilst retaining significant increases the risk of We manage our investment activity, the size and headroom to our covenants.
a breach of covenants timing of which can be uneven, as well as our on borrowing facilities development commitments to ensure that our LTV and may increase level remains appropriate.
finance costs We leverage our equity and achieve benefits of scale while spreading risk through joint ventures and funds which are typically partly financed by debt without recourse to British Land.
Finance strategy Five key principles guide our financing, employed The scale of our business, quality of our assets Finance addresses risks both to together to manage the risks in this area: diversify and security of our rental streams enable us to strategy continuing solvency and our sources of finance, phase maturity of debt access a broad range of debt finance on attractive Responsible profits generated.
portfolio, maintain liquidity, maintain flexibility, terms.
Following issuance of the 300 million executives: and maintain strong balance sheet metrics.
unsecured Sterling bond, our weighted average debt Failure to manage Lucinda Bell maturity is almost nine years, and based on current refinancing requirements We monitor the period until financing is required, until January 2018, commitments and available debt facilities, we have no may result in a shortage which is a key determinant of financing activity.
Debt Chris Grigg requirement to refinance until early 2021.
Our committed of funds to sustain the and capital market conditions are reviewed regularly after January 2018 bank facilities total 1.8 billion of which 1.2 billion operations of the business to identify financing opportunities that meet our were undrawn at 31 March 2018.
The strength of our or repay facilities as they business requirements.
business is reflected in our senior unsecured credit fall due.
Financial covenant headroom is evaluated regularly rating which was upgraded by Fitch to A from Aand in conjunction with transactions.
We are committed to maintaining and enhancing relationships with our key financing partners.
We are mindful of relevant emerging regulation which has the potential to impact the way that we finance the business.
A number of critical Our HR strategy is designed to minimise risk Expert People is one of the four core focus People business processes and through: areas of our strategy and a key factor in our Responsible decisions lie in the hands performance.
We continue to empower our people informed and skilled recruitment processes executive: of a few people.
to make the most of their potential though training Chris Grigg talent performance management and succession and development.
Failure to recruit, develop planning for key roles and retain staff and We are focused on building a supportive and inclusive highly competitive compensation and benefits Directors with the right culture for our people and we were thefirst listed skills and experience may people development and training.
property company to achieve the National Equality result in significant Standard accreditation in theyear.
The risk is measured through employee underperformance or engagement surveys including the Best During the year, staff turnover has remained relatively impact the effectiveness Companies survey, employee turnover and low at 15% and our high level of staff engagement was of operations and decision retention metrics.
We monitor this through the recognised by achieving a Two Star rating in the Sunday making, in turn impacting number of unplanned executive departures in Times Best Companies to Work For survey.
addition to conducting exit interviews.
We engage with our employees and suppliers to make clear our requirements in managing key risks including health and safety, fraud and bribery and other social and environmental risks, as detailed in our policies and codes of conduct.
We are mindful of We undertake comprehensive profit and cash flow We are mindful of the challenges facing the retail Income maintaining sustainable forecasting incorporating scenario analysis to model market which has seen a number of operators sustainability income streams which theimpact of proposed transactions.
apply for company voluntary arrangements.
We Responsible underpin a stable and continue to actively monitor our exposure to occupiers Proactive asset management approach to maintain executives: growing dividend and at risk of default and administration and are selective strong occupier line-up.
We monitor our market Lucinda Bell provide the platform about the sectors and operators we target.
letting exposure including vacancies, upcoming until January 2018, from which to grow expiries and breaks and speculative development as We also recognise that in delivering our investment Chris Grigg the business.
well as our weighted average unexpired lease term.
strategy and selling some of our mature assets, we after January 2018, We consider sustainability have had to be conscious of the impact on our income We have a high quality and diversified occupier base Charles Maudsley, of our income streams in: in the short term.
and monitor concentration of exposure to individual Tim Roberts Execution of occupiers orsectors.
However, our income streams are underpinned by investment strategy a high quality, diverse occupier base with high We are proactive in addressing key lease breaks and capital recycling, occupancy, and looking forward our development and expiries to minimise periods of vacancy.
notably timing pipeline offers significant potential to generate We actively engage with the communities in which of reinvestment of future income.
we operate, as detailed in our Local Charter, to sale proceeds ensure we provide buildings that meet the needs Nature and structure of all relevant stakeholders.
of leasing activity Nature and timing of asset management and development activity British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55
