STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The table below sets out the principal The risk score movement from the prior Alignment to strategy key risks faced by the company, the link to the year for each principal risk is presented Generate profitable growth in companys strategies, movement in the risk as follows: our core markets score, examples of relevant controls and mitigating factors and recent developments.
No change Exploit global opportunities in The company is exposed to a wide range of kids, family and adult categories risks in addition to those listed.
Increased Continue to step-change our business capability Decreased Build trust and respect in our communities CONSUMER PREFERENCE Principal risk Risk description Failure to deliver brand propositions which respond to changing Consumer preferences, tastes and behaviours change over time and consumer preferences.
differ between the different markets in which we operate.
As part of this, the consumers desire for healthier choices including some beginning to want all natural, clean label products in addition to low sugar drinks and premiumisation are significant trends.
Our ability to anticipate these trends and ensure the relevance of our brands and communication messages is critical to our competitiveness in the market place and our performance.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments We have a broad portfolio of products across a number of sub-categories We continue to invest in innovation and marketing programmes.
and markets to increase coverage of consumer trends.
Britvic has recently launched innovations and brand extensions, such We monitor market trends to identify consumer, customer and shopper as Purdeys natural energy multi-vitamin drink and super-premium insights in order to develop category and brand strategies.
and naturally light London Essence Company tonics and sodas in Our brand communication strategies are designed to optimise digital order to capitalise on consumer trends towards healthier choices and and traditional channel opportunities.
Our innovation process is informed by our category strategies and In 2018, Robinsons extended its squash portfolio with the launch of uses tools, processes and resources to develop new products and Robinsons Fruit Cordials, targeted at adults, and Robinsons Creations, brand communication.
a premium alternative to the everyday range.
Together they are worth 25m of retail sales value and have helped to deliver Robinsons and category value growth in 2018.
The Pressade Bonjour range of organic juices was launched in 2017 and continues to deliver strong growth in the French juice market.
The investment in the companys supply chain will increase our ability to create natural clean label products through the introduction of new aseptic lines.
HEALTH AND OBESITY CONCERNS Principal risk Risk description Failure to respond to growing health concerns of consumers and There is a continued high level of media and government scrutiny on expectations from public health bodies and government ofcials on the soft health and obesity in all of the markets we operate in, with a soft drinks drinks industry role in tackling health issues such as obesity.
levy introduced in the UK, a soft drinks tax in Ireland and revisions to the French soda tax in 2018.
It is important that we continue to take a leadership position on health issues.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments We have a wide range of soft drinks, many of which are low or no sugar.
3.5 billion calories have been removed from the GB portfolio in 2018 In Ireland, Britvic leads the No added sugar NAS market and in GB through new reformulations.
Britvic has a signicantly higher market share in NAS than the total soft 90% of Britvics total GB portfolio by volume and 83% of Britvics drinks market.
volume in Ireland is now exempt below the levy tax threshold Ongoing evaluation and development of the brand portfolio and including PepsiCo.
innovation pipeline: our innovation pipeline is weighted towards lower In GB & Ireland we benefited from the introduction of the sugar levy sugar or nutritionally enhanced brands.
in the UK and the sugar tax in Ireland as a result of our strong portfolio Reformulation of products where we can, to help consumers make of leading low and no sugar brands.
Additionally stills brands such as healthier choices.
Robinsons, MiWadi and Ballygowan delivered strong market value We market our brands responsibly and dont directly target under 12s share growth.
and have a focus on low or no sugar variants, as well as encouraging We continued to support health programmes and charities through consumers to lead active lifestyles.
our brands, including the Fruit Shoot partnership with Public We work closely with non-government organisations and trade Health Englands Change4Life campaign and MiWadi supporting associations in our markets to fully participate in the debate and help Diabetes Ireland.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 31 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RETAILER LANDSCAPE AND CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Principal risk Risk description We may not be able to maintain strong relationships or respond to changes Maintaining strong relationships with our existing customers and building in the retailer landscape.
relationships with new customers and technology-enabled channels is critical for our brands to be available and well presented to our consumers.
A failure to do this may impact our ability to obtain competitive pricing and trade terms and or the availability and presentation of our brands.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments We operate across many different customer channels and markets.
The GB supply chain investment programme is enabling us to respond to Continuous monitoring of customer performance and trends.
customer and consumer needs through improved capability to produce We develop joint business plans with customers that include investment different products and pack sizes.
Strengthened position in the licensed and leisure channel with the We have capabilities in the soft drinks category and customer outlet successful retention of Marstons and win of Cineworld in GB.
design, which enable us to nd new ways to improve customer Successfully integrated East Coast into our Irish wholesale business, performance and enhance our relationships.
enabling it to accelerate the distribution of Britvic brands in the Dublin on-trade sector.
THIRD PARTY RELATIONSHIPS Principal risk Risk description Partnerships may not be renewed or are renewed on less favourable terms.
We currently bottle and co-market a number of PepsiCo products in GB and Ireland, including 7UP and Pepsi.
Additionally we have a relationship with a number of partners to grow our family, adult and kids brands outside of our core markets.
Our partnership with PepsiCo and distributors and franchisees is an important part of our business and delivery of our strategy going forward.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments Robust governance and management of relationship with PepsiCo and Pepsi and Pepsi MAX achieved record share in 2018 in GB continuing other partners.
the upward trajectory in performance we have been driving for well over a decade.
SUPPLY CHAIN Principal risk Risk description Supplier failure, market shortage or an adverse event in our supply chain Our business depends on purchasing a wide variety of products impacts sourcing of our products and or that the cost of our products is and services, efficient manufacturing and distribution processes.
signicantly affected by commodity price movements.
Brexit presents a specic risk, which is explored in further detail in the 2018 developments.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments We have robust supplier strategy, selection, monitoring and The GB supply chain investment programme will further improve the management processes.
exibility and therefore resilience of our supply chain.
We monitor market conditions for commodities and, where appropriate, We maintain multiple sources of supply for our products wherever hedge our contractual positions.
During the summer, the industry-wide CO shortage impacted 2 Externally certied management systems across the supply chain.
a number of companies including Britvic.
The company reduced the level Business continuity planning processes.
of promotional activity to help manage demand during the shortage.
Unlike some other businesses, leaving the European Union of itself, does not present specic challenges to the company as we manufacture the vast majority of nished goods in the same market as our selling market.
Nonetheless, Brexit could result in higher cost of goods for the company, as a result of the introduction of trade tariffs for imports to the UK from the EU which would impact the raw materials that we purchase from the EU.
Additionally, in the event of a no-deal Brexit, there is a risk of disruption at borders, which could impact the supply of some raw materials sourced from the EU.
We are working closely with suppliers to understand their plans, reviewing all supply alternatives and increasing the level of raw materials that we hold in the run-up to 29 March 2019.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ENVIRONMENT Principal risk Risk description Natural capital depletion, climate change and environmental pollution all The impact of extreme and longer-term shifts in weather patterns, natural present a risk to our ability to source, manufacture and market our drinks.
resource depletion and other ecological effects of climate change could impact the business in a number of ways, nancially and reputationally.
It could lead to reduced availability for example of agricultural material which in turn could result in price rises or interruptions to supply.
Further regulatory action to manage climate change and environmental pollution impacts could see restrictions imposed and or taxes introduced.
Additionally, it is important that we continually look to reduce the companys direct environmental impact by managing our resource consumption efficiently and sourcing sustainably.
Increasing regulatory requirements and growing societal pressure with regards to packaging plastics in particular may present a financial and or reputational risk to our existing packaging portfolio and impact upon our ability to market our products.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments Environmental considerations including impacts associated with The investment in the GB supply chain will enable the company to be sourcing, production and end-of-life stages are embedded within our more efficient, reduce energy consumption and the number of road innovation pipeline.
miles travelled by nished product.
For example the manufacturing We work closely with our suppliers to understand the environmental carbon intensity ratio has reduced from 30.2 to 26.0 kg CO2e per tonne impact of key ingredients and, through our responsible sourcing production in 2018. programme, promote environmental protection and pollution prevention.
The GB supply chain investment programme is enabling us to access Within our A Healthier Everyday sustainability programme we make the latest in packaging technology, allowing us to further light-weight environmental commitments, including carbon emission reductions, bottles and cans.
Nearly 600 tonnes of primary plastic removed and water savings and reducing the environmental impact of our packaging.
2,825 tonnes of can material saved in 2018.
We have externally certied management systems in place to monitor Through our trade associations and directly, we continue to proactively and reduce the environmental impact of our operations and ensure engage with government on the feasibility of a Deposit Return compliance with environmental legislation.
Scheme DRS system and other actions to increase recycling and Our sustainable packaging strategy focuses on: system changes that reduce littering.
are needed to support a more circular economy: changes we can make This year we committed to only purchasing Packaging Recovery Notes as a business to reduce the environmental impact of our packaging: and PRN from the UK, investing in the UK recycling industry in support of how we can encourage consumer change in support of recycling and the circular economy.
INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION Principal risk Risk description Our plan to grow our international business is limited by lack of brand To achieve our strategy of growing internationally, it is important momentum, local geo-political or economic risks, the risks associated with that we have the appropriate governance, systems and processes in start-up profitability or substandard processes and systems.
place and that our brand propositions respond appropriately to local consumer preferences.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments We have a strategy of a mix of asset light franchise and business In Brazil we continue to invest for the long term against a backdrop of acquisitions, which reduces our exposure to this risk.
The Bela Ischia acquisition is enabling us to expand We carry out extensive due diligence prior to entering into a new market.
market and channel coverage, and delivering cost synergies ahead We closely monitor current and forecast performance of our business of guidance.
We continue to focus on longer term opportunities to units and, where required, rebalance investment priorities.
grow through brand development and innovation, leveraging local and group brands.
Continued focus on quality of distribution and in-store presence to drive the rate of sale of Fruit Shoot in the United States and ongoing focus on growing the London Essence Company in major cities across the world.
Teisseire distribution and share increased in both Belgium and Holland.
SAFE AND HIGH-QUALITY PRODUCTS Principal risk Risk description A faulty or contaminated product, either through malicious contamination, The quality of our products is of the utmost importance to us and it is human error or equipment failure, is supplied to the market.
essential that we manage product quality and integrity.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments We have robust quality management standards applied and Continued focus on improving the management standards framework rigorously monitored.
and the monitoring and oversight processes used across the company.
We have supplier assurance and management processes.
Evolve and amend management systems and quality processes to We have dedicated central teams to oversee quality and supplier reect the new technology in the GB supply chain.
assurance, working closely with the business units.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 33 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED LEGAL AND REGULATORY Principal risk Risk description Non-compliance with local laws or regulations or breach of our internal Britvic is subject to a wide range of legislation, regulation, guidance policies and standards.
and codes of practice in areas such as labelling, packaging, marketing, advertising, safety, environment, competition, data privacy, ethical business and tax.
Failure to comply with such requirements could have a significant impact on our reputation and or incur financial penalties.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments Britvics code of conduct and key global policies are trained and rolled Creation of a dedicated compliance function led by the companys out to new joiners and the workforce at regular intervals.
We operate a programme of e-learning training for key global policies.
A programme was put in place to achieve readiness for the introduction We monitor processes to ensure compliance with all relevant legislation of General Data Protection Regulation GDPR in the EU on 25 May and regulations.
Ongoing data protection processes and compliance will be We work closely with our external advisors and the regulators, overseen by the Data Privacy Committee, which will be led by the government bodies and trade associations regarding current and future companys Global Head of Compliance.
legislation which would impact upon the company.
Continue to monitor changes in law and regulation and compliance Whistleblowing processes are in place.
TECHNOLOGY AND INFORMATION SECURITY Principal risk Risk description We experience a major failure of IT infrastructure or breach in system or We interact electronically with customers, suppliers and consumers, and information security.
our supply chain operations are dependent on reliable IT systems and infrastructure.
Disruption to our IT systems could have a significant impact on our sales, cashows and profits.
Additionally, and in common with many businesses, cyber security breaches could lead to unauthorised access to, or loss of, sensitive information.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments Disaster recovery plans tested every year.
We continue to see an increasing frequency in cyber-attacks including Central governance and decision-making processes for system changes.
phishing and ransomware in the marketplace.
We carry out regular Information and IT policies are in place and are regularly reviewed.
auditing and benchmarking to ensure that our approach to managing IT security standards are closely monitored to protect systems this risk is consistent with industry practice.
We have increased investment to improve information and cyber security Incident response plans are in place, recognising that whilst this risk can controls and cyber risk awareness.
be managed it cannot be eliminated.
The Chief Information, Transformation and Digital officer was appointed to the Executive team in 2018.
TREASURY AND PENSION Principal risk Risk description Changes to exchange rates and interest rates can have an impact on profits Britvic is exposed to a variety of external financial risks relating to treasury and cashows.
Changes to exchange rates and interest rates can have an impact on business results and the cost of interest on our debt.
Additionally, the GB and Ireland businesses have dened benefit pension plans which, whilst closed to new employees, are exposed to movements in interest and ination rates, values of assets and increased life expectancy.
Controls and mitigating activities 2018 developments Robust monitoring of exchange rates and interest rates.
The recent depreciation of sterling has led to higher input costs across Active risk management and hedging strategies are in place to manage a number of our key commodities.
Further the risk of a no-deal Brexit exchange and interest uctuations, overseen by the Treasury Committee.
could elevate this risk further.
We closely monitor and manage this risk Pension interest rate hedging strategies in place and regularly reviewed.
through a rolling 18 month hedging policy which is governed by the Monitoring of investment and funding strategies for pension fund.
