Trend indicates Increasing worsening Our principal risks and uncertainties our perception of Lessening improving pre-mitigation risk At a similar level Compliance risks Significant control failure link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 1 Deliver great customer experience Financial capital 2 Transform our costs Human capital Social capital Its crucial that we maintain high ethical standards.
We respect Theres also been an increase in legislation either enacted or proposed human rights and we dont tolerate fraud, bribery, any form of to address and report on human rights abuses by companies.
corruption or any illegal or unethical activity.
How were mitigating the risks We follow local and international law, including anti-corruption This year weve implemented a major programme of work to and bribery laws.
The UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Corrupt strengthen our controls and compliance activities, and ensure Practices Act FCPA have extraterritorial reach, so cover our global awareness of the standards we expect.
We also have to make sure we follow trade sanctions of inappropriate behaviours in our Italian business in the summer of and import and export controls.
We comply with the Modern 2016, we have also implemented wider controls that monitor our Slavery Act and follow international standards on human rights, overseas operations in our shared service centres, Global Services such as the International Labour Organisations Principles and the and at a group level, see page 92.
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Weve redefined and communicated our three lines of defence We also face the risks associated with inappropriate and unethical model, and strengthened our controls policies and procedures.
This behaviour in local and other markets by our people or associates, covered both financial and non-financial controls, and weve resuch as suppliers or agents, which can be difficult to detect.
There mapped our assurance coverage across the three lines of defence is also a risk that our controls, which are designed to prevent, for our principal risks and uncertainties.
This helped us identify detect and correct such behaviour may be circumvented.
Controls opportunities to improve our controls policies and procedures, as and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can well as to extend the assurance that operates over the controls.
provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and Were also building awareness and understanding, and all finance there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving employees have completed Financial Statement Fraud awareness its stated goals under all potential conditions, regardless of how training, including a module on how to escalate concerns.
Weve also put a number of other controls in place to address risk in Financial controls, and the assurance that exists over them, play an this area.
These include an anti-corruption and bribery programme important part in our ability to prevent and detect inappropriate and The Way We Work, our ethical code, available in 14 behaviour.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control languages.
We ask all our people to complete training and sign up over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
to The Way We Work which includes our zero tolerance to bribery Therefore even those systems determined to be effective can and corruption.
Weve developed a new guide this year, The BT provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial Way, which brings together for our people how were organised statement preparation and presentation.
and deliver for our customers, our ethical code and our values.
potential impact We have policies covering conflicts of interest, gifts and hospitality, charitable donations and sponsorship.
We also run tailored training If our people, or associates like suppliers or agents, breach anti-corruption, bribery, sanctions or other legislation there could for people in higher-risk roles like procurement and sales.
be significant penalties, criminal prosecution and damage to our We regularly weigh up our business integrity risks to make sure brand.
This could have an impact on future revenue and cash flow weve got the right mitigation in place.
Weve introduced an Ethics depending on the nature of the breach, the legislation concerned & Compliance Integrity Risk Dashboard.
It brings together various and any penalties.
If we were accused of corruption, bribery, indicators to better identify possible emerging trends or particular human rights abuses, violating sanctions regulations or other laws, hotspots.
The approach draws together various themes to look for it could lead to reputational damage with investors, regulators, patterns and establish any outliers across our business.
A breakdown in our financial control framework could result in financial misstatement.
All Speak Up reports are passed to the director of ethics and compliance for action.
Our confidential hotline is operated Whats changed over the last year?
by a third party and is available to employees and third-party Weve seen an increase in Speak Up BTs confidential hotline service contractors who can remain anonymous if they choose to.
Any reports and conflict of interest registrations.
In 2017 18 Speak Up reports received direct by BT are also dealt with in accordance reports increased by 63% on the previous year.
This is indicative of a withour Speak Up procedures.
culture where people are more aware and confident to tell us about their concerns.
Our internal audit team regularly runs checks on our business.
External providers also assess areas we think are higher risk such In terms of anti-corruption and bribery enforcement generally, as the use of agents, to make sure people understand our policies weve continued to see a steady flow of significant cases from both and that controls are working.
We do due diligence checks on third the UK Bribery Act and the FCPA.
In the US 11 companies paid a parties like suppliers, agents, resellers and distributors.
In 2017 18 total of $1.92 billion to resolve FCPA cases in 2017.
34 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion we completed 32 reviews of our existing agents resellers and bidding for customer contracts.
It identifies human rights risks and distributors.
We take a risk-based approach to these reviews, which links them to the sanctions approval process.
Weve run training and include external reviews, internal on-site reviews and desk-based calls to raise awareness of the tool.
Weve also carried out human reviews.
Our procurement contracts include anti-corruption and rights impact assessments on our operations in India, Russia and bribery clauses.
In addition all new suppliers, agents, resellers and China, and have developed an overarching human rights policy for distributors go through an on-boarding process which includes imminent launch.
We reported publicly on our most salient human financial checks and the use of our due diligence screening tool.
rights risks in our Privacy and Free Expression Report in 2015, which Existing suppliers, agents, resellers and distributors are additionally were updating in 2018 to include parts of our international business.
Our Human Rights Steering Group reviews our programme and discusses current issues.
Weve also been working closely with peers Our sanctions policy helps us keep track of trade sanctions and export through organisations like the Business Against Slavery Forum and controls that apply to us.
That means all bids involving a country Global Network Initiative.
which is subject to our sanctions policy requires approval.
The policy also mandates everyone in BT to use our internal shipping system to Despite our efforts, unfortunately not everyone gets it right every arrange international exports, as it runs compliance checks and flags time.
We disciplined 205 employees in the UK as a result of ethical a any orders which need an exportlicence.
misconduct this year, and 98 left the company.
The most common issues related to inappropriate use of company vehicles or falsified We launched a customer due diligence tool which we use when records such as timesheets.
Processing our customers data link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 1 Deliver great customer experience Financial capital Social capital We control and process huge quantities of customer data around On top of that, we could see huge reputational damage and big the world, so observing data privacy laws is something we take financial losses.
Those losses could come from fines and damages extremely seriously.
Its essential that individuals and businesses if we fail to meet our legal requirements, as well as costs resulting can trust us to do the right thing with their data.
from having to terminate customer contracts and the subsequent customer churn.
Companies whove had high profile data incidents We make sure our customers data is secure, and protected against have seen a significant impact to their share price and suffered both internal and external threats egcyber attacks.
Being trusted ongoing costs from their non-compliance.
with our customers data goes further than that though.
It means preserving the integrity of thepersonal data we process, and only Whats changed over the last year?
keeping the things we need to provide customers with the services The GDPR is deemed one of the biggest shake ups in data law theyve signed up for.
It also means being transparent around how for over a decade.
Its been created to update the existing law to we use customer data, who we share it with, making sure the way we ensure that individuals data is protected and secured and gives process personal data is legal, fair and in line with customers rights people a greater say as to how their data is used.
It also increases and wishes, and ensuring that we fulfil the legal obligations we have their rights as to how their personal data is kept, used and when customers want to exercise their rights under data legislation.
The sanctions for breaching the GDPR are significantly higher than under the previous regime, which could As a communications provider we currently operate under result in a substantial fine in the event of a breach.
a stringent reporting regime to tell the UK Information Commissioners Office ICO if we become aware of a personal Scrutiny from national regulators is increasing as companies are data security breach.
We must also tell any affected individuals monitored to ensure theyre working towards compliance with as quickly as possible if the incident is likely to have a significant the new law.
In addition within the last 12 months several large impact on them.
On 25 May 2018 EU General Data Protection companies have suffered further well-publicised data incidents and Regulation GDPR will come into force.
We are in the process of the general trend towards bigger financial penalties has increased.
implementing more stringent procedures around data protection in order to comply with the GDPR requirements, which may lead to How were mitigating the risks higher regulatory compliance costs.
Weve created a compliance programme to review all activities that involve customer data across the business in light of the An individuals fundamental right to privacy is reflected in the fact new regulatory requirements.
Our focus will be on protecting our that data privacy laws are in force in more than 100countries.
systems, enhancing our operational processes to protect customer The nature of those laws vary across different parts of the world.
data, and refreshing our training so that our people understand Increasingly we and other multinationals have toshow that were the importance of the data they handle.
handling personal data in line with a complex web of national data laws and societys ethical expectations.
We also want to give our people the tools they need to make everyday risk-based decisions around privacy and data protection potential impact without it being a burden or making their job more complicated.
Failing to stick to data protection and privacy laws could result in If we do that, theres a much better chance of data compliance regulatory enforcement action, significant fines, class-action, prison becoming business as usual.
For example, using Privacy Impact sentences and the regulator telling us to stop processing data.
Assessments when we develop new products and services makes a UK only, excluding EE and Plusnet.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 35 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Compliance risks sure everyone understands privacy issues from the start and builds assurance to make sure data compliance is embedded within the in the right controls, without any operational impact.
The Chief Privacy Officer and her team champion privacy Our mitigations against cyber attacks are described in our Security awareness, and are responsible for undertaking monitoring and and resilience risk page 43.
Health, safety and wellbeing link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 1 Deliver great customer experience Financial capital 2 Transform our costs Human capital Social capital Natural capital Our people are crucial to our business and if they feel safe, healthy weve reviewed cladding across the BT estate and were examining and happy they will perform better for our customers.
Working to a range of other aspects of fire safety.
reduce the risk of harm to our people helps us comply with health and safety laws wherever we operate.
The pace and scale of change within the business has also continued to accelerate and were aware this has a psychological Many of our people, especially our UK engineers, work for much impact on our people.
The risk of epidemic disease is constant: this of the time in community settings where we have limited control year our main focus has been on pneumonic plague and influenza.
Much of the network is carried above ground level and temporary work at height is a major How were mitigating the risks risk for us over the course of a year our people will undertake Weve got a company wide and Board-endorsed health, safety millions of climbing jobs.
All of our people work in a fast-paced and wellbeing strategy which has been refreshed this year.
The and highly competitive sector where change is constant and Board receives a bi-annual report which tracks key performance psychological pressures are significant.
Managing physical and indicators and which forms the basis of a discussion of emerging psychological hazards is therefore complex.
The strategy is cascaded through the chief executive to the operational businesses, each of which formulates its own plans potential impact and targets on an annual basis.
We work to make sure our people go home safely every day.
Any health and safety failure could result in injury to our people or members of the At an operational level, our managers take responsibility for public, financial penalties, and or reputational damage.
making sure their teams know how to comply with health and safety standards.
We monitor compliance using annual licensing, The wellbeing of our colleagues is important if were to transform our scheduled refresher training, competency assessments and business while continuing to recruit, retain and engage our workforce accreditation processes for higher-risk groups.
All our people to deliver a great customer experience and grow the business.
An undertake training in basic health and safety.
Progress is adverse reaction to change could impact talent retention, resulting in monitored by a company wide health, safety and wellbeing forum a loss of critical skills and greater need for external recruitment, which chaired by the Group HR Director.
Professional input is provided would add cost to the business.
Poor engagement also raises the risk through a central centre of expertise which supplements advisers of general industrial unrest andaction.
Whats changed over the last year?
This year weve completed a liability review and a material controls Changes in technology and working practices help to reduce the audit, both of which highlighted competency, accreditation physical risks to our people.
For example, the shift from copper to and assurance as areas for attention.
Were undertaking a fibre in the network means our work involves less heavy manual comprehensive revision of our health and safety training, with labour, reducing the risk of musculo-skeletal disorders as a an emphasis on higher-risk activities.
We make sure that training result.
Conversely, people increasingly seek to attribute common is externally accredited where possible and were extending the health problems to past work activity with the aim of securing accreditation of our management systems where appropriate.
compensation, and the regulatory environment is getting harsher.
Weve adopted a three lines of defence approach and were enhancing our first and second lines of assurance as a result of In parallel, a change in our workforce is increasing risks in areas such audit recommendations.
Were procuring a new IT system which as driving.
Weve had a mature workforce with little labour turnover will help us better capture and share information.
That cadre is reaching retirement age at the same time as demand for our products and services is increasing, and so We provide comprehensive support to our people to enhance were recruiting large numbers of younger people.
The new intake their wellbeing.
We provide extensive guidance on promoting has a different risk attitude, combined with less experience, so we good physical, psychological and emotional health.
We launched need to make sure we put in additional safeguards with less reliance this year a major programme on healthy change management.
on expertise and individual judgement.
We train our managers to identify the early signs of distress and how to deal with them.
This year weve supplemented that with a The pace of upgrading the network, fixed and mobile, has peer support scheme that uses our peoples experience of mental continued to accelerate.
That increases our civil engineering ill health to help their colleagues.
We provide funded treatment workload and the hazards and risks associated with that type of services for mental health and musculo-skeletal disorders and work.
The Grenfell Tower fire has raised awareness of fire issues have achieved a 95% rehabilitation rate.
36 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Strategic and financial risks Competition and technology risks link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 3 Invest for growth Financial capital Intellectual capital Our markets are characterised by intensifying competition from Support for a large-scale deployment of FTTP infrastructure established players and new entrants.
This competition compounds among key stakeholders has increased.
However, there is still some of the external challenges that we see in the market place, material uncertainty as to whether a viable economic case can be notably: found for large-scale deployment.
The economic case for FTTP remains challenging given superfast broadband coverage now fixed broadband and mobile connectivity nearing saturation, with exceeds 90% and the majority of end users are currently only most segments of the UK telecoms markets now growing below willing to pay a low premium for additional speeds.
the rate of inflation customers seeking fast migration from higher-margin legacy How were mitigating the risks products to fully digitised, converged, secure, faultless solutions Weve evolved our strategy to reflect this environment, with efficient markets demanding clear differentiation for premium renewed focus on: pricing, driving price deflation of basic connectivity and data high exit barriers, prolonging and intensifying competition even delivering differentiated customer experiences: when selected companies in the sector are struggling to generate investing in integrated network leadership: economic returns.
Technology change is also a key characteristic of our sector.
We need We believe this is the best way for us to stay ahead of our to be able to identify emerging technologies, assess how customers competitors and to generate long-term, sustainable value will adopt these technologies, and invest accordingly, frequently a growth.
Were also working with stakeholders to help develop an long-time before the demand materialises.
We also need to respond environment that both encourages and facilitates investment in a to changes in the use of existing technology, such as the exponential large-scale FTTP environment.
growth the sector has seen in data consumption and network capacity requirements.
We also keep a close eye on technology developments that could impact us achieving our strategic goals, including through our Board potential impact Technology Committee.
This Committee, chaired by the CEO, agrees Intensified competition can result in lower volumes and or prices our technology strategies, monitors emerging trends and oversees than we currently forecast.
If we do not respond effectively to technology risk management across the group.
competition then we can lose market share, revenue and or profit.
In addition, new technology developments can lead to accelerated obsolescence of our current products, increased investment requirements, new sources of competition and or the deterioration of our competitive position.
This in turn can result in lower volumes and prices, stranded assets and higher costs.
A failure to invest optimally in technology today can have implications for our market position and ability to generate future returns.
Set against a challenging economic climate, in which the outlook for the UK economy has deteriorated, our leading competitors have been very active over the last 12 months.
Important developments included: a move into fibre through a partnership with an existing provider expansion of existing UK fibre networks the launch of zero-rated mobile data propositions.
Technological developments and changing customer preferences also continue to create risk to our business model.
For example: While mobile data usage continues to grow, prices per gigabyte of network traffic have continued to fall.
The ongoing profitability of our mobile operations hinges on our being able to successfully monetise mobile data growth in the face of strong competition.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 37 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic and financial risks continued Communications industry regulation link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 1 Deliver great customer experience Financial capital 2 Transform our costs Manufactured capital Regulation affects much of what we do.
They have also decided not to impose a temporary remedy requiring BT to provide a restricted form of In the UK, where Ofcom identifies competition concerns in dark fibre at and below 1Gbit s in the leased lines markets, but communications markets, it can set rules requiring us to provide will consider this again in their upcoming business connectivity certain services on specified terms to our customers.
We have summarised this on page 29. reviews markets regularly and can introduce, extend, relax or remove rules as a result of its findings.
It has powers to conduct We successfully appealed Ofcoms Business Connectivity Market specific investigations about market behaviour, including price Review BCMR statement to the Competition Appeal Tribunal levels.
In addition, Ofcom can set out rules for spectrum auctions which found in our favour and remitted the decision back to and to ensure consumer protection in the sector.
It has also started its next market review on BCMR.
Ofcom will investigate our compliance with regulatory In the retail market, Ofcom also expressed concerns in relation requirements and can impose fines and restitution on us if we fail to the prices charged to voice-only customers.
to Ofcoms concerns by agreeing to cut those prices.
Weve also introduced an automatic compensation scheme for slow repairs, Following the Governments rejection of our voluntary missed appointments and delayed installations.
Ofcom has also commitment, a broadband universal service will now be delivered revised the General Conditions and the changes will come into through a regulatory obligation.
We acknowledge the impact that force in October 2018. this will have on industry and the risks attached to a regulatory broadband USO.
We will work hard with Ofcom to find a solution Alongside the standard cycle of market reviews, weve been that works for our customers and society, and that minimises the working hard to deliver on the Commitments made to Ofcom in distortions for industry.
March 2017 as part of its Digital Communications Review.
Weve made significant progress in this area, and have now introduced Ofcom also has powers to regulate the terms on which were changes to our internal processes to ensure that we comply with supplied with certain services by others for instance, mobile call both the letter and spirit of the commitments.
termination and can sort out disputes between us and other communications providers about the terms on which services are How were mitigating the risks supplied.
Appeals of regulatory decisions also give rise to risks and We have a strong team of regulatory and policy specialists.
Together with legal experts, compliance and operational teams they guard against potential risks and look for opportunities to Outside the UK, regulation defines where and how we are able to positively shape the regulatory regime at the right time and in the compete through licensing rules and defining the terms on which right way.
They engage regularly with regulators, government, we are able to access networks of incumbent operators.
consumer organisations and other key stakeholders to build trust and to understand their outlook.
They communicate our positions potential impact in a clear, consistent and straightforward way.
Their insight also Some of our revenue comes from supplying wholesale services helps us to forecast future regulatory outcomes.
We can then to markets where Ofcom has found us to have significant market build sensible assumptions into our financial plans and investment power.
Most of this revenue relates to services where regulation decisions.
requires us to cut average prices each year by a specific, real-term percentage for a three-year period.
We push for clear, predictable and proportionate regulation that enables BT to succeed by delivering what customers and society Where other telecoms providers ask Ofcom to resolve disputes want.
Whenever there are market reviews, charge controls, with us, there is a risk that Ofcom may set the prices at which we disputes or investigations, we submit evidence and analysis.
This supply services, make us provide additional services and or impact helps us manage the risks around decisions in any particular year.
how we structure our business.
In some circumstances, Ofcom can adjust past prices and make us pay back amounts to wholesale We can judicially review regulatory decisions and appeal to customers.
We can also raise disputes or complain under the relevant regulatory framework or competition Regulation outside the UK can hit our revenue too.
For example, law where we have problems getting access to wholesale services overly-restrictive licensing requirements or ineffective regulation or to other access networks.
of access to other networks mean we might not be able to compete fairly.
Regulation can also define and control the terms of Were also working hard to deliver a great customer experience, access to necessary regulated inputs, which raises our costs.
going beyond our minimum regulatory obligations.
Ofcom has concluded market reviews in relation to wholesale narrowband access, wholesale local access and wholesale 38 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Political risk link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 1 Deliver great customer experience Financial capital 3 Invest for growth Human capital Social capital Across our operations we are exposed to the effects of political Whats changed over the last year?
and geopolitical risks, in particular: This has been a complex year, given the 2017 General Election, EU Withdrawal Bill, Brexit negotiations and other policy measures.
A In the UK, internet access is increasingly seen as an essential second Scottish Independence Referendum became less imminent part of peoples lives.
As a result, political debate continues to as the SNP has a significantly reduced number of Scottish seats focus on network coverage, quality and speed of service, as albeit a majority still.
In December 2017, the Government well as broader issues of online safety and security.
As well as reached agreement in principle with the EU on divorce measures providing a critical element of the UKs national infrastructure, around people, money and Irish border principles: negotiations both fixed and wireless, were also engaged in supporting early in 2018 focused on finalising withdrawal issues and also high-profile programmes such as BDUK and the Emergency moved on to transition and trading arrangements.
relationship the UK EU will end up with and by when is unclear.
The result of the UK referendum to leave the European Union Brexit significantly increased political uncertainty.
This In the UK, the conclusion of Ofcoms Digital Communications continues to impact political debates around the United Review DCR has resolved some of the uncertainties that Kingdom, such as the possibility of a second Scottish affected BT 12 months ago.
The agreement we reached with Independence referendum and the complex situation in Ofcom at the conclusion of the review has led to the creation of Northern Ireland including border matters.
a new, independent board for Openreach, which is working well.
Outside the UK, political and geopolitical risk can impact our Openreach is doing its own independent work to plan its fibre business through changes in the regulatory and competitive rollout, in open consultation with the rest of the industry.
The landscape an example is the US Administrations changed Government has now established a Future Telecoms Infrastructure approach to trade policy - but also as a direct threat to our Review, which we hope can provide additional certainty for people and assets as a result of social unrest or a breakdown in companies and investors about how the policy and regulatory the rule of law.
framework can promote long-term decision-making and, as a consequence, underpin future 5G and fibre deployment.
potential impact Political uncertainty can have direct financial consequences across How were mitigating the risks the economy, impacting for example foreign exchange rates, the We maintain strong engagement with the UK Government, availability and cost of capital, interest rates and also resulting in key departments, MPs, peers, the media and with business and changes in the tax regime.
For BT specifically, the most significant consumer bodies.
We also engage closely with governments and impact of political risk is its potential interaction with some of our politicians in Brussels and in our key markets around the world.
In the UK, were seeing an increasing overlap seek to inform public debate around telecommunications through between political debate and the regulatory environment, with fact-based evidence concerning the market and our role within it.
the potential that our Communications Industry Regulation risk increases as a result.
Weve progressed the programme across the business to help us understand and manage the risks associated with Brexit.
This The impacts of Brexit are still uncertain while the UKs future also considered other potential impacts such as those associated trading and transition relationship with the EU is determined, with a second Scottish Independence referendum, and the albeit the agreement in principle on a number of withdrawal border questions on the island of Ireland, and is led by a steering measures was welcome, notably the commitment to protect group chaired by the group CFO.
Weve also offered our views to the rights of EU citizens living in the UK and vice versa.
There is Government, Parliament and business groups on related policy the potential for our costs to increase, for example through any areas, such as R&D, data flows, trade and people skills matters.
changes required to our systems to reflect new taxes or customs duties or other processes.
Our regulatory risk could increase Outside the UK, our Public Affairs and regulatory teams work if there were to be future divergence with the EU regime.
Our to help support governments and regulators in ensuring that suppliers may face disruption as a result of challenges in their own markets work in an open and fairly regulated way for the benefit organisations and supply chains.
Also, delivering a great customer of customers and competition.
Geopolitical risks are closely experience and great network will become more challenging if it monitored, with our security and business continuity teams is harder for us to recruit and retain skilled talent and to source particularly focused on protecting our people and our assets.
The UK economy may also suffer as a result of this uncertainty.
Geopolitical risk outside the UK can most clearly impact our Communications Industry Regulation risk, but also our Security and Resilience risks where it poses a threat to the continuity of our operations.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 39 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic and financial risks continued BREXIT There continues to be significant how we managed the risk uncertainty following the UKs vote to We decided early on that we needed to understand what risks and opportunities Brexit might create for us, so ahead of the vote leave the European Union EU.
We are we set up a programme bringing together functions across the making sure that were prepared for the business.
final outcome of negotiations between We then ramped up the activity after the vote, forming a steering the UK and the EU.
We also wish to help group chaired by the group CFO.
Over the last two years or so, inform the debate where relevant to our it has overseen work that is being done by various sub-projects.
These are looking at areas such as the tax, people, procurement, systems, regulatory and commercial impacts of Brexit.
This year weve continued to offer our views to government on related policy areas, including responding to Parliamentary inquiries and consultation documents on migration and on trade for instance, and working with business and sector associations to explain issues.
Weve also progressed our contingency planning, including identifying when we might need to put these plans into effect.
The result, and what we learnt The nature of the Brexit negotiations have created a period of prolonged uncertainty.
The readiness work that weve undertaken across the business means we can provide confidence of our resilience to our people, our customers and our suppliers.
40 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Pensions link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 2 Transform our costs Financial capital Human capital Social capital We have a large funding obligation to our defined benefit different factors are taken into account, including yields or returns DB pension schemes.
The largest of these, the BT Pension on government bonds.
If assets returns are lower than expected Scheme BTPS or Scheme, represents over 97% of our pension over the period to the next valuation, or a lower future investment obligations.
The BTPS faces similar risks to other UK DB schemes: return assumption is adopted at the 30 June 2020 valuation, the things like future low investment returns, high inflation, longer deficit would likely increase, potentially leading to a higher level of life expectancy and regulatory changes may all mean the BTPS future deficit payments.
becomes more of a financial burden.
In March 2018, we announced the closure of Sections B and C of the BTPS to future benefit accrual which represents more than potential impact The next valuation of the BTPS is scheduled to take place as at 99% of the BTPS active membership, having reached agreement with the relevant Unions.
Although we will establish a new 30 June 2020 and an increase in the pension deficit may have an impact on the level of deficit payments we are required to make hybrid pension arrangement for non-management employees in the BTPS at closure, the changes reduce the financial risks into the Scheme.
Indirectly it may also have an adverse impact on our share price and credit rating.
associated with providing future defined benefit pension accrual.
We currently expect to close Sections B and C of the BTPS from Any deterioration in our credit rating would increase our cost of 30June 2018 when employees will join the BT Retirement Savings Scheme, our main defined contribution arrangement, for borrowing and may limit the availability or flexibility of future funding for the group, thereby affecting our ability to invest, pay future pension accrual.
dividends or repay debt as it matures.
How were mitigating the risks Whats changed over the last year?
The investment performance and liability experience are regularly reviewed by both us and the Trustee of the BTPS.
We also consider The actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 30 June 2017 was announced in May 2018.
This provides certainty over the level the associated risks and possible mitigations.
The investment strategy aims to partly mitigate the impact of increases in the of cash contributions required until the next triennial valuation is concluded, taking place no later than as at 30 June 2020. liabilities, for example by investing in assets that will increase in value if future inflation expectations rise.
The assets held are also As part of the actuarial valuation, we discussed the Schemes well diversified, softening the impact of sharp drops in the value of individual asset classes.
This helps us maintain a reasonable approach to investing assets with the Trustee.
The resulting changes which should help protect the BTPS from volatile balance of risk and return.
investment returns and high inflation by investing in a way which provides greater certainty over the Schemes ability to meet Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of protection against the impact of changes in the funding position benefit payments over the longer term.
The funding liabilities also include a buffer against future negative experience, as legislation requires that we When a valuation is calculated, the funding position is affected by the financial market conditions at the valuation date.
When calculate liabilities on a prudent basis.
determining expected future returns on the Scheme assets, British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 41 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial risk link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 2 Transform our costs Financial capital 3 Invest for growth Social capital In common with other major international businesses, were Whats changed over the last year?
exposed to a variety of financial risks.
These include treasury risks, We continue to face the same treasury risks as in financial year which arise principally from market risk including interest rate 2016 17. risk and foreign exchange risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk.
They also include tax risk, principally that we need to understand fully From a taxation perspective, our business continues to evolve the current and future tax consequences of business decisions rapidly, creating different tax consequences, for example the to comply with tax rules and avoid financial and reputational bringing together of EE and the BT Consumer customer-facing damage.
units, the Openreach industry consultation on large-scale FTTP, and a review of our pension provision.
During the year, new UK potential impact legislation was introduced, which restricts deductions for interest If there is an adverse movement in foreign exchange and interest expense and which reduced the ability to offset profits with prior rates there could be a negative impact on the groups profitability, year losses.
Accounting changes can also have tax consequences, cash flow, and balance sheet.
Sensitivity in the income statement for example, forthcoming changes to accounting for revenue and shareholders equity arising from interest rate and foreign from contracts with customers and accounting for leases.
Global exchange volatility is shown in note 25 to the consolidated tax rules also continue to evolve, for example the OECDs Base financial statements.
Erosion and Profit Shifting project, US tax reform, the European Commissions challenge to tax practices under state aid provisions, The failure of Treasury counterparties to honour financial and EC and UK proposals for the introduction of an interim obligations could have an adverse impact on the groups liquidity digital services tax.
All these change the current and future tax for example from the loss of cash deposits and profitability for consequences of business decisions.
example from increased finance expenses.
A deterioration in liquidity could have an adverse impact on the Boards assessment How were mitigating the risks of going concern, particularly if combined with an inability to We have a centralised treasury function whose primary role is refinance maturing debt.
to manage liquidity and funding requirements as well as our exposure to associated financial and market risks, including If we fail to comply with tax rules then we could face financial credit risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, in-line penalties and reputational damage.
Beyond compliance, if we with Board-approved policies.
These risk management policies dont adequately reflect the current and future tax consequences are described in detail in note 25 to the Consolidated Financial in our business decisions, we might make bad decisions resulting Statements.
The Board reviews liquidity and funding requirements in financial loss and potentially financial misstatements, as well as of the group on an ongoing basis.
A strong governance framework is also at the heart of our mitigation approach to tax risk.
Weve a framework for managing taxes that is set centrally and agreed by the Board.
We employ suitably qualified professionals to manage and assure the operation of this framework.
We seek to pay tax in accordance with the laws of the countries where we do business.
However, in some areas these laws are unclear, and it can take many years to agree an outcome with a tax authority or through litigation.
Nevertheless, we always seek open and constructive working relationships with tax authorities worldwide, engaging reputable independent advice where required.
42 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Operational risks Security and resilience link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 1 Deliver great customer experience Financial capital Intellectual capital Manufactured capital Our commercial success is firmly rooted in our reputation for the trialling further AI innovations that will detect network anomalies security and resilience of our services.
So we strive to maintain the in large volumes of data, and learn patterns of how malware highest standards of protection and incident management in order propagates.
to confront the natural perils, network and system faults, and malicious acts that threaten our operations.
Looking at other drivers of service interruption, 2017 18 has been relatively benign for the UK in terms of extreme weather By monitoring cyber attacks on our networks and systems and events.
However, accepting that the risk is increasing, weve our peers and customers, we see that hacking tools, phishing continued to enhance our overall flood storm preparedness.
Weve scams and disruptive malware are becoming more sophisticated also been working with the Government and other utilities in and yet more accessible to attackers.
In response, we continue to planning for a Black Start major shutdown of the national power develop our cyber defence capability and invest more in automatic transmission system scenario.
We recognise that services can also be interrupted by events such as supply chain failure, software How were mitigating the risks changes, equipment faults, fire, flood, infrastructure outages and Were making risk improvements involving people, processes and sabotage.
technology - prioritising the work according to our assessments of security and resilience exposure.
The proportion of our network potential impact and systems that is monitored and logged continuously is rising The consequences of security and resilience risks can include steadily, and the security awareness of our employees is being major financial loss, long-term damage to reputation and loss of enhanced by advanced training modules and mock phishing market share.
Regulatory sanctions, fines and contract penalties exercises.
might be applied, contracts might be terminated, and costly concessions might be needed, together with unplanned and rapid Segmentation of our IT estate at the data centre level is now improvements to retain business and rebuild trust.
We might complete, and were turning our attention to micro-segmentation also miss opportunities to grow revenue and launch new services at the applications level as we provision new cloud-based systems.
The results of Red Team exercises by our ethical hackers are driving improvements across BT, particularly where access controls Whats changed over the last year?
are found to need upgrading.
Weve also been tightening our control of sensitive personal data in preparation for the EU GDPR.
Cyber attackers are learning how to defeat conventional defences such as Anti-Virus AV, proxy servers, and basic authentication.
This has prompted significant improvements in our IT inventory, which in turn makes it easier to manage major cyber incidents.
They are changing malware signatures faster than AV vendors can deliver matching identity files, launching Denial of Service DoS Mobile, geographically dispersed, emergency response capabilities attacks that are disguised as legitimate traffic at the application level, and using increasingly convincing phishing emails to are now operating at full designed capability.
Weve built on our site-specific flood defence plans, and completed specialist flood trick users into giving access to restricted systems.
The growth in ransomware attacks has made headline news and caused surveys of our most critical at risk assets, with a view during 2018 19 to deploying permanent flood defences as appropriate.
significant disruption to some of our corporate customers, but we have so far managed to avoid such consequences.
Our incident Members of our Emergency Response Team were deployed management teams are gaining experience from these events and applying lessons learned to improve our responses.
Were also to the Caribbean to utilise their skills in providing emergency communications in response to hurricanes Irma and Maria.
They helping customers by sharing this expertise.
were also able to use our improved approach to supporting community isolation situations in assisting the emergency services Weve increased the use of Artificial Intelligence AI in our cybersecurity operations to process the vast amount of data following the Grenfell Tower tragedy.
We use our own Saturn system to visually filter the information and help our analysts perform investigations.
Were British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 43 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks continued Employee engagement link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 1 Deliver great customer experience Human capital Our people are central to everything we do and a vital part of our We continue to work through the people implications of making ambition to deliver a great customer experience and sustainable, Openreach a separate legal entity in response to the outcome profitable revenue growth.
Our people strategy supports this of the Digital Communications Review.
We also announced the ambition by creating an inclusive and enjoyable workplace so creation of a new Consumer team that brings together the BT that our people can thrive as part of a dynamic business.
Great Consumer and EE businesses.
employee engagement is necessary to ensure we meet our strategic aims.
How were mitigating the risks Weve undertaken extensive consultation with unions, works potential impact councils and employee representatives as part of a comprehensive We need to transform our business while also continuing to global engagement strategy designed to engender positive recruit, retain and engage our workforce to deliver a great employee relations.
We help employees understand the reasons customer experience and grow the business.
An adverse reaction for change and the impact it may have on them, while also to change could impact talent retention resulting in a loss of working to protect service to customers.
critical skills and greater need for external recruitment, which would add cost to the business.
Poor engagement also raises the The review of pension arrangements includes a proposal to risk of general industrial unrest and action.
enhance our defined contribution pension scheme to help provide an adequate income in retirement for all of our employees.
Weve Whats changed over the last year?
continued to streamline our management structure to move decision making closer to the frontline customer teams and We limited pensionable pay increases for some members of the BT pension scheme and subsequently initiated a review of our speed up the decision-making process to deliver better customer outcomes.
Weve also simplified our performance appraisal UK pension arrangements.
Following the review, we decided to close the BTPS to ensure that our pension arrangements are fair, process, reducing the frequency of assessment and the number of performance categories to free up time for line managers to talk flexible and affordable for both employees and BT, which included enhancements to our defined contribution pension scheme.
with their people and focus on developing their capabilities.
Change management link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 1 Deliver great customer experience Human capital 2 Transform our costs 3 Invest for growth We are implementing a wide-ranging change programme across the significant improvements over the last year.
If our transformation entire organisation known as One BT.
We need to continue to deliver programmes do not deliver their intended customer benefits, or differentiated customer experiences, whilst being able to have the divert colleagues attention away from serving our customers, then financial capacity to invest in integrated network leadership.
At the we may suffer a reduction in the quality of the service we provide, same time, we want BT to be a simple and agile business where our and as a result incur customer churn and even financial penalties in people can thrive.
In transforming our operating model, we need to manage this Whats changed over the last year?
change carefully to ensure it delivers the desired outcomes.
We Over the past year, our key changes have included: recognise that such extensive change can also be a distraction and can cause uncertainty amongst our colleagues, so its important that the launch of a pan-BT transformation programme, One BT, we keep focused on delivering for our customers.
which is designed to help our businesses deliver to their full potential potential impact bringing together BT Consumer, EE and Plusnet into a new If we do not manage our change programmes carefully then they Consumer business will not deliver the business outcomes that we are trying to achieve.
ongoing work to deliver a new Digital Global Services That could result in poorer customer experiences, negative impacts announcing the integration of our Wholesale and Ventures and on employee engagement, or potential overspend on the projects Business and Public Sector businesses into a new Enterprise themselves, and at the end of the programmes we may not have business achieved the efficient processes needed to deliver a great customer announcing our plans to introduce a new People Framework, experience, the desired cost savings, or differentiated products and which will include a particular focus on our middle and seniorservices we were trying to launch.
management grades as we describe elsewhere in the Annual Report, weve also been As we describe elsewhere in the Annual Report, weve been working making changes to our Openreach business to implement Ofcoms hard on improving our customers experiences, and have seen Digital Communications Review.
44 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion How were mitigating the risks expert team that is building capability and providing direct support We apply a formal structure and governance to our key change to HR, communications, change teams and our leaders in the programmes for example, One BT has a full-time Programme business.
Change programmes are also supported by our Customer and Enterprise Transformation Weve also maintained a close focus on our people and our culture, team.
By bringing together several transformation teams into one, launching a number of specific and focused leadership capability we are able to ensure that our internal change programmes are codevelopment programmes to help our leaders manage their people ordinated and remain focused on delivering for our customers.
The through a period of extensive change whilst also delivering the best Customer and Enterprise Transformation team tracks programme possible customer experiences.
delivery against targets for the Transformation Committee, Executive Committee and Board.
The Transformation Committee Organisational change can cause uncertainty amongst colleagues, meets weekly to make key decisions and to set the pace of change.
and we communicate closely with our unions and works councils in designing, announcing and implementing changes.
Our We recognise the importance of having the skills, capabilities, engagement strategy allows us to monitor employee engagement methods and tools to define and deliver change in the right way.
So on a regular basis, informing any interventions that we feel weve developed a new change approach, and have put in place an necessary.
Supply chain link to strategy in year Trend link to business model 1 Deliver great customer experience Financial capital 2 Transform our costs Social capital Human capital Natural capital We operate in a global supply market.
Our supply chains range Whats changed over the last year?
from simple to very complex.
Its critical to our operations that we We dedicate time to assessing emerging geopolitical threats and can guarantee their integrity and continuity.
the impact they could have on our supply chain.
These include the impacts of the UK leaving the EU in March 2019: the threat of Global markets expose us to global risks, including different modern slavery and human trafficking: and the growing threat of standards in labour, environmental and climate change practices, cyber attacks on our systems and networks.
increasing regulation and geopolitical events.
We weigh up the impact and likelihood of external market forces on our suppliers We continue to monitor the trend for mergers and acquisitions in ability to support us.
some of the global markets we do business in.
It highlights the risk of us becoming too dependent on single or monopolistic suppliers.
Globalisation means better sourcing opportunities, but brings We also try to make sure that suppliers do not become too challenges if suppliers become more geographically and culturally dependent on us.
Both scenarios are unhealthy for our business.
remote from our customers or if governments put barriers in the way of doing business to protect national or regional economic This year one of our more significant suppliers, Carillion, went into interests.
However, by implementing our risk and governance arrangements we were able to manage and reduce the disruption Our dealings with suppliers follow our trading and ethical policies.
From the way we choose them, to the contracts we sign and how we pay them.
How were mitigating the risks We have a few really critical suppliers.
We keep a close watch on potential impact our relationships, their performance and their ability to meet their If something goes wrong in our supply chain, the speed and scale obligations.
We tell the business when to prepare for the risk of of impact can vary.
We need to determine the potential damage a supplier failing, and our senior leaders continually review how to customer experience, the likelihood of higher costs and the ready we are for such events.
potential damage to our brand.
If substituting a failing supplier meant that we had to disrupt our business, it could cost us a lot We make sure we exercise the right amount of due diligence of time and money.
If we couldnt find an alternative supplier, it when it comes to introducing new suppliers and continuing to might compromise the commitments we make to our customers, do business with existing ones.
That includes checks on company which could in turn lead to breach of contract, lost revenue or finances, business systems, accreditations, media reputation and penalties.
The standards we apply to our suppliers are available on selling2bt.
com If any link in our supply chain falls foul of the law, or fails to meet our ethical expectations, that could damage our reputation We manage our top suppliers according to the contracts theyve possibly leading to legal action and lost revenue.
We work with them to find better ways of working, reducing our exposure to risks around poor supplier practices in If we dont meet the expectations of regulators that govern us and the process.
the data we manage, it could result in significant penalties.
In the case of EU General Data Protection Regulation 2018, this could Were also continually looking to improve our response to amount to 4% of our global annual turnover.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 45 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks continued Major contracts link to strategy in year link to business model Trend 1 Deliver great customer experience Financial capital 2 Transform our costs 3 Invest for growth We have a number of complex and high-value national and Whats changed over the last year?
The revenue and profitability We have extended our Gold Standard quality programme to our of these contracts are affected by things like: variation in cost: Contract Accounting and financial management activities.
Our achieving cost savings anticipated in contract pricing both in major contracts are assessed against strict gold standard criteria terms of scale and time : delays in achieving agreed milestones and those contract teams below the benchmark will be developed owing to factors either in or out of our control: changes in coached for improvement in order to attain the standard.
customers needs, their budgets, strategies or businesses: and our suppliers performance.
Any of these factors could make a contract Tough market conditions continue and the impact of the UK less profitable or even loss-making.
voting to leave the EU has meant some customer programmes have been delayed, which has had an impact on the business.
The degree of risk varies with the scope and life of the contract Customers are asking for more flexibility in their contracts.
and is typically higher in the early stages.
Some customer contracts need investment in the early stages, which we then The majority of our first phase of BDUK contracts have now expect to recover over the life of the contract.
Were now nearing the contractual end dates of the second phase of contracts SEP.
In Major contracts often involve implementing new systems and addition, we have further extended numerous existing contracts and communications networks, transforming legacy networks, begun deployment of the third phase of contracts.
While these later managing customer networks and developing new technologies.
phase contracts are smaller in scale and coverage, the deployment Delays or missed milestones might have an impact on us challenges are significantly greater in terms of the geography recovering these upfront costs.
Theres a substantial performance encountered as we reach further into the final 5% of households.
risk throughout the term of some of these highly-complex contracts.
While our broadband contracts and ESN carry a different risk profile to other major corporate contracts, we apply our potential impact governance and reporting processes to make sure we identify risks If we dont manage to meet our commitments under these and mitigation activities and report them to management.
contracts or if customers needs, budgets, strategies or businesses change then our expected future revenue, How were mitigating the risks profitability and cash generation may go down.
Unexpectedly At both group and corporate unit level we have governance, risk high costs associated with fulfilling particular transformational management and reporting processes in place.
Independent contracts could also hit profitability.
Contracts audits and the checks and balances in individual contracts may even become loss-making through loss of revenue, changes provide assurance through an independent review programme.
to customers businesses due to, for example, mergers or To track progress, we monitor how were doing on these risks and acquisitions, business failure or contract termination.
mitigation actions, and report the result to senior management.
A separate, dedicated team provides assurance for our BDUK and One of our highest profile contracts is providing a key element ESN projects.
of the UK Emergency Services Network ESN on our EE mobile network.
The complexities described above all apply to this The BT Academy supports skills development and learning programme.
This service is delivered with several partners and initiatives.
These help our Contract Management Profession to managed by the Home Office.
The Home Office has delayed the better identify and manage risk.
We also update new training launch date and further delays will impact the expected income.
collateral whenever we learn something new.
In 2017 18 we Furthermore, the criticality of this service increases our risk introduced a Gold Standard sustainability measure to ensure our exposure once its live, and given the network provides emergency contracts continue to operate at the highest possible standard.
services communications for the UK, performance in life of the network could have reputational consequences for BT.
We continue to invest in risk training, and assess the management of our contracts against a best practice framework weve Were continuing to deliver contracts with local authorities through developed based on our knowledge of running and managing regional fibre deployment programmes, including the Broadband major programmes.
Were also investing and growing our contract Delivery UK programme BDUK.
As with our other major contracts, management expertise through the provision of accredited if we fail to deliver these contracts successfully it might lead to contract management training.
reduced future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
As well as carrying a higher reputational risk, these contracts present specific risks around deployment, delivery and our ability to recover public funding.
We also have an obligation to potentially either reinvest or repay grant funding depending on lots of different factors including how many customers take up a new service.
46 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Use of Artificial Intelligence to help contract management Developing an in-depth understanding of our obligations and performance across our entire major contracts portfolio is challenging.
However, it is imperative if we are to manage risk and deliver a great customer experience.
how we managed the risk Weve introduced an Artificial Intelligence AI capability to improve the efficiency and accuracy when analysing Major Contracts contained in the contract lifecycle management system.
The result, and what we learnt Our AI capability promises many benefits which we expect to increasingly evolve in support of Major Contract management, benefiting both BT and our customers.
Analysing big data has improved our revenue assurance capability as well as identifying risk trends across obligations on our more bespoke contracts.
Finally, its helped us to understand the consequences of changes to legislation, regulation or market impacts on our complex contracts.
Sharing malware data with ISPs Cyber threats pose a risk to our entire industry.
In our efforts to protect customers and businesses from global cyber-crime, weve taken industry collaboration to a new level.
how we managed the risk In February 2018 we became the first telecommunications provider in the world to start sharing information about malicious software and websites on a large scale with other internet service providers ISPs.
We launched a free collaborative online platform to share our threat intelligence data across the ISP community in a secure and trusted way.
Were now urging other UK broadband providers to follow our lead.
The result, and what we learnt Were sharing data relating to malware because we believe the most effective way to bolster the UKs defences against cybercrime is through greater collaboration and the exchange of information.
If other ISPs join us in actively sharing threat intelligence data, this will help the entire industry to develop and strengthen a collective shield which will help to protect all customers.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 47
