STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT the year with formal reviews occurring at as well as potential other risks such as the Our approach least twice a year.
This review includes an introduction of trade tariffs and customs As with any business, we face risks and assessment of the movement in the risks, checks.
The company has a Brexit steering uncertainties.
The management of risk the strength of the controls relied upon and group in place to ensure that we are being is based on the balance between risk the status of the mitigation actions.
proactive in monitoring developments and reward, determined through careful and taking action where appropriate.
assessment of both the potential outcomes The viability statement on page 35 provides Given the continuing uncertainty regarding and impact as well as risk appetite.
a broader assessment of the long-term the outcome of the Brexit withdrawal We believe that effective risk management liquidity and solvency of the company process, the steering group has focused supports the successful delivery of our after consideration of the principal risks.
on a range of outcomes including no-deal strategic objectives.
We have an established and ensuring that adequate preparations risk management framework to identify, Key areas of focus are made where these are in the companys assess, mitigate and monitor the risks we Whilst our risk prole has continued to control.
The impact of Brexit including a face as a business.
The risk management evolve during the year, overall our principal no-deal outcome has not been presented framework incorporates both a top down risks have remained consistent.
We have as a separate risk but instead is reected in approach to identify the companys principal continued to enhance our reporting to the relevant principal risks, notably the risks risks and a bottom up approach to identify provide greater clarity on how our risk around Supply Chain and Treasury.
The Board is accountable prole is changing and how the risks are for the risk management process and each being managed.
We complete deep dives Risk appetite year the Executive team performs a robust on targeted risks: these are selected where The UK Corporate Governance Code requires assessment of the principal risks facing the there has been an increase in the risk score companies to determine their risk appetite.
company, which is reviewed by the Board.
or because it is an emerging risk area.
This is an expression of the amount and types Similarly, all business units and functions The objective of the deep dive is to assess of risk that the company is willing to take in are responsible for identifying and assessing the strength of the controls in place and the order to achieve its strategic and operational their risks and measuring them against the effectiveness of the actions we are taking.
We have agreed a set of company dened criteria, considering the likelihood appetite statements for our principal risks.
Last year we identied the UKs decision of occurrence and the potential impact to We use the articulation of risk appetite in to leave the European Union EU as having the company.
The Board, Executive team, decision making across the company, and to a potential impact on the company, as a business units and functions monitor and define and validate the mitigating activities consequence of the depreciation of sterling review their risk maps and information during required to manage our risks.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Board of Directors Assess principal risks and set risk appetite.
Overall responsibility for maintaining sound risk management and internal controls.
Identify Audit Committee Sets risk management framework.
Assesses the effectiveness of the Groups risk framework and internal control systems.
Executive team RISK Identies and monitors principal risks and Monitoring MANAGEMENT Evaluate undertakes reviews of operational risks and Reporting PROCESS reported from business units.
Risk and Internal Audit Tests internal controls and co-ordinates risk management activity, provides expertise and support to business risk owners and reports risk information across the organisation.
Response Operational management Owns and reviews operational risks, operate controls and implement mitigation actions.
