The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Our approach to risk management how we manage risk Like any business, we face a number of To meet our objectives, build value and promote our stakeholders risks and uncertainties.
Some come from interests, its essential we manage risk.
To help us, weve developed a group-wide risk management process with four stages: outside our organisation, others from within.
Some we cant control, some we Identification can.
Many of our risks are similar to those felt by similar businesses.
monitoring evaluation Business activities principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties that affect us could have an Response impact on our business, brand, assets, revenue, profits, liquidity or capital resources.
The principal risks we described last year have evolved, and so has our response to them.
changes over the year In 2016 17 we improved the way we manage risk through focussing Our Enterprise Risk Management framework gives reasonable but on risks to our investment cases, developing an enhanced approach to cannot give absolute assurance that weve identified and addressed root cause analysis, and identifying new ways to share good practice our biggest risks.
However, there may be some risks that are either across the organisation.
Specific further improvements this year currently unknown, or currently seen as less important but with the included: potential to become more so in the future.
Three lines of defence Events outside BT present both risks and opportunities.
We focus Weve revisited our three lines of defence model our approach to our efforts on predicting and reducing risks while aiming to take governing and assuring our business and how we apply it to our key advantage of any opportunities that may emerge.
This has helped us identify areas where we can optimise our assurance.
Were also developing training around the three lines of defence We recognise the uncertainty that political and geo-political risks to help our people better understand the model and how they support it.
present, and have continued to operate a specific Brexit programme across BT that looks at how we might be affected and what our response external benchmarking internal review should be.
This programme is keeping a close watch on developments, Weve been reviewing our risk management arrangements, using some and reports to a steering group chaired by our group CFO.
external benchmarking and discussions with key internal stakeholders.
This has helped highlight areas of strength and also areas where we In the section below, we explain what were doing to prevent our can develop further.
Well be addressing those findings next year.
main risks from materialising, or to limit their impact if theyre unavoidable.
Our biggest risks and uncertainties should be Real-time war gaming considered alongside the risk management process, the forwardWeve continued our cycle of war gaming during 2017 18, and this looking statements in this document and the associated cautionary year also tested a crisis scenario in real time.
This exercise involved statement see page 211. numerous colleagues from across the business and the learnings will help us become more resilient to future events.
enterprise risk framework customer-facing unit and TSo BT group plc Audit and audit and risk committees RiskCommittee customer-facing unit group Risk panel executive committee Board and TSo leadership teams The BT Group plc Risk Panel The BT Group plc Executive The BT Group plc Board has Our customer-facing units and supports the BT Group plc Board Committee identifies, evaluates, overall responsibility for TSO follow our process for and the BT Group plc Executive responds to and monitors risks.
making sure we manage risks managing risk as part of our Committee.
Every three months Significant risks are reported appropriately.
It regularly Enterprise Risk Management it reviews the BT Group plc Risk and monitored through the BT reviews, either directly or framework.
That means Register which summarises Group plc Risk Register.
The BT through the BT Group plc identifying and responding to those risks of greatest Group plc Executive Committee Audit & Risk Committee, how the key risks affecting their significance across our assigns a management owner to were doing across the group, business.
They record the risks business, considers the take charge of monitoring and in our customer-facing units for their leadership teams to inclusion of new or emerging managing each risk.
Audit & risk committees risks, and recommends ways to risks through regular detailed in each customer-facing unit, tackle them.
It also oversees the reviews as well as six-monthly TSO and our group functions, work of the group risk reviews of the BT Group plc make sure this process is management function.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 33
