The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion 25.
Financial instruments and risk management Risk management is performed by BT Group plc, the ultimate parent company of the group.
We issue or hold financial instruments mainly to finance our operations: to finance corporate transactions such as dividends, share buybacks and acquisitions: for the temporary investment of short-term funds: and to manage currency and interest rate risks.
In addition, various financial instruments, for example trade receivables and payables arise directly from operations.
How do we manage financial risk?
Our activities expose us to a variety of financial risks: market risk including interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Treasury operation We have a centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to manage liquidity and funding requirements as well as our exposure to associated financial and market risks, including credit risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
Treasury policy Treasury policy is set by the BT Group plc Board.
Group treasury activities are subject to a set of controls appropriate for the magnitude of borrowing, investments and group-wide exposures.
The BT Group plc Board has delegated authority to operate these policies to a series of panels responsible for the management of key treasury risks and operations.
Appointment to and removal from the key panels requires approval from two of the following: the chairman, the chief executive or the chief financial officer BT Group plc.
There has been no change in the nature of our risk profile between 31 March 2018 and the date of approval of these financial statements.
How do we manage interest rate risk?
Management policy Interest rate risk arises primarily from our long-term borrowings.
Interest cash flow risk arises from borrowings issued at variable rates, partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
Fair value interest rate risk arises from borrowings issued at fixed rates.
Our policy, as set by the BT Group plc Board, is to ensure that at least 70% of BT Group plcs ongoing net debt is at fixed rates.
Shortterm interest rate management is delegated to the treasury operation while long-term interest rate management decisions require further approval by the BT Group plc group chief financial officer, group director tax, treasury and insurance or the group treasurer who each have been delegated such authority from the BT Group plc Board.
Hedging strategy In order to manage our interest rate profile, we have entered into cross-currency and interest rate swap agreements to vary the amounts and periods for which interest rates on borrowings are fixed.
The duration of the swap agreements matches the duration of the debt instruments.
The majority of the groups long-term borrowings are subject to fixed Sterling interest rates after applying the impact of these hedging instruments.
How do we manage foreign exchange risk?
Management policy Foreign currency hedging activities protect the group from the risk that changes in exchange rates will adversely affect future net cash flows.
The BT Group plc Boards policy for foreign exchange risk management defines the types of transactions typically covered, including significant operational, funding and currency interest exposures, and the period over which cover should extend for each type of transaction.
The BT Group plc Board has delegated short-term foreign exchange management to the treasury operation and long-term foreign exchange management decisions require further approval from the BT Group plc group chief financial officer, group director tax, treasury and insurance or the group treasurer.
Hedging strategy A significant proportion of our external revenue and costs arise within the UK and are denominated in Sterling.
Our non-UK operations generally trade and are funded in their functional currency which limits their exposure to foreign exchange volatility.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 157 156 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018
