Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Principal risks and uncertainties Bunzl operates in six core market sectors across more than 30 countries which exposes it to many risks and uncertainties.
The Group sees the management of risk, both positive and negative, as critical to achieving its strategic objectives.
Risk management process To deliver the Groups strategic objectives successfully, and provide value for shareholders, customers and other stakeholders, it is critical that Bunzl maintains an effective process for the management of risk.
The Company has a risk management policy which ensures a consistent process is followed by every business and business area as well as the Executive Committee and ultimately the Board, firstly to assess and then subsequently to manage both current and emerging risks.
These interrelated aspects of the Groups risk management policy are explained below.
Additional detail is also provided on the key risk management activities undertaken during 2018.
Risk assessment Risk identification Inherent risk assessment Risk response and residual risk assessment Every business, business area, The inherent impact and probability of the Executive Committee and risks are evaluated before considering The relevant mitigating activities and controls are the Board identify and the effect of any mitigating activities: evaluated for each risk.
document risks in a consistent impact is assessed based on a The residual risk is assessed assuming that the way within the categories of defined range of business continuity, mitigating actions and internal controls operate as strategic, operational and health and safety, environmental, intended in an effective way.
regulatory, reputational and financial If necessary to bring the residual risk within Bunzls This includes current risks criteria: and risk appetite, enhancements to risk mitigation as well as emerging risks probability is assessed as remote, activities and controls are considered until the which also need to be unlikely, possible or probable.
residual risk is reduced to an acceptable level.
Risk management The Board Executive Committee Establishes the nature and extent of risk the Group is willing to accept Holds regular meetings with business area management to its risk appetite in pursuit of Bunzls strategic objectives.
discuss strategic, operational and financial issues and ensures policies and procedures are in place to identify and manage the Performs a robust assessment of the Groups risks through a biannual principal risks affecting each of the Groups businesses.
review of the Groups risk register, focusing on the evolving risk landscape, emerging risks and those risks considered to be significant Considers the evolving risk landscape including reviewing by management and the Executive Committee.
the results of the risk assessment process and assessing the sufficiency of risk mitigation activities for current risks as Continuously monitors and oversees the Groups risk management well as the threats and opportunities from emerging risks.
and internal controls processes and procedures.
The Audit Committee Business area and business management Reviews the process for the management of risk, including the risk The Groups decentralised management structure allows for assessment and risk response, and its effectiveness.
the establishment of clear ownership of risk identification and management at the business level within the framework of Directs and oversees internal audits activities and reviews the results Bunzls risk management policy.
of assurance over controls and risk mitigation activities.
Businesses, with the support of business area management, During 2017 the Audit Committee commissioned an external implement and monitor the effectiveness of controls, policies assessment of the effectiveness of Bunzls risk management process and procedures designed to manage risk.
and procedures and considered and approved enhancements to the risk management process.
The Risk management and internal control section of the Corporate governance report on pages 64 and 65 includes further information on the specific procedures designed to identify, manage and mitigate risks which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations and for monitoring the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 51 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties 2017 Annual Report.
However, risk 3, which The Board is also monitoring the developing The Group operates in six core market was entitled Product cost inflation in the prior situation with respect to trade tariffs in the sectors across more than 30 countries which year, was reconsidered and its description United States of America US.
During 2018 exposes it to many risks and uncertainties, broadened to include cost inflation more the impact of additional trade tariffs levied not all of which are necessarily within the generally.
Although not a new risk, the name on products imported into the US were Groups control.
The risks summarised change to Cost inflation reflects the fact that mitigated through price increases or by below represent the principal risks and to grow profit margins organically, increases identifying alternative sources of supply.
uncertainties faced by the Group, being in selling prices and or cost reduction Based on these mitigations, and the those which are material to the development, activity is required in order to mitigate assessment of the potential risks associated performance, position or future prospects of both product and operating cost inflation.
with Brexit explained above, the Group does the Group, and the steps taken to mitigate not consider that its principal risks and such risks.
However, these risks do not The Board is continuing to monitor the uncertainties have changed as a result of comprise all of the risks that the Group may potential risks associated with the UK leaving the Brexit or US trade tariff related risks.
face and accordingly this summary is not the European Union Brexit.
Although Bunzl intended to be exhaustive.
is a UK headquartered company, more than One area of emerging risk that Bunzl is 85% of the Groups revenue, profit and cash proactively addressing relates to the increase In addition, the Groups financial flow is generated outside the UK.
Bunzl is in legislation and changes in consumer performance is partially dependent on highly decentralised, with each business preferences discouraging the use of certain general global economic conditions, the in the Group operating as a standalone single-use plastic products.
The legislative deterioration of which could have an adverse company, largely focused on customers in the trend was most notably first seen in 2015 effect on the Groups business and results of country in which it is incorporated.
Within the with the introduction of the plastic bag levy operations.
Although this is not considered UK, less than 20% of the products purchased in the UK, but this has been followed more by the Board to be a specific principal risk in are direct imports from overseas, of which recently by further EU and UK regulations its own right, many of the risks referred to most are from countries outside of the announced in 2018 that target reductions below could themselves be impacted by the European Union EU.
Accordingly, Bunzls or prohibitions of certain plastic-based economic environment prevailing in the ability to service its customers needs, products.
This is likely to reduce demand Groups markets from time to time.
whether they are inside or outside the EU, is for single-use plastic products while, unlikely to be affected materially by Brexit.
at the same time, increasing demand for The risks are presented by category of risk sustainably sourced, recyclable or reusable Strategic, Operational and Financial and Notwithstanding this assessment, as the alternatives.
Bunzls scale and unique are not presented in order of probability definitive arrangements for Brexit have not position at the centre of the supply chain or impact.
The relevant component of the yet been finalised, the final outcome remains should give the Group an opportunity to Groups strategy that each risk impacts is unclear and it is too early to understand fully provide customers with these alternative also noted: the impact that Brexit will have on the products and, as a result, the changes in Groups operations.
The risks to Bunzl regulations and consumer preferences are arising from Brexit will most likely be limited not considered to be a principal risk.
Organic growth to the following: The directors confirm that they have carried Acquisition growth foreign exchange volatility on the Groups out a robust assessment of the principal risks translated results which, as noted in risk 8, Operating model improvements facing the Group, including those that would Currency translation, is not hedged.
threaten its business model, future Therefore, a strengthening or weakening During the year an analysis of the performance, solvency or liquidity.
of sterling will result in a change in the interconnectivity of the principal and Groups reported results: non-principal risks as identified through the Groups risk assessment process was the imposition of trade tariffs could result performed internally, leveraging the results in an increase in product costs in the UK.
of an external review that was performed This is reflected in risk 3, Cost inflation, during 2017.
This review looked at the and mitigated by the actions noted for that relationships, connections and risk: and interdependencies between risks, supply chain disruption as UK ports are recognising that risks do not always occur unable to cope with additional border in isolation, and contributed to the Groups checks leading to inventory shortages.
assessment of the adequacy of risk Selected UK warehouses are applying for management and mitigating activities.
simplified customs freight procedures authorisation CFSP to attempt to Overall, the nature and type of the principal minimise port delays.
Additional stocks risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, of certain items will be held to minimise and the likelihood and impact of each of the the risk of inventory shortages.
principal risks crystallising, are considered to be materially unchanged compared to the 52 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Principal risks facing the Description of risk and how it might Group affect the Groups prospects How the risk is managed or mitigated Strategic risks 1.
Competitive The Group operates in highly competitive The Groups geographic and market sector diversification allow it to pressures markets and faces price competition from withstand shifts in demand, while this global scale across many markets Revenue and profits international, national, regional and local also enables the Group to provide the broadest possible range of customer are reduced as the companies in the countries and markets in specific solutions to suit their exacting needs.
Group loses a which it operates.
The Group maintains high service levels and close contact with its customer or lowers Unforeseen changes in the competitive customers to ensure that their needs are being met satisfactorily.
prices due to landscape could also occur such as an existing This includes continuing to invest in e-commerce and digital platforms competitive competitor or new market entrant introducing to enhance further its service offering to customers.
pressures disruptive technologies or changes in routes The Group maintains strong relationships with a variety of different to market.
suppliers, thereby enabling the Group to offer a broad range of products to Customers, especially large or growing its customers, including own brand products, in a consolidated one-stopcustomers, could exert pressure on the Groups shop offering at competitive prices.
selling prices, thereby reducing its margins, switch to a competitor or ultimately choose to deal directly with suppliers.
Any of these competitive pressures could lead to a loss of market share and a reduction in the Groups revenue and profits.
Product cost A reduction in the cost of products bought by The Group uses its considerable experience in sourcing and selling deflation the Group, due to suppliers passing on lower products to manage prices during periods of deflation in order to minimise Revenue and profits commodity prices such as plastic or paper, the impact on profits.
are reduced due to lower trade tariffs and or foreign currency Focus on the Groups own brand products, together with the reinforcement the Groups need to fluctuations, coupled with actions of of the Groups service and product offering to customers, helps to minimise pass on cost price competitors, may require the Group to pass on the impact of price deflation.
reductions such cost reductions to customers, especially The Group continually looks at ways to improve productivity and those on indexed or cost-plus pricing implement other efficiency measures to manage and, where possible, arrangements, resulting in a reduction in the reduce its operating costs.
Operating profits may also be lower due to the above factors if operating costs are not reduced commensurate with the reduction in revenue.
Cost inflation Significant or unexpected cost increases by The Group sources its products from a number of different suppliers Profits are reduced suppliers, due to the pass through of higher based in different countries so that it is not dependent on any one source from the Groups commodity prices such as plastic or paper, of supply for any particular product, or overly exposed to a particular inability to pass on higher trade tariffs and or foreign currency country changing trade tariffs, and can purchase products at the most product or operating fluctuations, could adversely impact profits if the competitive prices.
cost increases Group is unable to pass on such product cost The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the functional increases to customers.
currencies of the Groups operations, but for foreign currency transactions Operating profits may also be lower due to some forward purchasing of foreign currencies is used to reduce the impact the above factors if selling prices are not of short term currency volatility.
increased commensurate with the increases If necessary, the Group will, where possible, pass on price increases from in operating costs.
its suppliers to its customers.
The Group continually looks at ways to improve productivity and implement other efficiency measures to manage and, where possible, reduce its operating costs.
Inability to make Acquisitions are a key component of the Groups The Group maintains a large acquisition pipeline which continues to grow further acquisitions growth strategy and one of the key sources of with targets identified by managers of current Bunzl businesses, research Profit growth is the Groups competitive advantage, having undertaken by the Groups dedicated and experienced in-house corporate reduced from the made more than 150 acquisitions since 2004. development team and information received from banking and corporate Groups inability to finance contacts.
Insufficient acquisition opportunities, through acquire new a lack of availability of suitable companies to The Group has a strong track record of successfully making acquisitions.
companies acquire or an unwillingness of business owners At the same time the Group maintains a decentralised management to sell their companies to Bunzl, could adversely structure which facilitates a strong entrepreneurial culture and encourages impact future profit growth.
former owners to remain within the Group after acquisition, which in turn encourages other companies to consider selling to Bunzl.
Organic growth Acquisition growth Operating model improvements Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 53 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks facing the Description of risk and how it might Group affect the Groups prospects How the risk is managed or mitigated 5.
Unsuccessful Inadequate pre-acquisition due diligence related The Group has established processes and procedures for detailed acquisition to a target company and its market, or an pre-acquisition due diligence related to acquisition targets and the Profits are reduced, economic decline shortly after an acquisition, post-acquisition integration thereof.
including by an could lead to the Group paying more for a The Groups acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses which impairment charge, company than its fair value.
operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive advantage and due to an unsuccessful Furthermore, the loss of key people or which have good growth opportunities.
acquisition or customers, exaggerated by inadequate The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of its acquisitions acquisition integration post-acquisition integration of the business, through the recruitment and retention of high quality and appropriately could in turn result in underperformance of the incentivised management combined with effective strategic planning, acquired company compared to pre-acquisition investment in resources and infrastructure and regular reviews of expectations which could lead to lower profits as performance by both business area and Group management.
well as a need to record an impairment charge against any associated intangible assets.
Cyber security The frequency, sophistication and impact of Concurrent with the Groups IT investments, the Group is continuing to failure cyber-attacks on businesses are rising at the improve information security policies and controls to improve its ability Revenue and profits same time as Bunzl is increasing its to monitor, prevent, detect and respond to cyber threats.
are reduced as the connectivity with third parties and its digital Cyber security awareness campaigns have been deployed across all Group is unable to footprint through acquisition and investment regions to enhance the knowledge of Bunzl personnel and their resilience operate and serve its in ecommerce platforms and efficiency to phishing attacks.
customers needs due enhancing IT systems.
IT disaster recovery and incident management plans, which would be to being impacted by Weak cyber defences, both now and in the implemented in the event of any such failure, are in place and periodically a cyber-attack future, through a failure to keep up with tested.
The Group CIO and Group Head of Information Security coordinate increasing cyber risks and insufficient IT activity in this area.
disaster recovery planning and testing, could increase the likelihood and severity of a cyber-attack leading to business disruption, reputational damage and loss of customers.
Availability of Insufficient liquidity in financial markets could The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources and funding lead to banks and institutions being unwilling to continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure that it will Insufficient liquidity lend to the Group, resulting in the Group being be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and that sufficient in financial markets unable to obtain necessary funds when required facilities are in place to meet the Groups requirements in the short, medium leading to insolvency to repay maturing borrowings, thereby reducing and long term.
the cash available to meet its trading obligations, make acquisitions and pay dividends.
Currency The majority of the Groups revenue and profits The Group does not hedge the impact of exchange rate movements translation are earned in currencies other than sterling, the arising on translation of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.
Significant change in Groups presentation currency.
The Board believes that the benefits of its geographical spread outweigh foreign exchange the risks.
As a result, a significant strengthening of rates leading to a sterling against the US dollar and the euro in Results are reported at constant exchange rates so that investors can reduction in reported particular could have a material translation observe the underlying performance of the Group excluding the translation results and or a impact on the Groups reported results and or impact on the Groups reported results.
breach of banking lead to a breach of net debt to EBITDA The Groups borrowings are denominated in US dollars, sterling and covenants banking covenants.
euros in similar proportions to the relative profit contribution of each of these currencies to the Groups EBITDA.
This minimises the risk that movements in foreign exchange rates will have a material impact on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, and therefore minimises the risk of a breach of banking covenants caused by foreign currency fluctuations.
Organic growth Acquisition growth Operating model improvements 54 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Principal risks facing the Description of risk and how it might Group affect the Groups prospects How the risk is managed or mitigated 9.
Increase in The resolution of uncertain prior year tax Oversight of the Groups tax strategy is within the remit of the Board taxation matters or the introduction of legislative changes and tax risks are assessed by the Audit Committee.
Increases in Group could cause a higher tax expense and higher The Group seeks to plan and manage its tax affairs efficiently but also tax rate and or cash tax payments, thereby adversely affecting responsibly with a view to ensuring that it complies fully with the relevant cash tax the Groups profits and cash flows.
legal obligations in the countries in which the Group operates while In particular, changes could result from the legal endeavouring to manage its tax affairs to protect value for the Companys arguments between the European Commission shareholders in line with the Boards broader fiduciary duties.
and the UK government over whether part of the The Group manages and controls these risks through an internal tax UKs tax regime is contrary to European Union department made up of experienced tax professionals who exercise State Aid provisions.
judgement and seek appropriate advice from specialist professional firms.
At the same time the Group monitors international developments in tax law and practice, adapting its approach where necessary to do so.
Assessment of the prospects of the have no reason to believe the Company will a reverse stress test scenario which Company and its viability statement not be viable over a longer period, given the identified what would need to happen to In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the inherent uncertainty involved, the period cause the Company to fail, which for this Corporate Governance Code, the directors over which the directors consider it possible purpose is taken to mean an unavoidable set out below how they have assessed the to form a reasonable expectation as to the breach of financial covenants.
prospects of the Company, over what period Groups longer term viability is the three year the prospects have been assessed and the period to 31 December 2021.
In all scenarios it has been assumed, based Companys formal viability statement.
on past experience and all current indicators, How the prospects of the Company and its that the Company will be able to refinance its The context for and period over which longer term viability have been assessed banking facilities and US private placement the prospects of the Company have In making a viability statement, the directors notes as and when they mature.
In the first been assessed are required to consider the Companys two stress tests it was found that the Group To consider the prospects of the Company ability to meet its liabilities as they fall due, was resilient and in particular it remained and determine an appropriate time frame taking into account the Companys current in compliance with the relevant financial for the purpose of making a statement position and principal risks.
The conditions required to create on the Companys longer term viability, has significant financial resources including the reverse stress test scenario, the third the directors have taken into account committed and uncommitted banking stress test, were so severe that they were various factors including the nature of the facilities, US private placement notes and considered to be implausible.
Companys business, its business model and a senior unsecured bond, further details strategy and the existing planning periods.
of which are set out in Note 14 to the The directors consider that the stress testing In particular: consolidated financial statements.
As a based assessment of the Companys result, the directors believe that the prospects, building on the results of the Bunzl has a geographically balanced and Company is well placed to manage its robust assessment of the principal risks to diversified business portfolio operating in business risks successfully.
the business and the financial implications of more than 30 countries: them materialising, confirms the resilience of the Company operates across six core, The resilience of the Group to a range of the Group to severe but plausible scenarios fragmented market sectors, many of which possible scenarios, in particular the impact and provides a reasonable basis on which are growing and resilient to challenging on key financial ratios and its ongoing to conclude on its longer term viability.
economic conditions: and compliance with financial covenants, was factored into the directors considerations Confirmation of longer term viability the business model and strategy minimise through stress testing current financial In accordance with the provisions of the the volatility of the Companys results, projections.
These stress tests included Corporate Governance Code, the directors enabling Bunzl to deliver consistently good the following: have taken account of the Groups current results with high returns on capital and position and principal risks and cash conversion.
the impact of the crystallisation of the uncertainties referred to above in assessing principal strategic risks to the Groups the prospects of the Company and they have With regard to the time frame specifically, the organic growth and a significant increase a reasonable expectation that the Company directors considered the above factors as well in working capital: will be able to continue in operation and as the Groups strategic planning process.
the impact of the crystallisation of the meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Comprehensive budgets are prepared principal strategic and operational risks to three year period to 31 December 2021. annually by the business areas and approved the Groups organic and acquisition growth by the Board.
Strategic plans covering a and significant increases in both working period of two years beyond the forecast for the capital and the effective tax rate, both current year are also prepared annually and with and without mitigating actions: and reviewed by the Board.
While the directors Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 55
