Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk management Caledonia risk governance and structure Effective risk management is a Risk management and its governance is the responsibility key component of the companys of the board, with the executive given the task of ensuring an effective and transparent process to ensure risks are investment model and assists in identified, documented, assessed and, where appropriate, ensuring that the different parts of mitigated.
The board sets the risk appetite within the the group operate within strategic business model and this is communicated through the executive to all those with managerial responsibilities.
The board has Risks emanate from all parts of the business and are overall responsibility for setting considered by all executives as part of their work, from origination of investments to ongoing monitoring and and monitoring the companys portfolio management.
The Audit Committee assesses and monitors the risk management processes and structure and specifically reviews the controls assurance programme.
This programme identifies key mitigating controls, tests their operation and reports on compliance and effective operation.
This, together with the audit findings report received from the external auditor and best practice guidance from other advisers, provides input to the board as a whole on the status of the risk management process.
Risk management reporting Caledonia manages and reports risk through two primary areas of focus an overall business risk report and a portfolio investment risk report.
The business risk report considers the wider business Board of directors environment of the group, including business continuity Risk management leadership planning, IT and cyber security risks, regulatory risks and financial control risks.
Caledonia manages business risk Audit Committee through a number of integrated processes and procedures Review and monitor the risk operating throughout the year to provide risk visibility to management process both the executive team and the wider board.
Finance Director Risk reporting and Best practice guidance controls assurance programme Investment executives Risk management as a key element of the investment process Investee managements Risk identication and mitigation Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 27 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk management continued Risk level Caledonia risk management process Principal risks Mitigation Key developments change Business and operational risks are formally identified and The companys business model and strategy are reviewed Caledonia reviews its investment strategy annually, Strategic assessed through a risk dashboard, capturing the most periodically, against market conditions and target returns.
taking into consideration the current and potential Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business significant business risks facing Caledonia and future investing environment and discussions with model to deliver long term growth in capital and income The performance of the company and its key risks are documenting the actions required to achieve an executives.
The investment strategy is reviewed through the system of separately managed pools.
monitored regularly by management and the board.
The business risk dashboard and approved by the board.
Strategic risks include the allocation of capital in relation to considers strategic risks, operational risks, market risks, geography, sector, currency, yield and liquidity.
liquidity risks and regulatory risks and is reported to the Investment Investment opportunities are subject to rigorous appraisal Pool managers have continued to develop their board half yearly.
Risks in respect of specific investment and realisation and a multi-stage approval process.
Pool managers have own risk management processes during the year.
well-developed networks through which they attract The board regularly reviews investment risk at Investment risks are identified in an investment risk proprietary deal flow.
Target entry and exit events and both pool and company portfolio level.
report, specifically focusing on the more technical areas of Investment risks include the appropriate research and due prices are monitored and updated regularly, in relation to diligence of new investments and the timely execution of investment portfolio risk in relation to Caledonias market conditions and strategic aims.
both investments and realisations for optimising investment strategy.
This includes such risks as shareholder value.
investment volatility, value at risk, diversification, Market risks and sensitivities are reviewed weekly and Caledonia has continued to operate a diversified liquidity and concentration.
Market actions taken, where appropriate, to balance risk and geographical portfolio that provides a longer term Risk of losses in value of investments arising from sudden return.
hedge to geographical market risk and and significant movements in market prices, particularly in foreign exchange.
A regular review of market and portfolio volatility is Set risk Caledonias principal market risks are therefore equity price conducted by the board.
Reviews also consider investment Caledonia has a well-developed and wide appetite volatility, foreign exchange rate movements and interest concentration, currency exposure and portfolio liquidity.
ranging contact base, which, together with rate volatility.
An explanation of these risks is included in formal advisers, ensures that it understands the note 22. landscape arising from the impending market Report and Identify and changes and how this might impact its business.
feedback document Detailed cash forecasting for six months ahead is updated We have continued to manage our investment Liquidity and reviewed weekly, including the expected drawdown process to ensure access to our available facilities Risk that liabilities cannot be met or new investments made of capital commitments.
is on a short term basis only.
At 31 March 2018, we due to a lack of liquidity.
Such risk can arise from not being had net cash of 208m, together with undrawn, able to sell an investment due to lack of a market or from Loan facilities are maintained to provide appropriate committed borrowing facilities of 250m.
not holding cash or being able to raise debt.
The liquidity of the portfolio is reviewed regularly.
Monitor Score impact and improve and likelihood Operational Systems and control procedures are developed and During the year, we completed the refurbishment Risks arising from inadequate or failed processes, people reviewed regularly.
They are tested to ensure effective of our office property in Buckingham Gate and and systems or from external factors.
reoccupied the building after a two year absence.
Set target The process of moving operations between Operational risks arise from the recruitment, development Appropriate remuneration and other policies are in place and mitigate temporary and permanent premises over the and retention of staff, systems and procedures and to encourage the retention of key staff.
Business continuity period provided a robust test of our business business disruption.
plans are maintained and updated as the business evolves.
Regulatory and legal Caledonia has internal resources to consider regulatory Caledonia produced the required Key Information Risk arising from exposure to litigation or fraud or failure to and tax matters as they arise.
Use is made of advisers Document, in compliance with the EU PRIIPs adhere to the tax and regulatory environment.
Caledonia where necessary to supplement internal knowledge in Regulation.
This is available on the companys operates across a number of jurisdictions and in an specialised areas.
Caledonia is a member of the website.
industry that has been subject to increasing regulatory Association of Investment Companies and is represented oversight.
on its self-managed investment trust committee.
Continued monitoring of directly held unquoted Our review of the continuing business models of Brexit investment performance and business model exposure to our directly held unquoted investments have not Risk arising from changing consumer spending trends and potential Brexit impacts.
revealed significant exposures to European impact of trade regulation and tariffs.
regulatory or trading environments that might be Continued monitoring of quoted market responses to Potential volatility to quoted markets due to uncertainty as impacted by Brexit.
to Brexit outcome and impacts.
We continue to monitor potential impacts to quoted markets as Brexit concludes.
28 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk level Principal risks Mitigation Key developments change The companys business model and strategy are reviewed Caledonia reviews its investment strategy annually, Strategic periodically, against market conditions and target returns.
taking into consideration the current and potential Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business future investing environment and discussions with model to deliver long term growth in capital and income The performance of the company and its key risks are executives.
and approved by the board.
Strategic risks include the allocation of capital in relation to geography, sector, currency, yield and liquidity.
Investment Investment opportunities are subject to rigorous appraisal Pool managers have continued to develop their Risks in respect of specific investment and realisation and a multi-stage approval process.
well-developed networks through which they attract The board regularly reviews investment risk at proprietary deal flow.
Investment risks include the appropriate research and due prices are monitored and updated regularly, in relation to diligence of new investments and the timely execution of market conditions and strategic aims.
both investments and realisations for optimising shareholder value.
Market risks and sensitivities are reviewed weekly and Caledonia has continued to operate a diversified Market actions taken, where appropriate, to balance risk and geographical portfolio that provides a longer term Risk of losses in value of investments arising from sudden return.
A regular review of market and portfolio volatility is Caledonias principal market risks are therefore equity price conducted by the board.
Reviews also consider investment Caledonia has a well-developed and wide volatility, foreign exchange rate movements and interest concentration, currency exposure and portfolio liquidity.
An explanation of these risks is included in formal advisers, ensures that it understands the note 22. landscape arising from the impending market changes and how this might impact its business.
Detailed cash forecasting for six months ahead is updated We have continued to manage our investment Liquidity and reviewed weekly, including the expected drawdown process to ensure access to our available facilities Risk that liabilities cannot be met or new investments made of capital commitments.
Operational Systems and control procedures are developed and During the year, we completed the refurbishment Risks arising from inadequate or failed processes, people reviewed regularly.
The process of moving operations between Operational risks arise from the recruitment, development Appropriate remuneration and other policies are in place temporary and permanent premises over the and retention of staff, systems and procedures and to encourage the retention of key staff.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 29
