32 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk Managing business risks management framework.
As outlined below, rests with the Board.
Principal risks, as well as Managing risks and opportunities is this integrated approach to the management progress against key projects, are reviewed at essential to Cairns long term success and of risk and opportunity plays a key role in the each Board meeting and at least once a year sustainability.
All investment opportunities successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
the Board undertakes a risk workshop to expose the Group to political, commercial review the Groups principal risks.
and technical risk and the Group maintains Cairns system for identifying and managing exposure to these risks at an acceptable risks is embedded from the top down in its The Groups framework for risk management level in accordance with the Groups appetite organisational structure, operations and promotes a bottom-up approach to risk for risk.
management systems and accords with the management with top-down support and risk management guidelines and principles challenge.
The risks associated with the The Groups risk management framework set out in ISO 31000, the International delivery of the strategy and work provides a systematic process for the Standard for Risk Management.
The Groups programmes and the associated mitigation identification and management of the key risk management structure is set out in the measures and action plans are maintained risks and opportunities which may impact the structure below.
in a series of risk registers at Group, asset, delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
Reporting of these KPIs are set annually and determining the Risk governance risks within the organisation is structured level of risk the Group is willing to accept in Overall responsibility for the system of risk so that risks are escalated through various the pursuit of these objectives is a management and internal control and internal management, Board committees fundamental component of the Groups risk reviewing the effectiveness of such systems and to the Board itself.
Groups risk Risk governance framework management framework Top-down: Oversight, accountability, monitoring and assurance Outline the strategy Set a sustainable strategy to achieve Cairns short and long term goals.
The Board Holds overall Sets strategic Sets the tone Completes robust responsibility for objectives and and influences the assessment of the Groups risk defines risk appetite culture of risk principal risks Define strategic objectives management and management Set clear strategic objectives in the internal control form of KPIs.
systems Define risk appetite Risk Management Audit Management Determine the level of risk the Group is willing to accept Committee RMC Committee Team in the pursuit of the strategic objectives and document Executive Committee Chaired by Chaired by COO in 2018 this in the Group Risk Appetite Statement.
chaired by CFO in 2018 Non-Executive Director in 2018 Performs a quarterly deep-dive Responsibility for setting the Monitors and reviews the scope review of the Group risk register direction for risk management and effectiveness of the Companys systems Facilitates continual improvement of risk and internal control of the risk management system Identify key risks Reviews principal risks and output from the RMC meetings Identify key risks and opportunities to the achievement of strategic objectives through discussions at a Board, Risk Management Committee, Management Team, Regional and functional level.
Asset Project Function level Apply risk assessment process Apply the Group risk assessment process to ensure the Risk identification, Risk management system Risk culture influencing ongoing management of key risks to our objectives.
assessment and embedded and all business activities mitigation completed integrated throughout at asset, project the Group and functional level Deliver strategic objectives Delivery of strategic objectives through informed risk-based decision making.
Bottom-up: identification of risks and mitigating actions for assets, projects and functions Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Strategic Report Responding to the changing risk identified on the Group risk register each Group has been working through the environment in 2018 quarter to ensure ownership for the risks, year to implement the identified As part of our goal to seek continual mitigations and actions were clearly improvements: and improvement of the risk management assigned and implementation dates Training was delivered to employees on process, the following tasks were completed for actions were tracked: anti-bribery and corruption, cyber in 2018: A gross to net risk assessment was security, GDPR and the Corporate The Board completed a risk workshop completed on the principal risks.
This Offence of Failure to Prevent the which focused on assessing above assessment helped identify high impact Facilitation of Tax Evasion.
ground risks across the portfolio.
The risks and the areas where there is objective of the workshop was to evaluate a heavy reliance on the controls and the risk profile of the current portfolio in mitigating actions: relation to above ground risk and consider EY, the Groups internal auditor, delivered how it may evolve over time.
The outputs the annual internal audit plan which were then compared with the risk consisted of a number of risk areas parameters outlined in the Group Risk identified from the risk register.
Topics Appetite Statement to ensure they were covered in 2018 included the General still appropriate: Data Protection Regulation GDPR, The Management Team conducted a hydrocarbon sales, Mexico new country review of the risks, mitigations and actions setup and key financial controls.
The Viability Statement Strategy, business model and context anticipated future work programme and The base plan incorporates assumptions The Groups strategy and business model a set of financial forecasts that consider that reflect these Principal risks as follows: are described on page 4 of this report.
the sources of funding available to the projected operating cashflows are Group against the capital requirements of calculated using a range of production During 2018, with both the Kraken and the anticipated future work programme profiles and assume oil and gas prices Catcher fields on production throughout the base plan.
in line with the current forward curve: the year, the Group generated significant material budget contingencies and operating cashflows.
In Senegal, the Key assumptions which underpin the allowances are included in cost Group continues to focus on developing annual business planning process include estimates for exploration drilling and its significant discovered resource base, forecast oil and gas prices, forecast cost development projects: and an Exploitation Plan was submitted levels for oil and gas services and capital whilst resolution of the arbitration to the Government of Senegal which, projects, production profiles, operating claim against the Government of India when approved, will secure the costs of the producing assets and the remains a strategic priority, the commercialisation of that resource base availability of debt under the Groups funding plan does not assume receipt under long term licence.
of any award in Cairns favour: investment decision on phase 1 of this lack of exploration or appraisal development is planned in 2019 with first The Board recognises that a significant success would impede the delivery of production targeted in 2022.
In Norway, part of the anticipated work programme Cairns strategy but is not expected to the Nova development was sanctioned is dependent on the results of future affect the Groups ability to fund its during the year and first production is exploration or appraisal activity and that it committed work programme.
anticipated in 2021. is the Groups strategy to actively manage its licence portfolio to optimise its The Board also considers further Over the near to medium term, operating planned capital allocation.
Consequently, scenarios around the base plan.
These cash flows from the Kraken and Catcher reflecting this inherent variability in the primarily reflect a more severe impact of fields, together with borrowing facilities to longer term work programme, the Board the principal risks, both individually and support the development projects in has determined that three years is the in aggregate, as well as the additional Senegal and Norway, will form the appropriate period over which to assess capital requirements that would result primary source of funding for the Group.
from future exploration or appraisal The Group will continue to deploy these success or the acquisition of new assets.
funds on both development opportunities Viability and across the Groups wider exploration The Principal risks and uncertainties that The directors consider the impact that and appraisal portfolio.
affect the Boards assessment of the these principal risks could, in certain Groups viability in this period are: circumstances, have on the companys Assessment process and operational performance of the UK prospects within the assessment period, key assumptions North Sea producing assets: and accordingly assess the opportunities The Groups financial outlook is assessed the effect of volatile oil prices to actively manage its licence portfolio primarily through its annual business on the business and our partners and planned capital allocation as well as planning process.
This process includes financial position: to bring in additional sources of funding a Board strategy session, led by the the availability of debt to fund future at key milestones in asset development.
Senior Leadership Team, at which the development projects: performance of and outlook for the the outcome and timing of a final Based on the actions available to them, business are assessed and capital resolution to the Groups arbitration the directors have a reasonable allocation decisions are made.
The claim against the Government of expectation that the Group will be able outputs from the business planning India: and to continue in operation and meet its process include a set of Key Performance the results of any exploration or liabilities as they fall due over the three Objectives, the Group risk matrix, the appraisal activities.
year period of their assessment.
34 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2018-2019 Principal risks and uncertainties of 2018, the potential impacts, the mitigation biodiversity and cyber security were During 2018, through a number of internal measures, the risk appetite and the KPIs or identified as the top emerging risks which forums such as the Board, the Group Risk strategic objectives the risks may impact.
will be actively assessed and monitored Management Committee and Management further information can be found in the Team, the Group reviewed the risks which Cairns principal risks are considered, in line Working Responsibly section on page 40. could adversely affect the achievement with the Group Viability Statement, over a of strategic objectives.
In addition to this three year assessment, Cairn actively considers The tables below provide a summary overview emerging risks and threats as part of its risk of the principal risks to the Group at the end assessment process.
Climate change, 46 Read more: Working Responsibly on P46 Strategic objective: Deliver exploration success Principal risk: Lack of exploration success Owner: Director of Exploration Risk appetite High Exposure to exploration and appraisal failure is inherent in accessing the significant upside potential of exploration projects and this has been, and remains, a core value driver for Cairn.
The Group invests in data and exploits the strong experience of Cairns technical teams to mitigate this risk.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Limited or no Active programme for high-grading No change.
Successfully drill and evaluate value creation new areas through licence rounds, a programme of six exploration This risk remained static in 2018. farm-ins and other transactions.
Failure of the In 2018, Cairn participated in four balanced portfolio Portfolio of prospects and leads that Discover potentially commercial exploration wells in the UK & business model offer opportunities with a balance of hydrocarbons in line with preNorway region: PL682 targeting geological and technical risks.
Negative market the Tethys prospect in Q1, PL790 reaction Highly competent team applying a containing the Raudsen prospect Mature up to six new thorough review process to prospects in Q2, P2184 targeting the independent exploration and development opportunities, Ekland prospect in Q4 and P1763 prospects with JV support for and a team of geoscientists with containing the Agar discovery drilling in the period 2020-2021. a track record of delivering and Plantain prospect also in Q4.
Agar is estimated by the operator Establishment of Exploration to hold recoverable resources of Leadership Team to undertake 15-50mmboe.
Further evaluation peer reviews and assurance.
of the development options and broader exploration potential is ongoing.
Strategic objective: Mature developments Principal risk: Delay in Senegal development plan approval Owner: General Manager, Senegal Risk appetite Medium Developments are commonly subject to cost impacts and schedule delays.
The Group therefore has a medium appetite for risk taking in the development stage.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Loss of asset value Ongoing engagement with No change.
Mature the SNE field Senegal Government.
development project in Senegal Project delays This risk remained static in 2018. to Final Investment Decision.
Ongoing engagement with JV partners Negative market Development and Exploitation and other stakeholders.
reaction Plan for the SNE field offshore Development of joint venture Senegal was submitted in Increase in capital funding plan.
October, on schedule, to the expenditure Government of Senegal by Integrated transfer of operatorship plan the joint venture JV.
The JV agreed with Woodside.
is targeting a final investment decision in mid-2019 and first oil in 2022.
The Government of Senegal approved Woodside Energy Senegal B. V. as operator of the SNE field development.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Strategic Report Strategic objective: Portfolio management Principal risk: Securing new venture opportunities Owner: Director of Exploration Risk appetite Medium Building and maintaining a balanced portfolio of current and future exploration, development and production assets is core to the Groups strategy.
New opportunities must first meet the Groups strict investment criteria and successfully securing them will be dependent on the prevailing competitive environment.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Failure to replenish Geoscience, new ventures and Decreased.
Secure two new venture the portfolio commercial teams work closely opportunities that meet This risk decreased in 2018 to review and identify new corporate hurdles and have risk Inability to replace due to the Groups success portfolio opportunities.
levels consistent with our Risk reserves and sustain in securing new venture Appetite Statement.
Measured production levels Experience and knowledge throughout opportunities.
against tests of control, the organisation in recognising materiality and commercial Loss of investor An additional operated licence prospective opportunities.
confidence was secured in the Mexico Risk assessments and due diligence offshore bid round in H1 2018 to process undertaken on all potential add to the two existing licences.
The operated licence 50% WI with Citla as partner is on Development of discretionary Block 15. capital allocation and opportunity ranking system.
In Suriname, a frontier area with multiple wells currently drilling in the region, Cairn was awarded an operated exploration agreement Cairn 100% WI by Staatsolie on the largest offshore block.
In Cte dIvoire, Cairn has entered into the continental rift play with Tullow Oil.
Cairn has agreed a farm-in for a 30% interest in all seven of Tullows onshore licences.
In Mauritania, Cairn has an option agreement with Total to enter Block C7, a large offshore exploration block in a proven oil province.
Cairn farmed into the P1763 licence in the UK North Sea with Azinor Catalyst in H1 2018 with the option of taking over as Operator.
Cairn joins Azinor Catalyst for 50% of the sole risk drilling activity on the Agar discovery and Plantain prospect and 25% of the wider licence with existing partners.
Cairn participated in five th applications in the UK 30 Licence Round and in H1 was offered all five licences three as operator and two as nonoperator, incorporating most of the prospectivity we had identified prior to bidding.
36 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2018-2019 Strategic objective: Maintain licence to operate Principal risk: Health, safety, environment and security Owner: Chief Executive Risk appetite Low The Group continuously strives to reduce risks that could lead to an HSSE incident to as low as reasonably practicable.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Serious injury Effectively managing health, safety, No change.
Demonstrate clear progress and or death security and environmental risk achieve defined milestones in This risk remained static in exposure is the first priority for the relation to HSSE CR objectives, Environmental 2018 due to continued strong Board, Senior Leadership Team and split into four key categories impacts HSSE performance.
Governance, Society, People and the Environment.
Reputational The Groups safety performance HSE training is included as part of all damage has been effective overall in staff and contractor inductions.
Achieve lagging HSSE indicators 2018, achieving zero lost time set in line with IOGP targets.
Regulatory penalties Detailed training on the Groups injuries, recordable injuries or and clean-up costs Corporate Responsibility Management spills across all Cairn operations.
System CRMS has been provided to With ongoing operations in key stakeholders to ensure processes a number of countries in 2019, and procedures are embedded the Group will continue to throughout the organisation and work responsibly as part of all operations.
our strategy to deliver value Process in place for assessing an for all stakeholders.
operators overall operating and HSE capabilities, including undertaking audits to determine the level of oversight required.
Effective application of CRMS in projects.
Crisis and emergency response procedures and equipment are maintained and regularly tested to ensure the Group is able to respond to an emergency quickly, safely and effectively.
Third party specialists in place to assist with security arrangements and travel risk assessments.
Leading and lagging indicators and targets developed in line with industry guidelines and benchmarks.
Findings from Lessons learned reviews are implemented from other projects.
Principal risk: Fraud, bribery and corruption Owner: Chief Executive Risk appetite Low Cairn is committed to maintaining integrity and high ethical standards in all of the Groups business dealings.
The Group has no tolerance for conduct which may compromise its reputation for integrity.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Fines Business Code of Ethics and bribery No change.
Demonstrate clear progress and and corruption policies and procedures.
achieve defined milestones in Criminal prosecution This risk remained static in 2018 relation to HSSE CR objectives, Due diligence process and due to no reportable instances split into four key categories Reputational questionnaire developed for assessing of fraud, bribery or corruption.
Governance, People, Society damage potential third parties.
The Group was awarded Annual training programme for all licences in new countries Achieve lagging HSSE indicators employees, contractors and selected deemed high risk for bribery set in line with IOGP targets.
A compliance programme will be implemented Financial procedures in place to for each area of operation.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Strategic Report Strategic objective: Deliver operational excellence Principal risk: Kraken and Catcher operational and project performance Owner: Chief Operating Officer Risk appetite Low Delivering operational excellence in all the Groups activities is a strategic objective for the Group and the Group works closely with all JV partners to mitigate the risk and impact of any operational delay or underperformance.
Therefore, the Group has a low appetite for risks which may impact on operating cash flow.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Delay or reduction in Work closely with the operators Increased risk.
Ensure production and operating cash flow to deliver risk mitigation plans cash flow from Kraken and This risk increased in 2018 due and project solutions during Catcher are at or within guidance Increased to operational challenges on ongoing commissioning.
on net production volume and operational costs the Kraken FPSO.
Positive and regular engagement HSE incident Average gross production from with operators and partners to Kraken in 2018 was 30,300 share knowledge, offer support Reputational boepd, which was below and exert influence.
Production levels were affected by both weatherrelated incidents, higher watercut than originally expected and most significantly, by production system outages on the FPSO.
Reservoir performance has been evaluated and at year end, Kraken 2P reserves have been reduced to reflect current performance.
This has resulted in an impairment in the carrying value of the Kraken asset.
The JV is evaluating further investment opportunities in the Kraken area to provide new drilling opportunities, also in 2020.
Gross production from the Catcher Area averaged 43,000 boepd in 2018.
This reflected the fields ramp-up to plateau production rates in May and significantly increased plant availability during the second half of the year as final commissioning of secondary systems was completed.
As a result, Catcher Area production averaged 69,400 boepd gross in November and December, achieving 97 per cent operating efficiency.
38 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2018-2019 Strategic objective: Deliver operational excellence continued Principal risk: Reliance on JV operators for asset performance Owner: Chief Operating Officer Risk appetite Medium The Group seeks to operate assets which align with the Groups core areas of expertise, but recognises that a balanced portfolio will also include non-operated ventures.
The Group accepts that there are risks associated with a non-operator role and will seek to mitigate these risks by working with partners of high integrity and experience and maintaining close working relationships with all JV partners.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Cost schedule Actively engage with all JV partners No change.
Mature the SNE field overruns early to establish good working development project in Senegal This risk remained static in 2018. relationships.
Poor performance Oil price volatility continues to of assets Actively participate in technical Progress the Nova development have a financial impact across the meetings to challenge, apply influence project against key predefined HSE performance industry and the risk remains that and or support partners to establish a project milestones.
the Groups JV partners may not cohesive JV view.
Delay in first oil be able to fund work programme Ensure production and operating from development Application of the Group risk expenditures and or reprioritise cash flow from Kraken and projects management processes and nonprojects.
Catcher are at or within guidance operated ventures procedure.
on net production volume and Negative impact on Catcher, Kraken and several lifting cost per barrel.
asset value Active engagement with supply chain exploration projects are operated providers to monitor performance and by joint venture partners.
Demonstrate clear progress and delivery.
Woodside has also taken over achieve defined milestones in operatorship of the Senegal asset.
relation to HSSE CR objectives, The Group continues to work split into four key categories closely with a number of other Governance, Society, People partners in the UK and Norway and the Environment.
Achieve lagging HSSE indicators set in line with IOGP targets.
Strategic objective: Deliver a sustainable business Principal risk: Access to debt markets Owner: Chief Financial Officer Risk appetite Low The Group seeks to develop and implement a funding strategy that allows a value generative plan to be executed and ensures a minimum headroom cushion from existing sources of funding is maintained.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Work programme Committed work programme is fully Increased.
Implement funding strategy to restricted by reduced funded from existing sources of finance, support exploration, appraisal This risk increased in 2018 due capital availability principally existing cash balances, and development activity to the potential challenges of operating cash-flows and debt funding.
and to mitigate any downside Loss of value achieving a full funding solution revenue scenarios.
Disciplined allocation of capital in Senegal.
The reserves based lending Continue to assess other forms facility was refinanced and tenure of financing and pursue claim for extended during 2018. restoration of value for Indian investment.
Senegal project finance launched in November 2018.
The Group has entered a hedging programme for Catcher and Kraken crude.
A number of financial institutions and investors have recently made policy decisions to exit oil and gas sector investment.
To date, this has not affected Cairn but if this trend accelerates there could be a future impact.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Strategic Report Strategic objective: Deliver a sustainable business continued Principal risk: Political and fiscal uncertainties Owner: Chief Financial Officer Risk appetite Medium The Group faces an uncertain macroeconomic and regulatory environment in some countries of operation.
The Group is willing to invest in countries where political and or fiscal risks may occur provided such risks can be adequately managed to minimise the impact where possible.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Loss of value Operate to the highest industry Increased risk.
Implement funding strategy to standards with regulators and monitor support exploration, appraisal Uncertain financial This risk increased in 2018 compliance with the Groups licence, and development activity and outcomes due to the increased activity Production Sharing Contract and to mitigate any downside or addition of new acreage in taxation requirements.
countries with higher above External specialist advice consulted ground risk.
on legal and tax issues as required.
Cairn continues to source new Maintain positive relationships with opportunities globally and this Governments and key stakeholders.
can be in jurisdictions deemed at higher risk of political or Ongoing monitoring of the political fiscal uncertainty.
and regulatory environments in which we operate.
The Group acquired new licences in Suriname, Cote dIvoire and Mauritania in 2018.
The Group will strive for full compliance with licence, Production Sharing Contract and taxation requirements across all assets.
The Group has also considered the potential impacts from Brexit and concluded that Cairn will not be materially affected.
The Group recognises that there are a number of uncertainties around Brexit, including the potential impact on EU nationals employed by Cairn.
The Group continues to monitor the situation closely.
Principal risk: Volatile oil and gas prices Owner: Chief Financial Officer Risk appetite Medium Exposure to commodity prices is fundamental to the Groups activities: however, the Group manages its investment programme to ensure that a threshold economic return is delivered and the business model is funded even in sustained downside price scenarios.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Reduction in Sensitivity analysis conducted to No change.
Implement funding strategy to future cash flow assess robustness of Group financial support exploration, appraisal This risk remained static in 2018. forecasts for funding plan.
and development activity and Value impairment to mitigate any downside Although oil prices have been of development Operators cost initiatives delivering revenue scenarios.
more constant in 2018, oil price projects material cost reductions on outlook remains volatile.
JV partner capital constraints Exploration projects are ranked based on the probability of commercial hydrocarbons and success case break even oil price.
40 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2018-2019 Strategic objective: Deliver a sustainable business continued Principal risk: Inability to secure or repatriate value from Indian assets Owner: Chief Financial Officer Risk appetite Medium The Group faces an uncertain macroeconomic and regulatory environment in some countries of operation.
Impact Mitigation 2018 movement 2019 KPI objectives Loss of value Arbitration hearings were held in No change.
Progress the UK-India Bilateral August in The Hague and involved treaty arbitration to conclusion This risk remained static in testimony by expert and fact witnesses and receipt of awarded sums 2018.
The Indian Income Tax and addressed Cairns claims under the in event of success.
Department has continued to UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty, enforce its retrospective tax claim Indias defences and issues against Cairn whilst the Treaty of jurisdiction.
Continued engagement with the All submissions and procedural Indian Government.
steps for the international arbitration Committed work programme is fully under the UK-India Bilateral funded from existing sources of Investment Treaty the Treaty funding, excluding proceeds from the are now complete.
India claim, principally Group cash and Drafting of the final award by the committed debt facilities.
Cairns claim under the Treaty is for monetary compensation of US$1.4billion, the sum required to reinstate the Company to the position it would have been in, but for the actions of the Indian Income Tax Department since January 2014.
In March 2019, the panel advised that the timetable for issuing the award will be more protracted than originally anticipated and is unlikely to be before late 2019.
Cairn continues to have a high level of confidence in the merits of its claims in the arbitration.
