44 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Internal control and risk management Our risk management is continually evolving Notwithstanding the redefined strategy, the Effective risk management will Risk management approach risk profile shown on page 46 has stayed be key to the successful delivery At Capita, risks are identified and largely the same as in 2017.
However, the of Capitas strategic objectives.
managed across the business, using the changes during the year have allowed us risk management framework RMF.
The company faces a range of to understand more fully the risks being This supports the Board and executive team business uncertainties and, by managed and to plan better and more in embedding effective risk management.
using a structured approach to The RMF sets out our risk management risk management, we are able The focus on risk through formalised framework and is maintained by the Risk & to understand, assess, mitigate business and executive risk committees Compliance function.
continued throughout 2018, with areas of and manage these risks.
The application of a consistent approach attention flexing to the requirements of the across all business activities should ensure The events of early 2018, which led to the different businesses as well as the wider that effective control measures are in place rights issue, are a timely reminder of the corporate exposures.
We have improved and for the risks that have the highest potential importance of continually improving the way broadened the information presented by the impacts.
Experience shows that controls we manage our risks.
The diverse nature of divisions at monthly business performance have not been embedded consistently within our businesses, the sectors we serve, and the reviews to better track a range of financial, the business and this has resulted in failures geographical reach of our operations are all non-financial, operational and conduct and external scrutiny over delivery of our key factors in the risk environment facing metrics.
These meetings are the primary PCSE and RPP contracts.
vehicle for managing corporate performance and the inclusion of these risk indicators The Board takes assurance about the A number of the Groups subsidiaries are demonstrates the standard of behaviours, management of risk from the three lines regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority conduct, culture and level of control of defence model, as shown in the graphic FCA, with others regulated by OFCOM, expected across the business.
The model is not consistently while some of the healthcare business embedded and some lines of defence are not are covered by health sector regulation.
However, there is more to do and in 2019 we yet working as they should.
Improvements to Compliance with regulatory requirements will develop and implement a control and risk ensure that the three lines model is effective helps set standards for the Group, which self-assessment approach common in many are underway and will continue during 2019. are in some cases appropriate for both the companies as a core part of improving our regulated and the non-regulated businesses.
risk management framework and approach.
To underpin execution of our simplify, strengthen and succeed strategy, work on defining and delivering a new operating model started in 2018.
This included reviewing the risks to the successful delivery of this strategy.
Top down Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 45 The Executive Risk Committee has the The company made progress during 2018 to Risk governance oversight of Capitas overall residual risks.
address some of the risks, as well as putting arrangements It in turn reports the residual position with in place the enablers to drive a stronger risk The Board is ultimately responsible for narrative from the Executive to the Audit management approach for Capitas principal the management of the risks that Capita and Risk Committee to allow full sight of the risks.
The risk management framework corporate risk profile and material issues.
Enhancing executive leadership team and the Groups associated risk appetite To ensure there is sufficient oversight of the over a 12-month period with stronger and tolerance are reviewed by the Board.
regulated financial services businesses, a functional leadership.
Significant risks are introduced, if new, or Financial Services Risk Committee is being Reorganising the business and introducing escalated, if changed for specific attention established in 2019.
Capita recognises a new operating model.
For example, in 2018 we added the importance of the financial services a risk related to the overall transformation Completing the rights issue.
businesses it operates, and the particular programme taking place across the Group.
Working with the FCA to ensure that the risks associated with financial services regulated businesses are compliant with The Board delegates responsibility for operations.
The Committee will be chaired the relevant requirements.
regular reviews of the risks managed by by an independent Non-Executive Director Capita through formal terms of reference and will report to the Executive Risk, and Enhancing the monthly business to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The risk Audit and Risk committees.
performance review process to include management process is overseen by the review of risk.
It approves the We are working to provide greater consistency annual plans for both Group Internal Audit in risk management: in particular, an enhanced and Risk & Compliance and is provided with control and risk self-assessment process is regular updates on progress throughout the being developed.
We are also adapting our year with reports on findings, issues, risk risk management framework.
Both these incidents and themes for its attention.
It sets enhancements, targeted for 2019, aim to the external audit scope and receives reports ensure the risk framework remains fit for on findings.
purpose and further embeds the commitment of the organisational leadership to work within a strong controls culture.
Risk Governance st 1 line of defence Board Day-to-day responsibility for operating the controls and risk management processes to ensure compliance with legislation, regulation, contractual obligations and policy.
Audit and Risk Committee nd 2 line of defence Executive Risk Executive and committees to provide oversight and challenge.
Risk & Compliance Committee including privacy, information security, business continuity and financial crime, establish policy and limits of authority in line with the Companys risk appetite, provide guidance on implementing and monitor adherence.
Risk, compliance and Group functions e. g. people, finance, legal and commercial provide strategic governance advice, oversight and challenge on controls and risk management.
Divisional and business rd 3 line of defence unit management Assurance of the effectiveness of the first and second line controls through independent internal and external audit, reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Local risk committees Bottom up l a C n o o m i t p a l r i a e p n c O e 46 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Internal control and risk management continued Principal risks Principal risk categories Current assessment of principal risks CURRENT ASSESSMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Our risk management framework is based around risk categories against which our businesses measure their risk exposure and report on incidents and issues.
The critical risk exposures are reported directly to the Audit and Risk Committee to provide clear line of sight.
The principal risks represent the main risks to the strategy and objectives of Capita.
13 The principal risks and uncertainties which 1 12 3 are considered to have a material impact 11 on Capitas performance and achievement 2 of its strategy are set out on the following 10 5 4 6 pages.
External and internal risk factors are considered.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive and extensive analysis of all risks which may affect our businesses.
8 Additional risks and uncertainties not 9 presently known to management, or 7 currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on our objectives.
To repeat, Capita is in year one of a fundamental transformation plan.
The principal risks reflect this: in particular, Capitas ability to meet financial expectations, deliver sales growth and protect its reputation, so as to continue to do business.
The integrated nature of the transformation plan is designed to mitigate these risks as effectively as possible.
1 F ailures of internal systems of control 8 F ailure to achieve financial expectations Accordingly, such mitigation is dependent on 2 F ailures in information security controls 9 L ack of corporate financial stability the successful implementation of this plan.
3 I ncreased business complexity 10 F ailure to innovate 4 Operational IT 11 Adverse changes in political landscape 5 F ailure to effectively manage 12 Reputation our people 6 W eaknesses in acquisition 13 Transformation and contracting 7 L egal and regulatory Risk assessment exposure to the business if risk materialises: C ritical: a crisis event: of immediate critical concern: and the maximum level of risk Capita can bear while remaining effective at delivering its strategy.
U ncomfortable: causing problems that are beginning to put uncomfortable pressure on delivery.
T olerance: a bearable, business-as-usual level of risk: recognised as an early-warning indicator: but manageable with the right people and processes in place to respond to the threat.
The graphic above shows the risk position at the end of 2018.
There was limited movement of the risk position during the year.
The transformation programme which is underway will need to be effective in changing the approach to the areas of risk to be effective.
F i n a n c i c i a l g e a t n a d r t r S e p o r t i n g Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 47 Principal risk Potential impact How we manage the risk Increased fraudulent activity Mitigating actions in 2018: 1.
Failure of internal Increased risk of Governance, boards and committees in place to review systems of control financial malpractice Internal Audit programme of work Controls do not operate effectively Increased regulatory scrutiny Monitoring of regulatory requirements or do not operate at all Increased costs associated Monthly performance tracking of risk indicators with remediation activities Assessment at year-end Reputational damage Future actions: Service detriment to our Controls and risk self-assessment This risk has partly materialised clients or end-customers Financial Services Risk Committee put in place due to some control failings Financial loss Implementation of a new finance system supported in parts of the business.
by standard processes and controls However, the control environment is assessed as sufficient to avoid material misstatement.
Significant loss of data Mitigating actions in 2018: 2.
Failure in information Loss of customer confidence Capita operates and holds certifications for ISO 27001 security controls Failure to win new business External review of cyber-resilience Information held in systems Regulatory censure fine Programme of work to remediate issues is accessed or shared in breach Remediation programme of policy Detective controls in place and regularly reviewed at Capitas expense to consider new threats Assessment at year-end Preventative controls in place and regularly updated to detect new threats During the first half of 2018, Data protection programme of work carried out some incidents occurred due to inadequate maintenance of Future actions: infrastructure controls.
The cyberComprehensive review of current status of resilience against resilience programme is being group and contract requirements redesigned to address the highest Simplify our cybersecurity through the creation of a single priority outstanding risks as soon cyber-operations centre as practical.
Strengthen our cyber-posture by developing and mandating additional capabilities, including organisational awareness and enhanced training of our people Work with organisations, such as Security Alliance a Gartner company, to help assess the threat to Capita by looking from an external viewpoint Run continuous vulnerability assessments across the estate to proactively identify weaknesses that need to be addressed Run executive cyber-training to ensure all our senior employees are aware that cybersecurity is a business responsibility and not just an IT responsibility Lack of clear accountability Mitigating actions in 2018: 3.
Increased business within the business Reorganised business into coherent divisions complexity Risk and performance Implemented a clear operating model with Business has grown into many management are more supporting governance to clarify accountabilities diverse business areas difficult to operate Simplified the range of market offerings effectively, leading to Strengthened corporate and divisional management sub-optimal outcomes Assessment at year-end for all stakeholders Disposal of non-core businesses Divisions not working Future actions: During 2018, the Group developed together, duplicating effort Embed operating models across business a new strategy, simplified its and driving up costs structure and sold some businesses.
New customer relationship management tool to be put in place Financial models agreed where divisions introduce each other Key Critical Uncomfortable 48 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Internal control and risk management continued Principal risk Potential impact How we manage the risk Disruptions to service lead Mitigating actions in 2018: 4.
Operational IT to loss of revenue Upgrade technical abilities IT infrastructure is not fit Service credits payable Investment in data centre network for purpose to clients Simplified existing IT environment Loss of confidence in Assessment at year-end Capitas IT systems Change management processes help reduce risk and unplanned outages During the year, a programme to Future actions: address ineffective maintenance Continued activity on simplifying data centre of the technical infrastructure network Continued investment in IT resilience was established.
Loss of key employees Mitigating actions in 2018: 5.
Failure to effectively Unable to attract the right Chief People Officer appointed manage our people people with the right skills Focus on culture from the top Unable to recruit and retain Lack of skilled, Strengthened senior leadership team key employees competent resource People strategy defined Increased cost of recruitment Assessment at year-end due to high attrition rates Improved engagement across the business Unable to deliver Capita Academy launched The professionalisation of Capitas strategy the people function provides Future actions: Lack of continuity at a platform to address the Executive Committee level Focus on succession planning and development of employees ineffective controls in this area.
Talent reviews, enabling employees to identify new opportunities and to move to new roles within Capita Investment into new HR systems Loss of contracts Mitigating actions in 2018: 6.
Weaknesses in Lack of ability to acquire Contract Review Committee in place to better understand acquisition and new business contract risks in new or existing arrangements contracting Contract terms are punitive Future actions: Entering into poorly worded Contract terms are not Delivery of a clearly defined Contract Management process contracts to our detriment met or understood Transactions committee to be put in place Loss of profits Assessment at year-end Exposure to unexpected costs or onerous terms Past weaknesses with contract Brand and reputation initiation and management damage if not are being addressed through managed effectively stronger governance.
Acquisition synergies are not realised Key Critical Uncomfortable Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 49 Principal risk Potential impact How we manage the risk Censure or fine from Mitigating actions in 2018: 7.
Legal and regulatory a regulator Regular risk committee meetings held throughout the year, Breaking the law or not Reputational damage including the Audit and Risk Committee meeting regulations Lack of confidence from Engagement with regulatory bodies investors and customers Specialist team monitoring and engaging with regulators Assessment at year-end Data Subject Access over proposed regulatory or legal changes requests not completed The environment is more Chief General Counsel appointed within required timescales complex and work is underway Increased costs due to Legal team in place across the divisions to manage potential to strengthen our response remediation activities and actual issues in all areas.
Increased regulatory Future actions: scrutiny which could limit Financial Services Risk Committee to focus on financial potential for growth services risk Development of controls and risk self-assessment tool Refresh and roll-out of a revised risk framework Loss of revenues, profits and Mitigating actions in 2018: 8.
Failure to achieve or cash flows Move to a multi-year strategic planning range financial expectations Failure to return to organic Detailed bottom-up Board-approved business plan Adverse performance against revenue growth for 2019 and 2020 our stated business plans Loss in shareholder value Enhanced monthly performance reviews Undermines Clearer financial and operational KPIs at business, Assessment at year-end investor confidence divisional and functional level Erodes corporate position The Group has clear targets in the market New Executive Committee governance committees for 2020 and is strengthening Weakens our ability to Appointed Chief Growth Officer business management to secure attract and retain the their delivery.
Future actions: best people Delivery of upgraded financial systems, processes and controls Deep-dive review of businesses to assess progress against the new strategy Plan to drive revenue growth Increase in leverage Mitigating actions in 2018: 9.
Lack of corporate Inflexible balance sheet Launched new strategy financial stability Lack of cash to invest Completion of the rights issue Failure to manage financial Inability to grow Disposal of non-core businesses exposures and access to finance Lack of confidence from Reduction in leverage investors and customers Assessment at year-end Early repayment of debt Targeted investment The balance sheet is stronger and more resilient, with more Achieving 70m of cost-out savings to do in 2019.
Developed a plan to address pension deficit Future actions: Further repayment of debt Key Critical Uncomfortable 50 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Internal control and risk management continued Principal risk Potential impact How we manage the risk Inability to grow and develop Mitigating actions in 2018: 10.
Failure to innovate into new markets Strengthened the executive team with a Chief Digital Officer Not keeping up with technology Loss of new and existing and Chief Growth Officer or other changes business to competitors Working with external technology partners to develop Erodes corporate position our digital offering Assessment at year-end in the market Share market innovation best practice internally Weakens our ability to During 2018, more governance attract and retain the and structures were set up best people to support innovation.
Unable to compete with others who are innovative Fewer outsourcing Mitigating actions in 2018: 11.
Adverse changes in opportunities offered Engagement with Government and other parties political landscape by the public sector e. g. regulators to understand current thinking Existing business no Unable to operate under a different Preparations made in relation to Brexit longer outsourced political regime Understanding of client requirements for Brexit if there Exposure to markets with is a transition period or no deal with Europe limited growth opportunities Assessment at year-end Future actions: Loss of revenues, profits and or cashflows 2018 saw some changes but the Build a broader base of understanding about Capita as environment remains uncertain.
a transforming business, committed to delivery of service Demonstrate value delivered in public sector Loss of confidence in Capita Mitigating actions in 2018: 12.
Reputation Clients suffer Director of Corporate Affairs appointed Poorly thought of by reputational damage Reactive and proactive management of media stories our stakeholders Fewer or no new contracts Working with selected media to promote Capitas Loss of revenues, profits and positive image Assessment at year-end or cash flows Future actions: Unattractive proposition for There were some issues with Deliver new corporate affairs strategy shareholders to invest in challenging contracts in 2018 but Ensure Capitas multi-year transformation is understood the building blocks for a better and clearly communicated to all stakeholders reputation are in place.
Embed new corporate purpose, and refreshed values and behaviours A more complex business Mitigating actions in 2018: 13.
Transformation that is unmanageable Blueprint used to ensure consistent approach to Making the business fit for Loss of revenues, profits operating model across divisions and functions the future and or cash flows Chief Transformation Officer appointed Money spent on Focus by Executive Committee on risks Assessment at year-end transformation is wasted Simplification is the way to strengthen the business Business is not fit Future actions: This was a new risk in 2018 due to for the future the scale and pace of the company Complete operating model work transformation underway.
Embed the new model Key Critical Uncomfortable Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 51 Emerging risk Impact of Brexit While the details around the UKs scheduled departure from the EU remained unclear at the time of writing this Annual Report, Capita has continued to review a range of Brexit scenarios and conducted contingency planning.
We have taken steps to manage risk in specific areas and are not aware of any material company-specific impacts from Brexit.
We are therefore confident that there will be no significant disruption to the services we offer clients.
Capita employs a significant number of EU nationals, and we want to see maximum certainty for our valued employees and colleagues.
We are providing guidance and support for those who are applying for settled status in the UK.
Our preparations for any Brexit scenario, including a no deal exit, include safeguards to ensure resilience around potential changes to data protection rules, procurement rules and immigration requirements.
As with other companies, Capita would be subject to any deterioration in the economy occurring as a result of Brexit.
We continue to monitor political developments and consider scenarios as the Governments plans and positions develop.
Other risk factors Protecting our information and data Cyber-attacks Protecting the data of our clients, our company and our people Cyber-attacks continue to negatively impact all industry sectors.
is one of the most fundamental and important responsibilities Capita fully recognises the persistent cyber-threat posed we have.
Our Data Protection and Information Security by criminals and nation-states, and that cyber-attacks are Policies, Standards and Procedures ensure we treat personal increasing both in their number and in their sophistication.
information correctly, in accordance with the law and best practice.
When we process personal information including The Board remains focused on ensuring our businesses and sensitive personal information, we ensure that we comply with systems are resilient against the latest cyber-threats and these policies, standards and procedures including its collection, have instigated a cyber-resilience programme.
Supported by storage, use, retention, transfer, deletion and safe destruction.
external and internal cybersecurity subject matter experts, the cyber-resilience programme liaises with our businesses and In order to ensure compliance with the Data Protection Act IT providers to implement and maintain robust preventative 2018 and General Data Protection Regulations, we have security controls throughout Capitas IT estate.
As a managed implemented a comprehensive programme, including a network service provider, we recognise our role within our clients supply of trained privacy professionals who provide expert help and chain, and the increasing cyber-threat posed by nation-state assistance for anyone handling data within our business or on resourced actors targeting our clients.
We continue to work closely with UK Government agencies We continue to raise awareness of the importance of data and our partner organisations, to help protect our clients protection and privacy through our mandatory data protection digital assets and services, and the key parts of the national training and ongoing training programmes, in particular the information infrastructure with which we are entrusted.
Think Privacy: Think Security campaigns.
