Principal Risks and Uncertainties Good risk management is an integral part of business planning and achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board and the senior management team are collectively responsible for managing risks and uncertainties across the Group.
In determining the Groups risk appetite and how risks are managed, the Board, Audit and Risk Committee and the senior management team look to ensure an appropriate balance is achieved which enables the Group to achieve its strategic and operational objectives and facilitates the long-term success of the Group.
The Groups Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups risk management framework and ensuring that it enables the Committee and the Board to carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board reviews the Groups most significant risks at least twice a year, in addition to periodically challenging the Executive Directors in relation to any specific concerns and as to what they consider to be the risks which would keep them awake at night.
Further details of our risk management framework are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out below, together with details of how these are currently mitigated and if they have changed since last year: Risk Type Description Mitigation Our market The Group continues to generate Regular customer and market research.
almost all of its revenue from the New experienced Commercial and Studio Directors will support product Since 2017 sale of greeting cards, dressings strategy and innovation and collaboration between design and buying and gifts.
Although the Group has a proven Significant additional investment in marketing team to drive awareness track record of understanding our and customer focus.
customers, trends and tastes can change quickly and we may not Investment in online teams supporting development of multiple sales be able to effectively predict and channels to respond to changing consumer demands.
respond to this which could Strong focus on product innovation with designs regularly refreshed and affect our sales, performance and new ranges introduced.
EPOS sales data from all stores driving design and purchasing decisions.
Weekly trading meetings driving better real-time decision-making.
Vertically integrated model helps the Group position itself to quickly respond to changes in its markets with further investment evaluated continuously.
Competition Competition in our markets has All key elements of competitor activity are closely monitored with a intensified during the year business programme now dedicated to our strategic approach to Since 2017 particularly during key seasons competition.
with supermarkets and national In-house design and print operations help innovate, differentiate and value retailers at the forefront.
improve the quality and value of our offering.
Product choice and quality, store Regular evaluation of further investment in our vertically integrated location and design, inventory, model which underpins our competitive position.
price and customer service Significant additional investment in marketing team to drive awareness remain key to differentiating our and customer focus.
As the quality, value and range we offer grows, our Rigorous store selection process and performance reviews.
Many Continuous review of customer trends and behaviours supported by of our significant competitors more targeted externally facilitated customer research.
enjoy strong brand presence recognition, financial resources and purchasing economies of scale, any of which could give them a competitive advantage.
24 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials Risk Type Description Mitigation Our brands Card Factory and Getting Rigorous protection of our intellectual property, and guidance and Personal are the Groups key education for our teams.
Protecting and Investment in developing our retail colleagues through our new enhancing them underpins our ACardemy programme.
If we are unable to Comprehensive review of our store estate and opportunities for protect them or if we fail to improvement.
sustain our appeal to our Annual market research confirming current perception of our brand and customers, our reputation and development opportunities.
our sales and future prospects could be jeopardised.
All key elements of competitor activity are closely monitored with a business programme now in place dedicated to our strategic approach to competition.
In-house design and print operations help innovate, differentiate and improve the quality and value of our offering.
Further development and investment in processes that ensure product quality, safety and ethical production.
Our strategy The Groups four pillar strategy Implementation of, and performance against, strategy monitored both has been developed with the aim at Board and senior management team level.
Since 2017 of achieving long-term value for Annual Board and senior management team strategy review days.
If the strategy Business objectives, and how we prioritise and communicate these are and vision for the business are set in the context of our four pillar strategy and aligned with our Mission, not developed, communicated or Vision and Values.
delivered, performance could Further significant investment in senior management team to ensure we suffer.
Strategy implementation have capacity and capability to deliver and develop our strategy.
requires careful prioritisation of resource to ensure a focus on Competitor analysis, customer and market research and enhanced EPOS those initiatives that drive sales data used to drive development of our offer.
Our supply Third-parties, including many in Strong relationships with key suppliers.
chain the Far East, supply nearly all of Continuously diversifying supplier base providing greater flexibility and our complementary non-card reducing reliance on individual suppliers.
Since 2017 products, handcrafted greeting Periodic inspections and third-party facilitated technical and ethical cards and certain raw materials.
If audits of factories operated by major suppliers.
they fail to satisfy orders it may Sedex membership the Supplier Ethics Data Exchange.
affect the business or result in us having to find alternative Further development and investment in processes that ensure product suppliers, who may not be able to quality, safety and ethical production.
We are also exposed to changes in supplier dynamics and increases in raw material prices.
Our supplier profile means we are subject to the risks of manufacturing and importing of goods from overseas including freight costs and duty, as well as supply interruption and reputational risk arising from supplier labour practices.
Culture and As the Group has grown and The Groups Mission, Vision and Values have been defined by and leadership transitioned from private equity communicated to our colleagues.
ownership to being publically The Groups organisational structure has been reviewed and Since 2017 owned, it has experienced restructured.
significant leadership change The Groups leadership principles are being defined and will be NEW across its senior management cascaded throughout the business.
team and retaining and Both talent and management development programmes are now in developing the culture and place.
people which have been the foundation of its success to date is critical to the Groups future growth.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Type Description Mitigation Key personnel The Groups strategy and Kris Lee succeeded Darren Bryant as CFO and has been through an long-term success depend on our extensive tailored induction.
Since 2017 ability to: implement succession Talent development programme instigated to support development of plans for the senior management future leaders overseen by Group HR Director.
team: develop our colleagues: and invest in our teams to ensure Further development for senior management team.
we have the capacity and Leadership principles being defined and will be cascaded.
Senior management team bolstered by recruitment of Commercial Director, Supply Chain Director, Design Studio Director, Multi-Channel and Customer Director and IT Director.
The Groups remuneration policy set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 66 is designed to ensure management incentives reflect the business, are aligned with its strategic objectives and support the long-term success of the Group for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Managing In the period since IPO, the Group Organisational design reviewed and restructured by CEO.
change has experienced significant Alignment of key business programmes with strategic objectives within change in its management team our Four Pillars.
Since 2017 and in some of the systems and processes that will support its Board receives regular updates on key business programmes to support future growth and improve challenge at the start of and during these programmes.
The speed and Additional Non-Executive Director recruited with significant experience management of these changes of business change and transformation.
introduces a risk of management overload and business as usual Senior management team bolstered by recruitment of Commercial activities could be compromised.
Director, Supply Chain Director, Design Studio Director, Multi-Channel and Customer Director and IT Director.
Talent development programme instigated to support development of future leaders overseen by Group HR Director.
Finance and Our financing arrangements and Adequacy of current financing and cash generation and their ability to treasury the fact that we source a support delivery of Group strategy are regularly monitored by the CFO.
significant proportion of our Treasury management processes and policy in place to govern cash Since 2017 products from the Far East mean management and manage exposure to foreign exchange and interest that a lack of appropriate levels rate fluctuations including those resulting from the Brexit decision.
of covenant headroom and or cash resources in the Group, or Treasury strategy reviewed and approved annually by the Board with significant variations in interest or periodic consultation between the CFO and the Audit and Risk exchange rates, could have an Committee Chairman.
impact on our operations and Foreign exchange and interest rate hedging contracts pre-approved performance.
The CFOs Review directly by the CFO and communicated to the Board monthly.
on page 21 sets out in further detail the risk to the Group of CFO undertaking comprehensive review of cost base as part of our exchange rate fluctuations.
Further details of the Groups financial position are described in the CFOs Review on pages 20 to 23 and the Groups viability statement is on pages 70 and 71 of the Directors Report.
Business Significant disruption to any part The Groups crisis management arrangements continue to be developed continuity of our vertically integrated with guidance from the Audit and Risk Committee.
business model, in particular to Multiple scenario crisis management exercise held during the year.
Since 2017 our printing facility, Printcraft, Report and recommendations provided to the Audit and Risk our distribution centre or our Committee.
design studio, could severely affect our ability to supply our Significant additional infrastructure investment in Printcraft mitigating stores and could force us to use power surge and fire risk.
third-parties which could be Stock held across multiple locations to mitigate the risk of a catastrophic expensive and on onerous terms.
event at any one of our storage facilities.
Group IT systems are subject to specific disaster recovery arrangements.
The Group also maintains appropriate business interruption insurance cover.
26 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials Risk Type Description Mitigation Compliance The number and complexity of Groups General Counsel and Company Secretary oversees compliance legal and regulatory compliance with the support of external advisers.
Senior management team Since 2017 requirements impacting the members liaise with him to ensure issues are identified and managed.
business continues to grow Key legislation trackers are in place with the Board receiving regular including: Modern Slavery Act, updates.
GDPR, Gender Pay Gap Reporting, Payment Practices Additional investment in the Groups legal team.
and National Living and Minimum Cross Group team supporting the Groups preparation for GDPR.
Compliance is time intensive and costly and failure to Senior management team members manage compliance of the comply could lead to claims, Groupskey operational teams with escalation and disciplinary action penalties, damages, fines or where needed.
reputational damage which, in Policies and procedures governing behaviours in all key areas, some some cases, are very material and could significantly impact the addressing mandatory requirements and others adopted voluntarily.
Information Reliable, efficient and resilient IT EPOS and contactless payment now in place across all of our stores.
technology systems across the Group, and New Group IT Director developing Group IT strategy.
particularly those supporting our Since 2017 retail operations and our Formal IT governance process adopted managed by IT steering group vertically integrated model are that has jurisdiction over all material IT projects.
Significant investment in IT infrastructure enhancing cyber security measures following a review and recommendations from Deloitte LLP.
Failure to adequately develop and maintain these or any Key IT risks are documented and agreed service levels for recovery of prolonged system performance key business systems are in place.
problems or cyber-attack could seriously affect our ability to implement the Groups strategy and to carry on the business and could render us liable to significant fines and reputational damage.
Online The Groups transactional Multi-Channel and Customer Director recruited to drive growth of websites, www.
co. uk Significant investment in the Card Factory online team.
remain relatively new and developing parts of the business SLAs in place and monitored for fulfilment of orders.
but are critically one of our four Development in www.
co. uk product ranges, choice and strategic pillars.
They operate in very competitive markets with relatively low Focus on leveraging Design Studio online team that will drive barriers to entry.
If they do not differentiation and product innovation.
evolve to meet customers expectations they may not deliver Improvement in operations with a focus on customer service.
Factoring in device shift by consumers in development of our websites.
This may also affect our reputation and customer Monitoring consumer online behaviours and sentiment.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27
