Internal control and risk management within Carnival Corporation & plc is an ongoing process embedded in each of our operations.
It is designed to identify, evaluate and manage the principal risks faced bythe units.
Asystem of internal controls designed to be capable of responding quickly to evolving risks in the business has been established, comprising procedures for the prompt reporting of significant and material internal control deficiencies together with the appropriate remedial actions.
Carnival Corporation & plc has adopted the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO guidance for implementing its internal controls as part of our SOXcompliance plan.
COSOis considered to be the model internal control framework and references the same internal control objectives and components as are used bythe UKCorporate Governance Codein assessing the effectiveness of a companys risk and control processes.
Thesystem of internal control wasin place throughout fiscal 2018and has continued in place upto the date of approval of this Strategic Report.
Thesystem is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
TheBODsconfirm that they have performed their annual review of its effectiveness and that it is in compliance with the UKCorporate Governance Code.
TheBODsreview of the system of internal controls has not identified any significant failings or weaknesses, and therefore, noremedial actions are required.
Risk Management and or Mitigation of Principal Risks.
Youshould carefully consider the specific risk factors set forth below and the other information contained or incorporated byreference in this document, as these are important factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from our expected or historical results.
Some of the statements in this item and elsewhere in this document are forward-looking statements.
For a discussion of those statements and of other factors to consider see the Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results section below.
Theordering and lettering of the risk factors set forth below is not intended to reflect any Company indication of priority or likelihood.
a. Adverseworldevents impactingtheability ordesire ofpeopletotravel mayleadtoadecline indemandfor cruises We may be impacted bythe publics concerns regarding the safety and security of travel, including government travel advisories and travel restrictions, political instability and civil unrest, and other general concerns.
Additionally, wemay be impacted byheightened regulations around customs and border control, travel bans to and from certain geographical areas, government policies increasing the difficulty of travel and limitations on issuing international travel visas.
We may also be impacted byadverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate, such as global or regional recessions, higher unemployment and underemployment rates and declines in income levels.
In 2019, uncertainties resulting from the UKsexpected exit from the European Union may impact our business.
Examples of how we manage and or mitigate this principal risk: We coordinate with law enforcement and intelligence agencies around the globe and endeavor to identify security-related threats at sea and ashore We have communications programs to help mitigate the adverse impacts of publicity We have the ability to redeploy our ships to alternative regions of the world b.
Incidents concerning ourships, guestsorthecruise vacation industry     damage Ouroperations involve the risk of incidents and media coverage thereof.
Suchincidents include, but are not limited to, the improper operation or maintenance of ships, motorcoaches and trains: guest and crew illnesses: mechanical failures, fires and collisions: repair delays, groundings and navigational errors: oil spills and other maritime and environmental issues as well as other incidents at sea or while in port or onland which may cause guest and crew discomfort, injury, or death.
Although our commitment to the safety and comfort of our guests and crew is paramount to the success of our business, our ships have been involved in accidents and other incidents in the past and wemay experience similar or other incidents in the future.
50 Ourcruise ships, hotels, land tours, port and related commercial facilities and shore excursions may be impacted byadverse weather patterns or other natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, tornados, tsunamis, typhoons and volcanic eruptions.
It is possible that wecould be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or a series of cruises or tours due to these or other types of disruptions.
In addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our guests or crews ability or desire to travel to or from our ships and or interrupt the supply of critical goods and services.
Examples of how we manage and or mitigate this principal risk: We provide training to employees related to their job responsibilities to ensure understanding of and compliance with our policies and procedures We have the ability to change our ship itineraries to avoid adverse weather or regions impacted by adverse weather We report health, environmental, safety and security incidents and take appropriate action to reduce the risk of recurrence We have appropriate policies that govern behavior We have communications programs to help mitigate the adverse impacts of publicity c.   underwhichweoperate, suchasthoserelating to health, environment, safety andsecurity, dataprivacy andprotection, anti-corruption, economicsanctions, tradeprotection , enforcement actions, fines, penalties, andreputational damage We are subject to numerous international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties and other legal requirements that govern health, environmental, safety and security matters in relation to our guests, crew and ships.
These requirements change regularly, sometimes ona daily basis, depending onthe itineraries of our ships and the ports and countries visited.
If weviolate or fail to comply with any of these laws, regulations, treaties and other requirements wecould be, and have previously been, fined or otherwise sanctioned byregulators.
We are subject to laws and requirements related to the treatment and protection of sensitive data in the jurisdictions where weoperate.
Various governments, agencies and regulatory organizations have enacted or are considering newrules and regulations.
In the course of doing business, wecollect guest, employee, company and other third-party data, including personally identifiable information and other sensitive data.
Ouroperations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption laws and regulations.
We may also be affected byeconomic sanctions, trade protection laws, policies and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment.
We are also subject to compliance with tax laws, regulations and treaties in the jurisdictions in which weare incorporated or operate.
These tax laws, regulations and treaties are subject to change at any time, which may result in substantially higher tax liabilities.
Additionally, the relevant authorities interpretation of tax laws, regulations and treaties could differ materially from ours.
Examples of how we manage and or mitigate this principal risk: We monitor for changes in laws and regulations and changes in interpretation of these laws and regulations relating to our business.
Where necessary, weobtain specialist advice to implement programs to help ensure compliance We have appropriate policies and procedures that govern behavior We provide training to employees related to their job responsibilities to ensure understanding of and compliance with our policies and procedures We perform audits and monitor our owncompliance and where incidents occur, take appropriate action to prevent recurrence d.   aswellasdisruptions  offices, information technology operations   in technology mayadversely impactourbusiness operations, thesatisfaction  reputational damage We may be impacted bybreaches in data security and lapses in data privacy, which occur from time to time.
These can vary in scope and intent from economically driven attacks to malicious attacks targeting our key 51 Strategic Report operating systems with the intent to disrupt or compromise our shoreside and shipboard operations.
Like many companies, wehave been and continue to be subject to unauthorized access or use of digital systems and networks through human error or for purposes of misappropriating assets or obtaining sensitive financial, medical or other personal or business information.
Ourprincipal offices, information technology operations and system networks may be impacted byactual or threatened natural disasters for example, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, tornados, tsunamis, typhoons and volcanic eruptions or other disruptive events.
Ourmaritime and or shoreside operations, including our ability to manage our inventory of cabins held for sale and set pricing, control costs, and serve our guests, depends onthe reliability of our information technology operations and system networks as well as our ability to refine and update to more advanced systems and technologies.
Examples of how we manage and or mitigate this principal risk: We have appropriate policies and procedures that govern data security, data privacy and disaster recovery We provide training to employees related to their job responsibilities to ensure understanding of and compliance with our policies and procedures related to data security, data privacy and disaster recovery We monitor and test our ownability to detect and respond to an incident which could cause a breach in data security, lapse in data privacy or natural disaster and where incidents occur, take appropriate action We continue to align our technology planning, infrastructure, security and applications to maximize the business value of our information technology investments e. Ability torecruit, developandretain qualified shipboardpersonnel wholive   impactourbusiness operations, guestservices andsatisfaction We hire a significant number of qualified shipboard personnel each year and, thus, our ability to adequately recruit, develop and retain these individuals is critical to our success.
Incidents involving cruise ships and the related adverse media publicity, adverse economic conditions that negatively affect our profitability and increasing demand as a result of our and the industrys projected growth could negatively impact our ability to recruit, develop and retain sufficient qualified shipboard personnel.
Examples of how we manage and or mitigate this principal risk: We have programs to attract, develop and retain top talent and use employee feedback tools to monitor employees perspectives and take appropriate actions We provide training to continue the development of our employees related to their job responsibilities and to ensure understanding of and compliance with policies and procedures We provide total compensation that allows us to be competitive in the labor markets in which we operate We continue to expand the number of countries from which werecruit our employees f. Increases infuelprices andavailability  impactourscheduled itineraries and costs We may be impacted byeconomic, market and political conditions around the world, such as fuel demand, regulatory requirements, supply disruptions and related infrastructure needs, which make it difficult to predict the future price and availability of fuel.
Future increases in the global price of fuel wouldincrease the cost of our cruise ship operations as well as some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices.
Increases in airfares, which could result from increases in the price of fuel, wouldincrease our guests overall vacation costs as many of our guests depend onairlines to transport them to or from the airports near the ports where our cruises embark and disembark.
Additionally, certain of our ships are designed to use LNGas a fuel source.
Atthis time, the marine LNG distribution infrastructure is in the early stages of development with a limited number of suppliers and purchasing is usually made through long-term contracts.
We may experience difficulties in operating and maintaining new LNG-basedengine technology.
52 Examples of how we manage and or mitigate this principal risk: We manage fuel consumption through ship maintenance practices We have the ability to change our itineraries to reduce fuel consumption We research and implement innovative technologies to reduce fuel consumption We are adding new, more fuel-efficient ships to our fleet and are opportunistically disposing of smaller, less fuel efficient ships g. Fluctuations inforeign currency  impactourfinancial results We earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase and ownassets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the U. S. dollar.
Additionally, our shipbuilding contracts are typically denominated in euros.
Movements in foreign currency exchange rates will affect our financial results.
Examples of how we manage and or mitigate this principal risk: We net certain exposures to take advantage of natural offsets and continuously evaluate the use of financial instruments We hedge certain of our ship commitments and net investments in foreign operations We sell buy foreign currencies throughout the year to manage the economic impact of foreign currency exchange volatility We adjust our procurement activities h. Overcapacity andcompetition inthecruise andland-based vacation industry mayleadtoadecline inour cruise salesandpricing We may be impacted byincreases in capacity in the cruise and land-based vacation industry, which may result in capacity growth beyond demand, either globally or for a region or for a particular itinerary.
We face competition from other cruise brands onthe basis of overall experience, destinations, types and sizes of ships and cabins, travel agent preferences and value.
In addition, wecompete with land-based vacation alternatives throughout the world onthe basis of overall experience, destinations and value.
Examples of how we manage and or mitigate this principal risk: We have strategies to growdemand byincreasing consumer awareness and consideration of our cruise brands and the global cruise industry We have the ability to change our itineraries to alternative regions of the world We offer a wide variety of brands, itineraries, products and services to our guests i.   notdevelop howweexpect Aswecontinue to expand our global presence, it requires, among other things, significant levels of management resources, capital and other investments.
For example, wemay be required to localize our cruise products and services to conform to local cultures, standards, policies and regulations.
Asa result, it may be more difficult for us to replicate our successful core business models and wemay not be able to recover our investments in these markets.
In addition, wecannot be certain that these markets, such as China, will ultimately develop as we expect.
Examples of how we manage and or mitigate this principal risk: We utilize local sales teams to motivate travel agents to support our products and services We have the ability to change our ship itineraries We have global strategies to growdemand byincreasing consumer awareness and consideration of our cruise brands and the global cruise industry j.
Inability  ,  may adversely impactourbusiness operations andthesatisfaction ofourguests 53 Strategic Report
