STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management Risk management allows the Group to improve its decision making process and deliver its objectives.
Mark Arnesen Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee The management of risks through The Groups risk management RISK MANAGEMENT IN 2019: identification, monitoring and framework the Framework outlines mitigation allows the Group to the business approach and process for holding workshops with our improve its decision-making process, management of risk.
workforce to embed our values deliver on its objectives and improve and cultural identity as a leading Risk oversight and accountability its performance as a mining company.
operator, dedicated to As shown in the table and diagram improving health, safety and The Board of Centamin plc below, ultimate accountability for risk wellbeing: the Board has overall responsibility management lies with the Board, quarterly reporting by each for establishing a robust risk supported by the Audit and Risk operating unit following management framework that allows Committee.
We have acknowledged structure risk meetings: for the assessment and management the importance of developing our management assessment of risks of material strategic and operational approach to risk management and across all central functions and risks.
In addition, the Board is continue to engage with PwC to operational locations: responsible for articulating the support in the development of a Audit and Risk Committee Groups risk appetite against the framework allowing identification, oversight of operational and principal risks.
assessment, mitigation and corporate risks: monitoring of risks throughout the The Board reviews existing and Board assessment of principal business.
This has been developed to emerging risks in the context of both and emerging risks: and ensure we have in place the three opportunities and potential threats.
clear lines of defence, whilst ensuring strategy day for the Board to This is then applied when challenging the information that flows from the consider risks and the strategic objectives of the reporting lines is relevant and timely opportunities and further Company that underpin the and can genuinely support the Boards understand the collective and business model.
Audit and Risk First line of defence Direct reporting Board Committee Second line of defence Review and discuss Senior Third line of defence Management Business risk Risk register Management Operational locations Central functions HSE Security Finance Internal Sukari Cte dIvoire Burkina Faso Audit HR IT Admin Legal 1st line: Front-line ownership of risk, process, reporting and effectiveness 2nd line: Oversight and challenge by the central functions, 3rd line: Independent management and the risk function assurance 38 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT RISK OVERSIGHT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITY Board Ultimate responsibility for risk management and communicating the Framework Audit and Risk Committee Independently reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of risk, has oversight of the policies setting the Framework and oversees the implementation of risk management Executive Senior Management Responsible for ensuring that each of the operations and Group functions implements the Framework Operations Responsible for implementing the Framework and providing assurance to the Executive Central functions Provide assurance to the Executive and have oversight and review of common risk areas relating to their key functions Risk Committee The Executive consolidates, challenges and reports on all risk management information, providing support and guidance to management to develop and co-ordinate the system of risk management Internal Audit Provides assurance to senior management and the Audit and Risk Committee on the effectiveness of the Framework and how that has been applied across the business Risk reporting Management consider the business During the year the following reports and risk registers as well as full emerging risks were considered: Further details of the work of the details and corrective actions of all Audit and Risk Committee are set out Corporate action: high level incidents, leading indicators in the audit and risk report along with Risk impact: secondary to the hazard identification and any resulting details of the internal risk reporting.
principal risks and remains at a procedural changes.
Importantly, a key area of focus will level of elevated status.
be in developing a fresh reporting Periodic incident and other As a listed company, management platform, developed from an operational reports, updates to the must be ready to evaluate operational level up through the operational risk registers and regular approaches and opportunities to reporting channels, to enhance the communication with the site GM allow ensure value for shareholders is information provided to the Board management to assess emerging risks maintained and enhanced.
and to aid decision making.
or secondary risks that may elevate to The mining industry has recently principal risks.
By identifying The Executive and senior seen a number of high-profile emerging risks or changes in the management review, challenge and mergers and consolidations over secondary or tertiary risk registers monitor ongoing risks on a day-to-day the year and the Board needs to early, management are able to basis.
The consolidation and analysis review any approaches and consider policy or procedural changes of this information is assessed on a opportunities so as to ensure to mitigate the risk.
Additional quarterly basis and reported to the the interests of shareholders are resources or training needs may be Board through the Audit and protected.
At an operational level, Risk Committee.
long term models which support opportunities may exist to improve the valuation of the Company.
Emerging risks the safety environment and efficiency Governance and regulation: Due in part to the nature of the of the operations.
Opportunities may Risk impact: secondary to the business as an operating mining also exist at a strategic or corporate principal risks and remains at a company, the headline principal risks, level and will be discussed in the level of elevated status.
whilst fundamental to the ongoing context of wider strategy setting.
Compliance with the regulatory and The use of insurance, consultants and The Committee and Board regularly legal environment has the potential specialists to help mitigate risks may review the principal risks as well as the for significant negative publicity in also be an option.
wider operational, corporate and including fines and penalties and general business risks.
The regulatory reviews can demand significant time commitments on management and Directors.
The management team ensures it has access to legal, regulatory and compliance support across the jurisdictions.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued Emerging risks continued Retention of personnel Centamin has no history of tailings Risk impact: emerging risk to failures, but as a matter of policy Business development: ensure we retain, attract and Sukari has an emergency action Risk impact: opportunities to motivate employees.
plan for potential failures that are develop and grow the business.
It is There have been a number of key Egypt continues to represent a important to note that the nearest changes over the last twelve significant opportunity for external community, Marsa Alam, is months in key personnel across exploration and future located approximately 35km away senior roles.
As the countrys only from the TSF and not in the transition as we replace General modern gold mine, the Companys catchment area in the event of a Managers and fill vacancy needs.
knowledge and expertise is a dam failure.
During 2018, Centamin However, management of changes potential advantage to Centamin.
also commenced a study to design in senior positions needs to be The opportunity has been an additional TSF at Sukari.
This will managed carefully, to ensure enhanced as the government be an active downstream dam with consistent delivery of the makes progress towards a new targeted completion in 2024.
Companys values and that the mining law and new commercial workforce remains well supported.
terms for exploration in the region.
Risk appetite The Executive and management Tailing Storage Facility TSF This report covers the Boards team are monitoring progress and Risk impact: heightened assessment of the Companys risk ensuring close dialogue with awareness in the industry.
appetite, principal risks and viability government officials are statement.
incidents in the mining sector there Centamin accepts that the exploration has been an increased interest from Capital projects: for and development of metals and stakeholders in understanding the Risk impact: emerging risk to mineral resources, together with the level of risk associated with mining ensure management of capital.
construction and development of companies tailings facilities.
The Ensuring capital projects are mining operations, is an activity that Sukari South TSF is lined to reduce managed within time and budget is involves a high degree of risk.
The the impact of any seepage or an emerging risk, as the Company Group therefore can only manage, contamination of soil and considers major capital projects.
rather than eliminate risk completely.
It is reviewed These include the potential Solar In considering risk appetite, the Board according to regulatory and internal plant at Sukari, the development of considered the level of acceptable risk requirements, and water samples the new tailings storage facility and tolerance, the attitude and culture taken from adjacent wells and feasibility studies to assess the towards risk and the ways in which the boreholes to monitor for seepage.
viability of an operation in Cte Board can influence risk appetite Centamins Geotechnical dIvoire.
Careful management of throughout the business.
department conducts internal and these projects, the teams and the In considering risk appetite, the Board external technical reviews of the capital allocation will be imperative.
is clear that Centamin has a zero tailings storage facility on a regular Local security West Africa: tolerance to breaches in health and basis.
It is also inspected on a Risk impact: emerging risk to safety and environmental protection.
regular basis by independent ensure safety of employees.
The Board invests heavily in a consultants and the latest Increased militant activity in programme of continuous inspection was carried out in West Africa has caused concern improvement in health and safety November 2018.
The latest review for safety in-country.
This will practices and has an expectation to confirmed the structural integrity of be monitored closely and local meet the highest standards.
the TSF, however the lower water Gendarmes and Centamin security recycling off the TSF in 2018 has The Group has a high risk appetite personnel are being consulted.
created an excess of water above towards its strategic objectives, such acceptable levels and managing that risks are reduced to reasonably this water off the TSF is being practicable levels, in the pursuit of managed over the next six months.
mineral exploration, development and gold production.
Meeting environmental, regulatory and legal obligations takes priority over other business objectives.
40 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT The Board agreed that due to the Principal risks Of particular note is the susceptibility nature and inherent risks associated of a change in the estimated average Centamin takes a number of measures with an operating mining company, grade delivered from the to mitigate risks associated with its the Board accepts a higher risk underground operation at Sukari.
underlying operational and appetite, however this needs to be A reduction in grade can significantly exploration activity which are managed within acceptable limits by affect production levels, which could monitored and evaluated regularly.
having appropriate safeguards in have a material impact of annual Due to the nature of these inherent place.
The principal risks identified by production guidance.
The quality of risks, it is not possible to give absolute the Board and disclosed below, personnel, management and oversight assurance that mitigating actions will evidence the extent of potential in preparing and delivering the mine be wholly effective.
consequences inherent in operating a plan can all significantly impact the During the year the Company large-scale mining operation.
The reliability and successful extraction of experienced two major production Board assesses regularly the measures high-grade material.
downgrades which significantly to mitigate these risks and limit the The current status of the principal risks impacted on the Companys share likelihood of incidents.
affecting Centamin and its operational price.
The principal risk in achieving The Groups risks may change over and exploration activities, together production estimates was elevated to time, as will the Groups risk appetite, with the measures to mitigate risk, are high until the operation demonstrates as the external environment changes detailed in the section principal risks.
a return to steady state production.
and as operations are expanded into The oversight included ongoing The Directors confirm that a robust new geographical areas.
The risk detailed evaluation of the technical assessment of the principal risks management and review process services capability onsite and impacting the Company has been requires regular monitoring of the personnel requirements.
At a financial undertaken which identified strategic Groups existing risks and the level, the significant change in share and operational risks at a corporate identification of any new and price triggered a full impairment test level and principal risks impacting our emerging risks, including financial and details and related assumptions are operations in Egypt and West Africa.
Ongoing set out in the financial statements in management of the adequacy of the section 1.1.
Further details of the level of mitigation is also important.
matters in connection with the The risk management framework operational challenges experienced provides a continuous reporting cycle in 2018 are set out in the CEO throughout the business, allowing the statement and operational review.
Board to re-assess and communicate the Companys approach to risk internally and externally.
RISK LIKELIHOOD AND IMPACT The Board considers the principal risks both Strategic High in terms of their relative likelihood to occur, impact a Single project dependency given the mitigating factors in place, and b Partner risk and relationship with EMRA c Jurisdictional taxation exposure a their relative impact, should an event j External materially impact on the business.
g e d Gold price The graph depicts managements priorities e Political risk Sukari d and of particular note is the greater f Political risk West Africa i h emphasis on delivering our production g Litigation estimates.
This elevated risk relates to the Operational b f reliability of the underground mining h Achieving exploration project success operation at Sukari to deliver both tonnes i Estimation of reserve and resource c j Failure to achieve production estimates and high-grade material.
Our social licence to operate remains a high Key priority and whilst appropriate mitigation is Priority in place, relations with our partner, EMRA, Low impact remain of significant importance and a Management priority Low likelihood High likelihood priority of management.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued Principal risk Trend Nature of risk Mitigation Company objective strategy Risk appetite The Sukari Gold Mine currently constitutes Centamins main mineral resource and sole Sukari Gold Mine: the project at Sukari has At Sukari, the process plant has been Risk appetite is at an acceptable level, with STRATEGIC RISK N mineral reserve and near term production and revenue.
The resources in Burkina Faso and two distinct ore sources open pit and designed with sufficient resilience and appropriate levels of mitigation in place to Loss of revenue due Cte dIvoire are not currently of a sufficient size to convert into a reserve.
underground, the processing plant has two redundancies within the operating cycle.
reduce the likelihood of significant loss of separate flotation circuits and two separate revenue due to single project dependency.
to single project Until further production growth beyond Sukari is identified, the potential impact remains The exploration projects across the business power stations.
Whilst one project, the nature high and safeguarding the project is paramount to the Company.
provide a well-balanced project pipeline, with dependency of the design of the plant provides adequate potential to add incremental shareholder mitigation and reduces the relative likelihood value by increasing production across the Owner of dependence compared to a single layer Group.
The regional exploration of the Executive: CEO plant design.
The second circuit of the licence portfolio in Burkina Faso and process plant has been fully operational for Cte dIvoire continues.
Link to strategy over two years, which shows the resilience of the project.
In addition, the plant is fed by both the open pit and underground operation, providing high and lower-grade ore to the processing plant.
Operational activity and production is expected to continue at above nameplate capacity.
Other mitigating factors, outside the single project at Sukari, include the continued focus on longer term growth and expansion through exploration and acquisition targets both inside and outside of Egypt.
Whilst Centamin retains control over the project, the holding company, SGM, is jointly Maintaining relations: with the onset of A key objective of the Company is to maintain Risk appetite is at an acceptable level, with STRATEGIC RISK N owned by the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, PGM and EMRA with equal board profit sharing with EMRA last year, managing our social licence to operate.
This is achieved appropriate levels of mitigation in place.
Sukari Gold Mine representation from both parties.
The board of SGM operates by way of simple majority.
timing and quantum of payments, as well as through co-operation, regular meetings and Should a dispute arise which cannot otherwise be amicably resolved, arbitration or other applying and interpreting certain provisions correspondence with EMRA, as well as relationship with our proceedings may need to be employed.
of the Concession Agreement, is important in making sure that the terms and conditions of partners EMRA maintaining a good relationship with EMRA.
the Concession Agreement governing the The successful management of the Sukari Gold Mine is in part dependent on maintaining a Future expenditure and recovery of qualifying mine are fully complied with.
good working relationship with EMRA.
The Group has regular meetings with officials from Owner capital expenditure will also need to be EMRA and invests time in liaising with relevant ministry and other governmental Executive: Chairman, CEO, CFO managed, to be appropriately cost recovered representatives.
Operational: GM by the Company.
Link to strategy The Groups corporate structure includes operational activity in Egypt and West Africa held Tax exposure: the Group engages tax To minimise the complexity of the corporate Simplification of the structure is ongoing: STRATEGIC RISK N through holding companies in Australia and the United Kingdom.
Exposure to changing advisers to provide local advice at an structures ensuring tax neutrality within the however, the mitigation in place is at an Jurisdictional cross jurisdictional tax legislation could have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to operational level as well as corporate and holding group entities.
acceptable level and therefore operating repatriate revenues.
structuring advice at a corporate level.
within the parametres of our current taxation exposure The Company has developed a global tax risk appetite.
strategy to take account of the required Owner regulations relevant to Centamin.
Executive: CEO, CFO The Companys strategy is to ensure taxes are paid at an operational level and tax leakage is Link to strategy reduced through the holding structure.
Key: Asset quality Stakeholder returns Sustainability Financial flexibility Active growth pipeline 42 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT I Improved N Neutral H High Principal risk Trend Nature of risk Mitigation Company objective strategy Risk appetite The Sukari Gold Mine currently constitutes Centamins main mineral resource and sole Sukari Gold Mine: the project at Sukari has At Sukari, the process plant has been Risk appetite is at an acceptable level, with STRATEGIC RISK N mineral reserve and near term production and revenue.
within the parameters of our current taxation exposure The Company has developed a global tax risk appetite.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 43 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued Principal risk Trend Nature of risk Mitigation Company objective strategy Risk appetite The extent of the Companys financial performance is due in part to the price of gold, which The Group is 100% exposed to the gold The Company does not currently hedge The strategy is aligned with the risk appetite EXTERNAL RISK N the Company has no influence over.
Revenues from gold sales are in US dollars and price: however, the cash costs of the Sukari against the price of gold or exposure of the Company.
Gold price Centamin has exposure to costs in other currencies including Egyptian pounds, Australian Gold Mine remain low compared with the to currencies.
Owner Centamin manages its exposure to gold price by keeping operating costs as low Executive: CEO, CFO as possible.
Link to strategy The Companys operational activities are primarily in Egypt, a country that has been subject The Concession Agreement with EMRA and Maintain a detailed understanding of the The Company operates within acceptable EXTERNAL RISK N to civil and military disturbance.
Future political and economic conditions in Egypt could the Egyptian government was declared into political environment in which we operate as limits and the operation has continued to Political risk Sukari change with future governments adopting different policies that may impact the Egyptian Law no.
222 of 1994, which further well as a constructive relationship with be unaffected despite a number of major development and ownership of mineral resources.
Policy changes and licensing may also protects the Companys licence rights and government.
The Company undertakes to political events occurring in Egypt.
Owner impact the use of explosives, tenure of mineral concessions, taxation, royalties, exchange sets the applicable tax regime for a number abide by the spirit and letter of the The Company supports Egypts Executive: Chairman, CEO rates, environmental protection, labour relations, repatriation of income and capital.
This law received full parliamentary Concession Agreement as well as local laws development of a modern mining code.
Changes may also impact the ability to import key supplies and export gold.
approval as required by Egyptian law.
Operational: GM Egyptian The potential for serious impact should be balanced against the Egyptian governments operations support of Centamins investment and contribution to both revenue and development of the mining industry.
New laws have been introduced to protect and therefore encourage Link to strategy foreign investment, which is a positive step for the country.
32 has been confirmed by Parliament, although it remains subject to a challenge in the Supreme Court.
The Company operates in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
There are no assurances that Policies have developed over many years to Maintain relationships with all key The Company operates within EXTERNAL RISK N future political and economic conditions in these countries will not result in the encourage foreign investment and the stakeholders, including regional acceptable limits.
Political risk governments adopting different policies in respect to foreign development and development of mining operations, which governments, landowners and local chiefs.
ownership of exploration and exploitation licences.
continues to be the focus of governments in The Company meets its environmental and West Africa these regions.
Centamin actively monitors operational commitments set out in the legal and political developments, engaging in permits grants and local laws regulations.
Owner dialogue with relevant government and legal Executive: CEO policymakers to discuss all key legal and Operational: GM, Group regulatory developments.
Exploration Manager Link to strategy Centamins finances, and its ability to operate in Egypt, may be severely adversely affected In order to mitigate this risk Centamin has a To minimise exposure to litigation and reduce The Company is operating within its risk EXTERNAL RISK N by current and any future litigation proceedings and it is possible that further litigation taken appropriate legal advice and continues the impact of actions by complying with all appetite parametres and the mitigation in Litigation could be initiated against Centamin at any time.
Centamin is currently involved in litigation actively to pursue its legal rights with respect relevant laws and regulations and to defend place is at an acceptable level.
that relates both to a the validity of its exploitation lease at Sukari and b the price at which to its existing cases its legal advisers believe and or bring any actions necessary to protect Owner it can purchase Diesel Fuel Oil.
that Centamin will ultimately be successful in the Companys assets, rights and reputation.
Executive: Chairman, both of these cases : and b actively monitors CEO and CFO activity in both court and local media for signs of any legislative or similar developments that may threaten its Link to strategy operations, finances or prospects.
The potential for serious impact should be balanced against Centamins adherence to local laws and agreements: the Egyptian governments support of Centamins investment: Law no.
32 of 2014 that should protect Centamin against litigation by third parties: and the fact that Egypt and Australia PGMs place of incorporation have in place a bilateral investment treaty.
44 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT I Improved N Neutral H High Principal risk Trend Nature of risk Mitigation Company objective strategy Risk appetite The extent of the Companys financial performance is due in part to the price of gold, which The Group is 100% exposed to the gold The Company does not currently hedge The strategy is aligned with the risk appetite EXTERNAL RISK N the Company has no influence over.
Exploration Manager Link to strategy Centamins finances, and its ability to operate in Egypt, may be severely adversely affected In order to mitigate this risk Centamin has a To minimise exposure to litigation and reduce The Company is operating within its risk EXTERNAL RISK N by current and any future litigation proceedings and it is possible that further litigation taken appropriate legal advice and continues the impact of actions by complying with all appetite parameters and the mitigation in Litigation could be initiated against Centamin at any time.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 45 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued Principal risk Trend Nature of risk Mitigation Company objective strategy Risk appetite Time and costs of brownfields exploration activity are recognised as exploration and The exploration for precious metal may not To ensure a progressive pipeline of The Company operates its exploration OPERATIONAL RISK N evaluation assets E&E assets on the statement of financial position.
E&E assets be successful and is highly speculative in greenfield and advance-stage exploration programmes within acceptable risk Failure to achieve continue to be carried on the balance sheet where there is ongoing planned activity nature.
Before undertaking any exploration projects to serve the next stage of growth appetite parametres.
and the right of tenure is current.
projects, a full risk assessment in undertaken for the Company.
exploration covering country risk, industry risks as well as There can be no guarantee that an exploration project progresses to an economic resource Ensure systematic exploration programmes development success a detailed technical review of the underlying and therefore there remains a risk that E&E assets are partially or fully impaired during a are carried out with costs attributed to geological data available.
Management financial period where either a decision is made to discontinue a project or no further licence areas and prospects so that they can Owner implements systematic drilling programmes activity is scheduled.
Executive: CEO, CFO across its exploration projects, with costs Operational: GM, Group aggregated appropriately to licence areas Exploration Manager and prospects.
Link to strategy Mineral resource and reserve figures are prepared by Centamin personnel and reviewed by Management has implemented processes to To achieve reliable and consistent production, The Company operates within acceptable OPERATIONAL RISK N externally appointed independent geologists.
By their nature, mineral resources and continuously monitor and evaluate the current whilst optimising the potential of the risk appetite parametres.
Reserve and resource reserves are estimates based on a range of assumptions, including geological, life of the Sukari Gold Mine, mine plans and operation.
The Company provides timely metallurgical, technical and economic factors.
Other variables include expected costs, production targets.
The most recent and accurate information to the market on estimate inflation rates, gold price and production outputs.
There can be no guarantee that the technical report was completed in Form production levels and forecasts.
anticipated tonnages or grades expected by Centamin will be achieved both from the 43-101 dated 23 October 2015 and is Owner underground operation or open pit.
The latest Executive: CEO updated reserve and resource statement for Operational: GM, Group Sukari was announced on 25 February 2019.
Exploration Manager Preliminary resource statements have been provided for Doropo and the ABC Project in Link to strategy Cte dIvoire as well as Konkera in Burkina Faso.
Centamin prepares annual estimates for future gold production from the Sukari Gold Mine.
The realisation of production estimates are To achieve reliable and consistent production, The Company operates within acceptable OPERATIONAL RISK H There can be no assurance that Centamin will achieve its production estimates and such dependent on, amongst other things: the whilst optimising the potential of the risk appetite parametres.
Failure to achieve failure could have a material and adverse effect on Centamins future cash flows, accuracy of mineral reserve and resource operation.
The Company provides timely and profitability, results of operations and financial condition.
It should be specifically noted that estimates: the accuracy of assumptions accurate information to the market on production estimates the potential quantity and grade from the Sukari underground mine is conceptual in nature, regarding ore grades and recovery rates: production levels and forecasts.
that there has been insufficient exploration to define a mineral resource and that it is the ore tonnes and grade mined from the Owner uncertain if further exploration will result in the target being delineated as a mineral underground operation which are outside Executive: CEO resource.
the current reserve base: ground conditions: Operational: GM skilled and motivated labour force: processing capacity and maintenance Link to strategy policies: and logistics for consumables and parts.
In 2018 there were a number of production challenges resulting in two downgrades which had a significant impact on the share price.
Steps have been taken to further mitigate and improve on estimating guidance and an evaluation of the systems and controls, particularly of mine planning, grades and assesses is underway.
Key: Asset quality Stakeholder returns Sustainability Financial flexibility Active growth pipeline 46 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT I Improved N Neutral H High Principal risk Trend Nature of risk Mitigation Company objective strategy Risk appetite Time and costs of brownfields exploration activity are recognised as exploration and The exploration for precious metal may not To ensure a progressive pipeline of The Company operates its exploration OPERATIONAL RISK N evaluation assets E&E assets on the statement of financial position.
Before undertaking any exploration projects to serve the next stage of growth appetite parameters.
By their nature, mineral resources and continuously monitor and evaluate the current whilst optimising the potential of the risk appetite parameters.
The realisation of production estimates are To achieve reliable and consistent production, The Company operates within acceptable OPERATIONAL RISK H There can be no assurance that Centamin will achieve its production estimates and such dependent on, amongst other things: the whilst optimising the potential of the risk appetite parameters.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 47 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued Viability statement The operation at Sukari has a low cost The budget process, which pulls per ounce of production compared heavily on the R&R data, includes key In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of with other operating mines, which assumptions related directly to our the 2016 UK Corporate Governance contributes to the Companys longer significant risks, our strategy and risk Code the 2016 Code, the Directors term viability.
appetite which are summarised below: have assessed the Companys prospects over the longer term, Integral to the long term viability gold price assumptions: addressing a period of five years.
of the Company is the Companys management time and focus is A key part of the Directors resource and reserves R&R and applied to ensure a low-cost assessment was the budget and details of Sukaris R&R can be found operation, which helps Sukari forecast carried out in January 2019 on the Companys website.
The R&R remain profitable, even in a which reviewed the longer term statements are supported by technical relatively low gold price viability of the Company.
The review reports which are developed in environment.
The strategic decision assessed the Companys position and consultation with external experts to remain unhedged means the progress against our strategic pillars of and combine geological, metallurgical Company benefits fully in a strong sustainability, asset quality, financial and economic data.
Sukaris long term gold price environment.
In a weaker flexibility, stakeholder returns and an sustainability was reconfirmed by gold price environment, the active growth pipeline.
The strategic the R&R update announced on commitment to cost control helps focus areas are set out on page 22.
In 25 February 2019 which ensure business continuity: addition, the Company considered the demonstrated the ability to replace commodity assumptions: based on potential impact on its principal risks, high-grade underground reserves and forecast prices, fuel represents and also considered how its appetite the open pit has a mine life in excess approximately 20% of our for risk might affect the assessment.
operational costs and is therefore a The review includes the Companys significant commodity assumption Although a longer time horizon is strategic objectives, business model in both the budget process and considered for evaluation of risks and its prospects over the coming five development of the R&R.
This can impacting the Company, the years to December 2023. therefore materially affect the cost assessment of viability is made during The review, which included the base of the business: the budget process which covers a presentation and approval of the production assumptions: Sukari is a five-year period and detailed budget, received final Board approval 24-hour-a-day, seven-days-a-week assessment of financial and on 25 February 2019.
The financial operation with an estimated plant operational forecasts.
forecasts used in the review included nameplate throughput capacity of key assumptions about gold price, 12Mtpa, a level which Sukari often future production levels, operating exceeds.
The process plant and capital costs, cash flows and the recovery rates are targeting 89% in Groups balance sheet and 2019.
Maintaining and improving shareholder returns.
The operational productivity is fundamental to our forecasts included mining and process business and long term strategy: plant throughput levels, grades and and metallurgical recovery rates.
social licence to operate: relations with our partners, EMRA, remain strong and this relationship continues to strengthen with the onset of profit sharing.
Government relations in West Africa will also be prioritised as we undertake more detailed feasibility studies.
48 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT Although the business does prepare The investor presentation, together The review undertaken to determine plans over a longer time horizon, with other presentations, can be the long term viability did not identify notably in the Sukari life of mine viewed on the Companys website, any new or emerging risks that have models, the Company chose five which contains the latest operational not already been disclosed under years for its viability statement and and financial information.
principal risks nor have any carried out the review in additional mitigation measures been The management team also considers February 2019 based on this time implemented, other than in the strategic, operational and compliance horizon.
The five year time horizon ordinary course of business.
risks throughout the year and reflects the period of the review produces the following reports and On the basis of all the procedures which includes the preparation of documents for the Board and Audit outlined above, the Directors the budget document which includes and Risk Committee to review to confirmed on the date of this report operational and financial forecasts that support it in making the formal that they have a reasonable have been prepared over a five year viability statement: expectation that the Company will period to 31 December 2023. be able to continue in operation and operational risk assessment register In preparing budgetary information meet its liabilities as they fall due and corporate risk matrix: and forecasts, the Group considers over the five year period of their annual impairment review: the principal risks and wider corporate assessment.
going concern review: and operational risks.
Of the principal life of mine model: risks identified, those with the most business continuity planning: and potential to impact negatively upon the Companys ongoing viability monthly and annual budgets.
include the gold price, the relationship The assessment of viability over a with its partner, political risk and the period of five years to 2023 and the ongoing litigation in Egypt.
material inputs and assumptions A sensitivity analysis was carried out remain consistent with the conclusions on the key inputs to the financial and set out in the viability statement in the operational forecasts, including 2017 annual report.
However, notably, sensitivity analysis on the average the updated reserve and resource gold price.
The review also considered statement at 30 June 2018 the cost in developing the prospects announced on 25 February 2019 in West Africa, noting that there are supports the longevity of the open pit sufficient cash resources to cover the operation and upside potential of the early stage development.
The review underground operation at Sukari see considered timing and possible future R&R statements in the operational capital expenditure whilst ensuring report.
The relationship with our the dividend policy and ongoing partners, EMRA, remains strong with commitments could be met.
both parties enjoying profit sharing in line with the Concession Agreement throughout the year.
The principal risks are set out on pages 42 to 47 and all principal risks have been concluded by the Board to be within acceptable limits, taking account of the associated mitigation that is in place.
