CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and risk report I am pleased to present this report covering the activities of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2018.
Mark Arnesen Chairman of the Audit Risk Committee Dear shareholders This report is presented in accordance In addition to the scheduled quarterly with the Companys UK and Canadian meetings, the Audit and Risk I am pleased to present this report listing rules.
In accordance with the Committee also meet, by way of covering the activities of the Audit and Ontario Securities Commission, all conference calls, at least once a Risk Committee during 2018. members of the Audit and Risk quarter to review the draft quarterly The report also summarises the work Committee are considered financially financial information and interim of the external auditor and our literate pursuant to section 1.5 of the MD&A a requirement of the Toronto assessment of its effectiveness, the Multilateral Instrument 52-110 and in Stock Exchange.
As at 1 January 2019 activities and assurances given by the compliance with the Code, I am the Centamin plc is a designated foreign internal auditor and the member with the required relevant issuer within the meaning of the responsibilities of the Audit and Risk financial experience as a professionally National Instrument 71-102 Committee in line with the 2016 Code.
Continuous Disclosure and Other As a committee reporting to the Exemptions Relating to Foreign Committee meetings are regularly Board, the Audit and Risk Committee Issuers and is subject to the foreign attended, by invitation, by the considers in detail the suitability of the regulatory requirements of the Chairman, CEO and CFO along with Companys risk management and London Stock Exchange.
As such, the Company Secretary.
PwC is also internal control systems.
Centamin plc is exempt from certain invited to attend relevant committee requirements otherwise imposed on Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
Separate discussions reporting issuers in Canada.
This composition and effectiveness outside of formal committee meetings status will mean that the preparation are regularly held between the The Audit and Risk Committee has of quarterly financial statements and external audit partner, the Audit and three independent Non-Executive MD&A will not be required in 2019.
Risk Committee Chairman and the Directors: Mark Bankes, Edward Quarterly preliminary costs and CFO.
The Audit and Risk Committee Haslam and me as Chairman.
All production will, however, be published Chairman also meets with the members attended all six scheduled following each quarter end.
Biographies of the members of all committees can be found on pages 94 and 95.
108 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A summary of the Audit and Risk Committees responsibilities for the main activities during 2018 are set out below: TOPICS COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 External auditor Reviewing and approving the external auditors terms of engagement plan, scope of work, fees, the findings arising from all external audit work and external auditor performance.
Internal audit Approval of the scope of the internal audit function and review of work carried out in 2018.
Responding to regulators Responding to requests from regulatory bodies: see note below on the Audit and Risk Committees involvement in responding to the FRCs periodic review.
Financial reporting Making recommendations to the Board for the approval of the quarterly, half-year and annual results.
Risk reporting Review and monitoring of the risk management processes, assessment of principal and emerging risks and reporting of risks throughout the business.
Internal controls Review of the internal control environment, to include controls over financial reporting and the use of software, operational reports and the impact on budgeting and forecasting.
Accounting matters Review of management papers and challenging the proposals relating to areas of significant judgments and judgments and estimates.
Accounting for Review and approval of the change in accounting policy on capitalisation of greenfield exploration, the costs of transactions and policy which are now expensed in the year.
review Review of IFRS 16 relating to leases and the impact on material contracts.
Review and classification of low grade stockpiles in accordance with IAS 2.
Dividends Ensuring the dividend proposals are in line with the Group policy and making recommendations to the Board.
IT systems Review of recommendations relating to the IT infrastructure, IT systems development and controls and software upgrades.
Corporate Governance Review of the 2018 Code and best practice guidelines impacting the Audit and Risk Committee in 2019.
Code Non-financial reporting Please see the financial review and non-financial reporting in the sustainability report, which is published separately.
During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee carried out an evaluation of its own performance.
The assessment considered the activities during the year.
The Audit and Risk Committee also considered its composition and the competency, availability and contribution of its members and did not recommend any further changes to the Board.
The Board also conducted an evaluation of the Audit and Risk Committee, its composition, experience and activities during the year and there were no proposed changes during 2018.
During the evaluation, the Audit and Risk Committee and Board were mindful that each of the three members had served for eight years.
The nomination report sets out details of the Boards recruitment process that is underway for progressive refreshment of the Board and its committees.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 109 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and risk report continued Significant issues considered during the year by the Audit and Risk Committee The following significant issues were considered during the year full details and analysis are set out in note 1 to the financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT TOPIC ISSUE SUMMARY OF THE SIGNIFICANT ISSUE KEY ACTION POINTS FRC Review Regulatory In 2017 the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC Committee actions review commenced a review of our 2017 annual report which The Audit and Risk Committee contributed was concluded in 2018.
In the review the FRC were to the management position papers and seeking clarification on three main areas: i significant technical papers.
PwC also provided input judgments relating to the control of SGM: ii the into the papers.
sensitivity analysis of estimates and disclosures: and Further details of PwCs involvement are iii disclosure of alternative performance measures set out below.
APMs relating to free cash flow.
Certain The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed, recommendations from the review were incorporated contributed towards and approved the into the 2017 annual report and 2018 half-year amended disclosures in the 2018 financial accounts, including the sensitivity analysis of estimates statements as prepared by management after and disclosure of APMs relating to free cash flow.
The Audit and Risk During 2018 the main area of review related to Committee Chairman attended the meetings i the accounting treatment of SGM based on control: with the FRC.
and ii the treatment and disclosure of the EMRA profit Significant judgments and estimates regarding share arrangement and its compliance with IFRS.
control and treatment have been disclosed in a single section of the annual report.
Production Critical Production forecasts were re-guided during the year Committee actions re-forecast judgments impacting the share price in May and October.
The During the year, enhanced reporting was and and estimates reasons for this have been addressed elsewhere in the requested by the Audit and Risk Committee operational annual report.
The risk of not achieving production to understand the impact on production and information forecasts in the short term results in, among others: revised forecasting.
The Audit and Risk flows Committee considered the information flows significant impacts on the profitability of the Group: between the Groups operations and the reduced profit share and dividends to shareholders: financial reporting.
The Audit and Risk and Committee also considered the inputs during the subsequent significant devaluation of the share the annual budget process and the ongoing price which consequently triggered an impairment reconciliation, comparing actual performance assessment of the Group assets.
against budget performance of both financial and operational data.
Committee actions Exploration The change in accounting policy regarding the and treatment of costs related to exploration and The Audit and Risk Committee considered evaluation evaluation of mineral resources under IFRS 6, made in the application of IFRS 6, the impact on the of mineral the interim financial statements and applied financial statements and related metrics, resources retrospectively to the earliest prior period: the definition of Greenfield and Brownfield under IFRS 6 exploration and the reasons for the change previously the policy was to capitalise all in the accounting policy.
IAS 1 was also exploration expenditure without a distinction considered relating to the presentation of between Greenfield and Brownfield exploration financial information to the user financial expenditure: reports.
this policy has been changed with all Greenfield exploration costs expensed as they are incurred The Audit and Risk Committee concluded that whilst Brownfield exploration costs will continue to due to the increased risk, lower likelihood of be capitalised economic return to shareholders and lengthy timescales involved with greenfield exploration, expensing greenfield exploration was appropriate.
Shareholders and analysts place value on exploration projects at a later stage of exploration development.
110 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SIGNIFICANT TOPIC ISSUE SUMMARY OF THE SIGNIFICANT ISSUE KEY ACTION POINTS Run of mine Accounting for Mine stockpiles inventory has been split between Committee actions ROM transactions current and non-current assets based on the expected The Audit and Risk Committee considered stockpiles drawdown on the stockpile by the processing plant: IAS 2, the valuation and categorisation of inventories, the mine plan over the medium the volume of ore extracted in the year has far term to assess the timing to process the low exceeded the capacity of the processing plant grade ore stockpiles and impairment testing causing the stockpiles to increase significantly in of the material.
The grade of the stock piles size and value: and was considered and the use of the low grade based on mining and processing forecasts these material by the processing plant to optimise stockpiles will not be consumed within the next production.
twelve months and as such have now been The Audit and Risk Committee concluded that classified between current and non-current assets the split in stockpile inventory between and valued accordingly.
current and non-current assets in the financial statements reflected the usage of the stockpiles.
Any impairment of the stockpile was appropriately assessed at 31 December 2018 and no impairment was required.
In line with the updated mineral reserves estimate for Sukari at 30 June 2018, the mine cut-off grade for the surface stockpiles has been changed from 0.3 to 0.4 grams per tonne with amounts under 0.4g t having been expensed.
Accounting Accounting for Adoption of the following new and revised accounting Committee actions standards transactions policies: The Audit and Risk Committee considered the new and revised policies during the year with IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers no significant impact to the annual results.
has been applied since 1 January 2018: and IFRS 9 Financial instruments has been applied IFRS 16 will be adopted from 1 January 2019 since 1 January 2018. in accordance with the standard.
Accounting Accounting for New standards, amendments and interpretations not standards transactions yet adopted: IFRS 16 Leases has been assessed by management, the impact of which has been disclosed.
Committee actions Impairment Accounting for Management concluded, in accordance with the of assets transactions requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of assets and The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the other than IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral papers presented by management in respect financial resources that the devaluation of the share price of the to IAS 36 and IFRS 6 and were in agreement assets Company was a trigger for an impairment assessment with managements conclusion that no for the Companys exploration and evaluation assets.
The exploration strategy was also considered for Sukari, The assessment compared the recoverable amount of Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
the individual Exploration and Evaluation Asset Cash Generating Units E&E CGU with their carrying value The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed as for the year ended 31 December 2018. part of the assessment for potential impairment at Sukari, the updated mine plan, latest reserve and resource update and production profile for 2019.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 111 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and risk report continued Significant issues considered during the year by the Audit and Risk Committee continued SIGNIFICANT TOPIC ISSUE SUMMARY OF THE SIGNIFICANT ISSUE KEY ACTION POINTS Accounting Going concern The Directors performed an assessment of the entitys ability to continue as a going concern at the end basis of and longer of each reporting period.
The period of the assessment covered at least twelve months from the date of preparation term viability signing the financial statements.
In addition to the twelve month going concern consideration, the Directors assessed the Companys prospects over the longer term, specifically addressing a period of five years as part of the overall viability statement.
The period of five years was considered appropriate as this reflected the preparation period for a detailed budget.
Details of the viability statement and review assessment can be found in the strategic report on pages 48 and 49.
Under guidelines set out by the FRC, the directors of UK listed companies are required to consider whether the going concern basis is the appropriate basis of preparation of financial statements.
Based on a detailed cash flow forecast prepared by management, in which key assumptions on which cash flow forecast is based, the Directors considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
Key assumptions underpinning this forecast include: the successful outcome of ongoing litigation as discussed in note 5.1 to the financial statements: the latest life of mine plans: reserve and resource update: 2019 2023 forecast gold production: estimated gold price: and variable and fixed cost assumptions.
These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations.
Fair, balanced and The Audit and Risk Committee was The Audit and Risk Committee, understandable conscious, whilst reviewing all in reviewing the annual report, also aspects of the annual report, of the noted the need for clear and concise The Audit and Risk Committee was production issues during the year.
The members of the Audit satisfied that the controls over the Fair representation was important to and Risk Committee have worked with accuracy and consistency of the the members of the Audit and Risk management to demonstrate, through information in the 2018 annual report Committee, ensuring that sufficient carefully structured tables, graphs and were sufficiently robust.
The Audit and emphasis was made on the matters images, the linkages between risk, Risk Committee reviewed the control which led to the production the Companys strategic aims and the environment and is in receipt of downgrades, the financial impact structure for rewarding performance.
monthly, quarterly and annual financial on the Company and the investor and budgetary information.
The Audit The Audit and Risk Committee experience resulting from these and Risk Committee is also involved in recommended and, with agreement challenges.
the review of all key accounting of the Board, concluded that the policies and matters requiring The Audit and Risk Committee annual report was fair, balanced and judgment and estimation.
was also mindful of the balance in understandable having considered reporting of non-financial the activity of the Company during The Audit and Risk Committee has, performance measures such as the period and that users of the at the request of the Board, also exploration progress across the annual report would be able to considered whether the annual report Groups operations.
The Audit and understand our position, strategy, is fair, balanced and understandable.
Risk Committee considered the business model and overall In arriving at that decision, the Audit relative emphasis on the activity performance, which were presented and Risk Committee has been across West Africa and in Egypt, consistently throughout the involved in reviewing, at an early ensuring that the success in resource annual report.
stage, the content of both the growth was matched with the relative financial statements and the strategic cost in delivering the exploration report including the business model, programmes.
The updated reserve the performance review and statements set out in the strategic governance reporting throughout report were also an area of focus, the report including the ensuring that reserve growth, governance report.
replacement and depletion were given equal weighting.
112 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE External auditor Through benchmarking and reviewing PwC Egypt trends in reporting and industry During 2018, the Companys external PwC has a significant presence in leading disclosure the Company auditor,  LLP Egypt and the Audit and Risk hopes to continue to evolve and PwC presented their detailed audit Committee welcomed the increased develop a high standard of reporting plan and final audit findings and use of the Alexandria-based auditor to for its shareholders.
recommendations to the Audit and carry out field work and substantive Risk Committee.
The Audit and Risk testing during the audit.
The External auditor effectiveness Committee agreed with the audit understanding gained through the The Audit and Risk Committee approach at the planning stage and audit of the Companys Egyptian undertook a review of the agreed with the materiality thresholds, subsidiary, SGM, helped improve the effectiveness of the external auditor identification of the key risk areas and efficiency of the Group and subsidiary at the half-year and annual statutory significant judgments and estimates.
Of particular note is the use of audit.
This review compared the senior personnel who are fluent in original audit plan against the delivery ARA evaluation and Arabic and English, allowing good of the audit.
The Audit and Risk benchmarking communication channels to exist Committee also reviewed the The management team met with PwC between the auditor and the accounts effectiveness of the audit by to critically assess the 2017 annual teams at Sukari and Alexandria.
considering the efficiency and use report, discuss ways to improve the of resources and the delivery and Substantive testing and report for shareholders.
The session relevance of the reporting.
technology provided useful insight into the following: The Company strives towards Audit partner efficiency, which can in part be strategic report The Audit and Risk Committee is achieved through advancements in pleased with the smooth handover articulating the Groups purpose IT systems and technology.
to the new audit partner, Jonathan and mission statement: The accounting systems and Lambert, who replaced Richard concise reporting throughout improvements in software at Sukari Spilsbury following the 2017 audit.
the annual report: need to keep pace with the growing non-financial reporting: reliance by audit firms on IT systems.
FRC review stakeholder engagement and The audit of the Group remains largely The Audit and Risk Committee and section 172 directors duties: substantive and the Audit and Risk management worked closely with Committee was pleased with the way linkages for KPIs and targets: PwCs technical team to prepare the computer aided audit tools were used explaining risks and required position papers.
Further work on opportunities: and provided support in challenging the part of the accounts team will managements technical arguments: setting clear sustainable goals.
need to be done in the future to allow understanding and applying the legal governance report reliance on controls in order to reduce framework to the standards: and disclosures within the the level of substantive audit articulating the way in which the remuneration report: procedures, but at present, operation is managed and controlled.
governance reform and substantive procedures provide the Guidance was also provided on the reporting: and most effective audit approach for an presentation of the financial linkages between governance, operation of this size.
statements, considering the possible business and the strategy.
scenarios and ensuring the outcome As part of the evaluation, the Audit financial statements best served the users of the financial and Risk Committee completed a balance across the ARA as a statements.
The Audit and Risk questionnaire which also took into whole: Committee was pleased with the account the views of the senior outcome of the FRC review and understanding of the key members of the finance team, attribute the success to the judgments and estimates: and including the CFO.
Following the management team and the work of explanation of key accounting evaluation process, any relevant the Audit and Risk Committee.
policies and application to the findings were relayed to the audit Group.
partner and, where applicable, actions were incorporated into the audit plan.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 113 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and risk report continued External auditor effectiveness continued Substantive testing and technology continued AUDIT AREA OBSERVATIONS BY THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE Audit planning The planning documents had sufficient detail and were presented in a timely manner.
The audit plan was adhered to by the auditor and the audit opinion released as scheduled on 1 March 2019.
Leadership and The Committee notes the experience of the team in the mining and extractive sector and worked well with the finance communication team providing a good level of challenge to the accounts team as well as guidance where needed.
Assessment of There were no areas that conflicted PwCs independence.
independence Audit costs The Audit and Risk Committee noted that additional time and resource were allocated to deal with the accounting matters impacted by the production challenges during the year and the technical support in preparing responses to the FRC review.
The Audit and Risk Committee was encouraged by the way the auditor shared information across the jurisdictions.
The combined and joined-up nature of the audit team as well as the use of a local Egyptian auditor in-country was also welcomed.
The fees year on year have remained in line with expectations.
External auditor There has been open communication Fees for audit services incurred during between the Audit and Risk the year amounted to US$543k: there So far as each current Director of the Committee and the audit partner were non-audit services carried out by Company is aware, the auditor has throughout the statutory audit and PwC during the year of US$167k.
Full had full access to all relevant management has also worked directly details are set out in note 6.5 to the information and the Audit and Risk with the audit team.
PwC has also had financial statements.
Our policy on Committee has answered any open access to the Board.
non-audit services and auditor questions raised by the auditor independence can be found on our allowing the auditor to carry out The audit team visits Sukari regularly website at www.
to carry out inventory testing as well investors corporate-governance.
as assessing controls and substantive The Audit and Risk Committee testing.
PwC also carry out audit work The Companys policy is to tender the recommends to the Board the at our administrative offices in Egypt external audit every ten years.
The last re-appointment of PwC as auditor and Jersey.
audit tender was undertaken in 2014 at the forthcoming annual general when PwC was appointed auditor.
PwC has expressed its Having carried out the evaluation, PwC have been auditor of the willingness to continue in office the Audit and Risk Committee is Company for five years.
satisfied that the audit engagement for the financial year ended 2018 was Auditor objectivity and Internal auditor both effective and added value to independence BDO LLP, the Groups externally the Group.
The Audit and Risk Committee appointed internal auditor, worked continues to monitor the auditors with the Audit and Risk Committee Non-audit fees objectivity and independence and is to agree an action plan for 2018 There was no significant non-audit satisfied that PwC and the Group have and 2019. work carried out by PwC during the appropriate policies and procedures year, with the majority of the tax As part of the assessment to identify in place to ensure that these advisory services continuing to be the required actions, the internal audit requirements are not compromised, provided by the Deloitte LLP tax team spent time with the Audit and as evidenced by the change in audit teams in the UK and Australia.
The Risk Committee and met with partner in 2018.
Groups policy for non-audit services management to identify their needs sets out the categories which the and carried out work onsite at Sukari.
external auditor will and will not be Summary findings of the audit needs allowed to provide to the Group and assessment were shared with the those engagements that need Audit and Risk Committee and formed pre-approval in line with the the basis of the action plan for Companys non-audit services policy.
114 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The audit areas, actions and findings are summarised in the table.
AREA AUDITED OBJECTIVE FINDINGS Anti-bribery and The objective of the review is to provide assurance on the The initial review was undertaken in late 2018 with corruption measures Centamin has in place to prevent bribery and recommendations in the following areas: corruption and ensure compliance with the relevant specific train the trainer tailored to ensure consistent Group and operational level legislation.
and regular training at an operational level: The work will consider whether implemented controls ensure additional support for those with government have been adequately designed to mitigate inherent risks touch points: and and whether these controls are operating effectively.
encouraging a culture of record keeping to capture all and any potential incidents or occurrences which can then be assessed.
Purchasing The objective of the audit is to assess the adequacy and The initial review was undertaken in early 2019 with effectiveness of the controls which are in place to mitigate recommendations to be shared with the Audit and Risk risks within the area of purchasing including tendering.
The following procedures were undertaken: Identification of high risk suppliers and more detailed review of policies and procedures when procuring analysis of the due diligence undertaken.
goods or services for Centamin: Advice on improvements to the manual which lacked testing and sampling of tendering and new suppliers guidance on due diligence methodology.
and verified whether the required procedures were Identification of potential overrides and sampling of followed: and supplier master file.
identification of the need for a good or service, Guidance on further tools to implement analysis of evaluation, due diligence, appropriate management ageing suppliers, reasons for cost savings, forecasting approval and achievement of value for money.
Working capital The objective of the review is to provide assurance on the The initial review was undertaken in early 2019 with management working capital management at Centamin and to review recommendations to be provided in Q2 2019. the recent exercise to improve the working capital ratio.
Specifically, BDO will assess whether implemented controls have been adequately designed to mitigate inherent risks and whether these controls are operating effectively and provide recommendations to improve the management of the working capital.
The Audit and Risk Committee controls and the implementation of improvement and in providing considers the effectiveness of the those recommendations is monitored practical steps, aiding management internal auditor by reviewing the and reported back.
The Audit and Risk to implement any changes.
Whilst actions against the original scoping Committee was encouraged by the comfortable with the assurances given document, any improvements in new team that had been chosen to during 2018, the Audit and Risk controls over systems or policies and deliver the internal audit in 2018, Committee noted that the scope the cost effectiveness of the actions which included an experienced team spanned a two year period and and assurance review.
The Audit and Risk therefore the work that was expected providing assurance over key areas Committee was comfortable that the to be completed in 2019 would allow identified in the scoping document, internal audit team had access to all the Audit and Risk Committee to make the Audit and Risk Committee required personnel and were given an informed assessment of the internal assesses the performance of the the best opportunity to carry out their auditors effectiveness.
internal auditor for areas of value add.
The Audit and In particular, where the audit review Risk Committee noted that success of process provides recommendations to the internal audit would be measured management to improve systems of both in identifying areas for Centamin plc Annual report 2018 115 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and risk report continued Internal auditor continued control environment, including specific Companys head office in Jersey, financial controls and procedures.
The where the Group financial controller The Audit and Risk Committee will review pulled heavily on the work of and Chief Financial Officer are based.
be working with BDO LLP and both the external and internal auditors The accounting information from the management to agree a scope of and the work of management to Groups operations is provided to the work for 2019.
Key topics include: enhance the policies and procedures head office where the ledgers are mine resource planning: and IT systems to improve the control consolidated.
Appropriate management oversight controls environment.
reconciliations and reviews are and overrides: performed at the level of the The Audit and Risk Committee month end accounting including operation and at the Groups head considered the information flows spreadsheet controls : office by way of the performance of between the Groups operations and data analytics Payroll and monthly, quarterly and annual the financial reporting.
Existing Purchasing including an evaluation reconciliations.
systems, capturing financial data of Egypts Article 40 Health Care remained sufficient, however the Audit Risk assessment Act : and Risk Committee reviewed further The Board has overall responsibility corporate governance reform and the finance teams oversight over for establishing a robust risk application of the 2018 Code: and operational data.
Consideration was management framework and risk reporting and effectiveness on given to the inputs during the annual assessing risk across the Group that strategic planning.
budget process and the ongoing allows for the assessment and reconciliation, comparing actual management of material strategic and The Audit and Risk Committee will performance against budget operational risks.
In addition, the monitor the internal auditors progress performance of both financial and Board is responsible for articulating this year and ensure they continue to operational data.
During the year, the Groups risk appetite against the have access to the required resources enhanced reporting was requested by principal risks.
and information to complete their the Board to understand the impact scope in 2019.
Full details of the risk management on production and revised and control environment are set out in The internal auditor will make an forecasting.
The enhanced reports the strategic report.
The risk assessment each year of any were needed to evaluate the impact management report concludes by significant changes to the risk profile on forecasting for the remainder of identifying the principal risks for the of the organisation and consider any the year following the production business and the Companys areas of focus for the provision of downgrades: the impact of changes to statements on risk appetite and internal audit services.
The Audit and the mine plan and scheduling: and the long term viability.
The purpose of the Risk Committee will ultimately be consequences of lower grade through risk management framework is to seeking an independent viewpoint the process plant.
The Audit and Risk understand the risks the Group faces and assurance over the internal control Committee challenged management and to manage them appropriately to environment from BDO LLP.
on the controls and level of enhance the Companys ability to reconciliation at an operational level.
Control environment improve its decision making process, Whilst satisfied that the reporting While the Board has overall deliver on its objectives and provided a base level of responsibility for ensuring the subsequently improve its performance understanding, further work was adequacy of internal controls, as a mining company.
required so that operational reports the Board has delegated certain could predict, with greater speed and The Audit and Risk Committee responsibilities to the Audit and Risk accuracy, potential changes to the monitors the risk management and Committee.
These include forecast grade, and the impact of internal control structure implemented responsibility over monitoring the those changes to the mine plan or by management.
It advises on effectiveness and design of policies scheduling.
The Audit and Risk significant changes to that structure so and internal control systems.
The key Committee aims to ensure that data as to obtain reasonable assurance that features of the control environment fed to management is robust and the Companys assets are safeguarded are to ensure compliance with laws, timely and allowing management and and that reliable financial records are regulations and other requirements the Board with their decision making.
The Audit and Risk relating to external reporting by the Committee assists in developing the Company of financial and Controls over financial reports risk environment, making suggestions non-financial information.
and financial statements on ways in which the business can The consolidated financial statements During the year, the Audit and Risk improve its internal reporting.
and annual report are prepared at the Committee reviewed the overall 116 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The assessment considered the concluded that there were adequate implementing internal audit principal risks and wider strategic, procedures, polices and controls in recommendation on controls over corporate, operational and place and had been adequately procurement, tendering and supply environmental risks.
The Audit and Risk chain management: reports were prepared for the Audit Committee noted that, at an scope the internal audit function to and Risk Committees review: operational level, improvements in ensure the tasks are aligned with internal controls relating to grade the business needs: and preparation of budgets, stress reconciliation and production develop a fresh reporting platform testing operational and financial forecasts which directly impacts by reviewing, bottom up, reporting inputs and variables: budgeting, forecasting and processes and ensuring reliable reporting of actuals versus budget, profitability of the Group needed and timely information is available variance analysis and changes to further review in 2019. to the Board to aid decision the mine plan or sequencing: making.
The Audit and Risk Committee and monthly and quarterly reporting of the Board are pleased to confirm that operational activity, including Employee engagement: the Company remains in compliance enhanced reporting on any enhanced train the trainer on with best practice guidelines and with significant operational and corporate policies including the 2016 Code and relevant Canadian corporate issues: anti-bribery and corruption and requirements.
control environment review and modern slavery.
recommendations for further Targets in 2019 Going concern and improvement: The Audit and Risk Committee long term viability review of the operational controls considered the action plan for 2019 The Directors considered it and reporting framework: and the key milestones for the year.
appropriate to continue to adopt the non-financial reporting indicators The areas of focus for 2019 include, going concern basis of accounting in including environmental indicators: but are not limited to, the following: preparing the financial statements.
scoping of internal audit work, The going concern statement is Strategic: access to site and key personnel: detailed in full in note 1.35 to the build and develop the finance external audit work culminating in financial statements.
The statements function in West Africa in the annual and half-yearly audit in relation to the Groups viability, anticipation of developing a mine report: over the longer term, are set out in in the region: quarterly risk reporting to include the risk management report on work on improving long term life of analysis of primary and secondary page 48 and 49. mine model and linkage with mine corporate and operational risks, plan at an operational level: and Conclusion mitigation, risk owners, strategic review of economic and regulatory As a result of its work during the year, planning as part of the risk review regimes where the Group operates the Audit and Risk Committee and site based leading indicators or may consider operating.
concluded that it has acted in for health and safety: and accordance with its terms of reference compliance and regulatory updates Finance: and has ensured the independence and related policy updates and continued focus on cost reduction and objectivity of the external auditor.
and working capital management A member of the Audit and Risk through improved inventory and The assessment identifies the risks Committee will be available at the mine management planning facing the business and we consider AGM along with the CFO to answer systems: the annual assessment to be suitably any questions in relation to this report.
ensuring appropriate cost robust, covering strategic and For and on behalf of the Audit and allocation across all resources and operational risks at a corporate level Risk Committee of Centamin plc.
business units and cost recovery and risks identified at our operations from operations: and in Egypt, Burkina Faso and Cte adoption of IFRS 16 Leases.
Having considered the risks in Mark Arnesen detail, the principal risks have been Chairman of the Audit and Risk Control environment: identified and are set out on pages Committee detailed finance review of 38 to 49.
1 March 2019 operational inputs into budget, The assessment carried out during the forecasting, life of mine models year, which also took note of the work and variance analysis carried out by the internal auditor, Centamin plc Annual report 2018 117
