Strategic Report Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Understanding those risks that impact We cant predict the future but our strategy and determining how we can empower better business much risk we would like to take performance by having the credibility, Decentralisation of energy systems, shifting power to the courage and confidence to raise consumer and increasing digitisation, presents both opportunities and risks.
Identifying and appropriately managing these risks the issues that really matter.
is critical to the successful delivery of our strategy.
Within our Carolyn Clarke System of Risk Management and Internal Control we assess Group Head of Internal Audit, Risk and Control risk in relation to the delivery of Group Priorities and determine the level of risk we are prepared to take: Strengthening our System of safety, compliance and conduct: Our appetite for taking risk Risk Management and Internal Control in this area is as low as reasonably practicable in relation to: Each business unit and Group function is responsible for ensuring the safety of our people, customers and communities: identifying and assessing its significant risks.
We consider both conducting our business operations in compliance with laws the potential impact to the Group and the likelihood of occurrence and regulations: protecting personal and business data about on an inherent and residual basis and aggregate these risks within our customers and employees: and managing our financial defined Principal Risk categories.
The Executive Committee then reporting risks: considers these perspectives alongside broader external and customer satisfaction and operational excellence: We have internal factors to create a Group-wide set of prioritised risks.
a moderate risk appetite to allow us to pursue innovative We categorise our risks as: opportunities.
We are driven to satisfy the changing needs Risk Requiring Standards RRS : Risk with negative impacts of our customers: that we control through Standards and Management Systems, cash flow growth and strategic momentum: We have a for example process safety or data security.
moderate to high risk appetite for seeking opportunities to Risk Requiring Judgement RRJ : Risk that we choose to take deliver cash flow growth and our target return on capital: to execute our business strategy, for example new products or cost efficiency and simplification: We have a low to moderate business improvement opportunities.
risk appetite for failing to implement and manage improvements External Risk: Risk that requires a focus on scenario and sustainably and in a rigorous and systematic way: and contingency planning with little or no ability to reduce likelihood, people and building capability: We accept a moderate level for example extreme weather or geopolitical turbulence.
of risk in finding ways to attract, develop and reward people with the diverse capabilities needed to deliver our ambitions.
We identify all severe, but plausible consequences of our risks, where the realisation is more than remote in likelihood.
These consequences are considered in our assessment of viability as described on page 51.
On an annual basis, we evaluate our System of Risk Management and Internal Control, learning from any control incidents that have arisen, to ensure we are mitigating risks in line with our risk appetite.
We are evolving our System of Risk Management and Internal Control to ensure it remains appropriate, particularly as we expand into new jurisdictions and develop our business priorities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Evaluating risks through our Enterprise Risk Framework Assess & Analyse Assess inherent impact and likelihood using the Centrica risk assessment matrix Identify risk type RRS, RRJ or External Risk and determine target risk rating Identify mitigating activity and key risk indicators and assess current risk exposure Design & Implement Controls Identify Design and implement Identify significant risks to controls and actions to achieving business unit mitigate the potential impact 2 and or function objectives and likelihood of risks 1 3 Our Enterprise Risk Framework is designed to enable us to identify, evaluate and mitigate our risks appropriately.
It comprises six steps: 6 4 Report, Evaluate & Improve Manage & Monitor 5 Report consolidated risk, Management of risks assurance and control and controls to deliver position to the Group Ethics, target risk level Risk, Assurance, Control Monitor through inspection, and Compliance Committee Calibrate & Assure performance reviews and GERACCC, Audit Committee Risks are calibrated to ensure regular reporting and Safety, Health, Environment, consistency and prioritise responses Identify and implement Security and Ethics Committee Second line assurance and internal specific remediation actions SHESEC audit activity Evaluate priority risks within Assess impact of assurance findings the Group risk profile to identify any corrective actions Evaluate Group-wide severe, but plausible, risks and implications Drive continuous improvement through reviewing the Risk Universe and Group risk appetite 42 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our System of Risk Management and Internal Control: How Centrica Works What we stand for Our Purpose Our Values Our Code Our strategic framework Strategy Financial Framework Enterprise Risk Framework Our governance Board and Committees Legal entities Delegations of authority Executive and Committees How we are organised and managed Management Systems Executive management policies, standards andprocesses Business units Operating functions Group functions Corporate functions How we provide assurance Second line assurance Internal Audit How we are organised and managed: Mitigating Risk through our System Management Systems: The detailed policies, standards of Risk Management and Internal Control and processes establishing the mandatory requirements Our System of Risk Management and Internal Control is central to and which are required for the systematic management our governance processes and comprises the following elements: of related risks.
What we stand for: How we provide assurance: Our Purpose: We are an energy and services company.
Second line assurance: Ensuring policies and standards Everything we do is focused on satisfying the changing are complied with through monitoring and testing activities needs of our customers.
performed by individuals who are not directly responsible Our Values: Our Values of Care, Collaboration, Courage, for the operation of the controls relating particularly to Delivery and Agility underpin our strategy and Priorities.
Finance, HSES, and Digital Technology Services.
Our Code: This was launched in early 2018 to replace Internal Audit: Providing confidence to the Board, via our Business Principles and provides the foundation the Audit Committee, that Centrica has appropriate risk for how we operate.
management procedures and effective controls in place.
Our strategic framework: Strategy: This is aligned throughout the organisation With advances in technology and by the five Group Priorities.
the increased decentralisation and Financial Framework: Sets out parameters and targets within which we operate to guide our strategic planning disintermediation in our industry and financial decision-making.
it is increasingly important to Enterprise Risk Framework: Incorporates the understand the breadth of our risks Principal Risks within the Group Risk Universe.
and how they are being managed.
Our governance: Alison Hill Board and Committees: Structured to effectively execute Group Head of Enterprise Risk required duties and through which our Principal Risks are monitored.
Legal entities: Subsidiary company legal entities with boards of directors required to meet legal and regulatory obligations.
Delegations of authority: Accountability is delegated through the organisation to individuals in accordance with risk appetite.
Executive and Committees: Oversight to ensure appropriate planning and performance management.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Changes in risk climate and emerging risks Brexit risks We monitor closely the evolving risk climate in relation to each of Given the UKs intention to leave the European Union on 29 March our Principal Risks.
We consider that our overall risk climate has 2019, we established a dedicated Brexit project group following broadly remained unchanged over the past year.
During 2018 and into 2019, that group specific Principal Risks there have been movements.
Notably worked intensively with colleagues across Centrica to anticipate the risks related to regulatory intervention declined with the and mitigate, as far as possible, any adverse impacts on the clarity provided on the SVT Price Cap, but the broader political Group and our customers.
These efforts were strongly focused uncertainty counteracts this.
We monitor those risks that could on the no deal risk of leaving the EU without an agreement, impact on the Group in the future, including risks relating to our addressing both the potential financial consequences and the competitiveness, global energy and services trends, political need to maintain operational business continuity.
Particular developments and climate change.
attention was paid to our pan-European energy trading activities, our Bord Gis business operating within the Integrated Single Emerging risks relating to competitiveness result from the need Electricity Market ISEM on the island of Ireland, the impact of a to be agile in delivering growth in gross margin in an environment no deal Brexit on cross-border trade in goods procurement and where there are many new entrants and our competitive landscape supply chains and the need to facilitate continued cross-border is evolving.
We focus on serving our customers and have worked transfers of protected personal data.
We have completed our in 2018 to strengthen our leadership teams.
Quarterly performance business impact assessment and this has been independently reviews are held with all parts of the business to monitor progress assessed through our Internal Audit function and advisors.
against targets and embed continuous improvement.
We have individual working groups with clear accountabilities We are adapting our company to be agile and to embrace established for the necessary contingency plans and no deal the future as a 21st century energy and services company.
risk mitigation for both the direct and indirect consequences.
The shifting of power to the consumer means todays customers Specific and material no deal risks considered in February 2019 are accustomed to using the Internet of Things IoT.
To stay at include the following: the forefront of technology, we are increasing our investment in our energy trading entities may face additional obligations Connected Homes with innovations to give customers control over under EU financial services legislation particularly, the their home energy management.
Similarly, our Distributed Energy European Market Infrastructure Regulation because that & Power business helps customers gain competitive advantage legislation will no longer recognise UK energy derivative from energy and allows us to offer end-to-end solutions.
Ongoing trades as it does within the EU: digitisation will continue to provide opportunities to improve productivity and accessibility of energy systems, and therefore we do not yet know whether we have a UK obligation to present customer satisfaction, and may also improve safety and EU ETS carbon permits in 2019, making it more difficult manage sustainability.
However, digitisation also brings new security our carbon position: and privacy risks.
Security operations monitoring teams are the future of the ISEM on the island of Ireland may be at risk: developing new ways to detect physical, cyber and insider efficient day-ahead access to the electricity interconnectors attacks.
We also have a Proactive Cyber Assurance team in between GB and the Republic of Ireland Northern Ireland may place to identify system vulnerabilities before they are exploited.
not be available for some time after Brexit, making it more Risks relating to the global political and economic environment, complex for Bord Gis to manage its electricity pricing risks: global disease outbreaks, interstate conflict, trade wars, terrorist we and or our customers will face the risks of a weaker pound, attacks and climate change are monitored with a focus on the WTO import duties and logistical delays at UK ports of entry countries in which we operate.
As our Group footprint grows, putting up the costs of EU-sourced equipment and potentially we need to be increasingly attentive to risks specific to new making it more difficult to manage unplanned outages of energy jurisdictions in which we operate.
We manage relationships producing facilities: with multiple stakeholders to understand how global events since the UK will lose blanket EU approval for cross-border can impact on our operations and monitor macro-environmental transfers of personal data, we are taking steps to include factors to assess the impact on commodity prices.
EU-approved model clauses within all the relevant contracts: Climate change presents particular concerns and we are focused and on ensuring we can respond to increased weather volatility, with a weaker pound, lower UK interest rates and higher UK inflation its potential to harm our customer service levels, if we are unable in the wake of a no deal Brexit could push up the level of UK to adapt appropriately to events like the extreme cold weather corporate pensions deficits, including our own.
in the UK during the first few months of 2018.
Lessons learnt from such events have helped us to put new measures in place Principal Risks for similar issues in the future.
The Group Risk Universe is made up of a holistic framework of Principal Risks, laid out below in the Groups order of prioritisation.
The Board makes a robust assessment of these Principal Risks, considering future performance and our ability to deliver the strategy, including solvency and liquidity risks.
For each Principal Risk, we discuss the nature of the risk and the impact on our Group Priorities.
Each Principal Risk is overseen directly by the Board or one of its committees, with the Board retaining overall responsibility for risk across the Group.
Our assessment of risks extends to risks associated with our investments in joint ventures and associates, including our nuclear business.
The impact and likelihood of these risks are evaluated and reported using a consistent approach.
44 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Health, Safety, Environment Political and Regulatory Intervention Financial Market Description Risk of political or regulatory Risk of financial loss due to our and Security HSES Risk of failure to protect the health, intervention and changes, including exposure to market movements, those resulting from Brexit, or a failure including commodity prices, inflation, safety and security of customers, employees and third parties or to to influence such changes.
interest rates and currency fluctuations.
take appropriate measures to protect External Risk External Risk with our environment and in response elements that are Risk Requiring Governance Oversight: to climate change.
Judgement Board Risk Requiring Standards Governance oversight: Priority: Board and Audit Committee Governance Oversight: Cash flow growth and strategic Board and Safety, Health, Environment, momentum Priority: Security and Ethics Committee Cash flow growth and strategic momentum Priority: Safety, compliance and conduct As described on page 44, Brexit Due to our large upstream and Our operations have the potential to Potential presents risks that are being closely downstream business positions, our result in personal or environmental impacts managed in relation to changing exposure to adverse price movements harm.
Significant HSES events policies in the energy market and with in commodity markets could impact could have regulatory, financial and regards to carbon emissions.
While the profitability and cash flow generation reputational repercussions that would results of the Ofgem investigation into across the business.
While increased adversely affect some, or all, of our Standard Variable Tariffs is now known, volatility in commodity prices could brands and businesses.
We recognise there is continued regulatory pressure provide more opportunities, it could and report on incidents that do occur, in the Consumer Energy Supply also give rise to higher collateral costs as described on page 19. markets in the UK and North America and or additional credit risk for both that could result in the erosion of our Energy Marketing & Trading EM&T profit margins.
There is a risk of partial and North America Business.
Further, total regulation of a small number of it would create volatility in asset and retail and or natural gas markets in contract valuations.
Operating costs could also warm autumn winter in the UK and a increase in the case of further smart cooler summer in the US could reduce meter and or energy efficiency customer demand significantly.
We are committed to an open, Financial risk is reviewed regularly We are restructuring our business to Mitigation transparent and competitive UK by the Financial Risk, Assurance and make it less carbon intensive and we energy market which provides Control Committee, and the Group engage with climate change bodies choice for consumers.
Ethics, Risk, Assurance, Control and and NGOs to offer our perspective, Compliance Committee to assess understand the direction of future Executive Directors and senior financial exposures and compliance actions and assess our readiness management actively engage in with risk limits.
Regular review is also to respond to change.
discussions with political parties, undertaken by the Audit Committee.
regulatory authorities and other We engage with regulatory agencies such as the Environment Agency, stakeholders.
Stress testing analysis is presented weekly to the EM&T Risk Committee.
Oil and Gas Authority and UK HSEx We have dedicated Corporate Affairs to ensure we comply with legislative and Regulatory teams which examine As we move into new trading regulatory requirements.
upcoming political and regulatory arrangements, we are focused changes and their impact.
on ensuring that our financial HSES Management Systems risk policies remain appropriate are established to include the We have a dedicated Brexit project to the risks we face.
policies, standards and procedures, group which aims to identify and focusing on areas of concern assess the many Brexit-related We have appropriate hedging like process safety, driving and issues which might impact the strategies in place that are regularly working at heights.
updated to mitigate exposure to commodity and financial We undertake regular reviews market volatility.
and have assurance processes in place with reporting to the HSES We are investing in our systems Committee on a quarterly basis.
to further automate and strengthen our control environment.
Security intelligence operating procedures, crisis management plans and business continuity plans are regularly evaluated and tested.
We drive an Incident Free Workplace IFW culture across our business.
We continue to invest in training to ensure we maintain safe operating practices and require all employees to complete the relevant online HSES courses for their role.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties External Market Environment Brand, Trust and Reputation Legal, Regulatory and Information Systems and Security Strategy Delivery Change Management Description Risk that our strategy is not appropriate Risk that events in the external market Risk that our competitive position Risk of failure in the identification, Ethical Standards Compliance Risk of reduced effectiveness, or environment could hinder the is compromised by poor standards Risk of failure to comply with laws and availability, integrity and security to respond to external issues and or the alignment and execution of change risk that the strategy is not deliverable delivery of our strategy.
of fairness and transparency, and programmes and business regulations, and to behave ethically in of IT systems and data essential by failing to protect our brands.
line with Our Code, resulting in adverse for our operations.
External Risk reputational and or financial impact.
Risk Requiring Judgement Risk Requiring Judgement Risk Requiring Judgement Risk Requiring Standards Governance oversight: with elements that are Risks Risk Requiring Standards with elements that are Risks Governance oversight: Board Governance oversight: Requiring Standards.
Requiring Judgement Board Board Governance oversight: Priority: Governance oversight: Board and Safety, Health, Environment, Governance oversight: Priority: Cash flow growth and strategic Priority: Board Security and Ethics Committee.
Board, Audit Committee and Cash flow growth and strategic momentum Customer satisfaction and Safety, Health, Environment, momentum operational excellence Priority: Priority: Security and Ethics Committee Cost efficiency and simplification Safety, compliance and conduct Priority: Safety, compliance and conduct Successful delivery of our strategy We operate in highly competitive Failure to appropriately manage If transformation projects are not Any real or perceived failure to follow Our substantial customer base and Potential requires serving customers in a way markets, where customer behaviour, brand perception, media attention aligned to our strategic objectives, Our Code or comply with legal or strategic requirement to be at the impacts that satisfies their changing needs in needs and demands are evolving due and lobbying from pressure groups or not implemented appropriately, regulatory obligations would undermine forefront of technological development, a competitive marketplace.
Failure to to digitisation, energy efficiency, climate could impact customer sentiment the expected benefits may not be trust in our business.
Non-compliance means that it is critical that our identify changing trends in customers change, government initiatives and and could ultimately result in a realised and resources for other critical could lead to financial penalties, technology is robust, our systems needs, stay ahead of technological the general economic outlook.
Failure reduction in overall customer numbers.
There are reputational damage, customer are secure, and our data is protected.
and digital advancements, develop to react appropriately and rapidly to Failure to be fair and transparent many transformation initiatives that churn and or legal action.
Sensitive data faces the threat of appropriate responses to changing changes in customer behaviour could could lead to reputational damage, could be disruptive and or result in misappropriation, for example from markets and competitive environments, result in the erosion of our customer falling share prices and, in the case compromise to the control environment hackers and viruses, leading to and build the necessary capabilities base, leading to reduced revenues of very poor standards, legal action.
potential financial loss and or to compete, have the potential to and associated margins.
adversely impact our cash flow we are subject to global market Failure to deliver IT solutions in support growth and value goals.
volatility in our upstream businesses of the prioritised objectives and change in commodity markets.
programmes in the business would have consequences both for our organisational transformation and in some cases, our compliance obligations.
The Board sets and reviews the We focus on understanding We aim to deliver a fair, simplified We have a standardised requirement Regulatory compliance monitoring Our HSES Physical Security and Mitigation Groups strategy, determining the consumer segments and their needs, and transparent offering to all our articulated as Our Approach to activities are performed by a single Resilience and Digital Technology strategic direction and confirming through products and services that customers.
function to drive Group-wide Services Information Security the strategic choices made by are attractive and competitive.
Functions have been combined to We engage with NGOs, consumer Transformation programmes are the business.
Regular reviews are form a Global Security Function.
We undertake regular analysis and customer groups, political approved by the Board via the Control frameworks are in place conducted considering changes in of commodity price fundamentals parties, regulators, charities and Group Strategic Planning and to deliver customer experience Our information security strategy market trends and the competitive and their potential impact on our other stakeholders to identify capital allocation process.
in line with requirements over seeks to integrate information environment, and the business business plans and forecasts.
solutions to help reduce bills and sales compliance, billing, retentions, systems, personnel and physical Investment appraisal criteria are response.
improve trust in the industry.
customer correspondence and aspects to prevent, detect and Our Market and Competitive defined in Group Investment The Board and Executive Committee complaints handling.
These are investigate threats and incidents.
Intelligence team monitors We review and monitor changes Committee Guidance.
regularly review the capabilities regularly reviewed by relevant in our customer brand position We have established governance movements in markets and provides Progress on specific projects is required to deliver on the strategy leadership teams through KPIs.
information to enable appropriate through Net Promoter Score NPS.
bodies to oversee compliance with consistently monitored through and address issues as they appear.
Our GDPR Steering Group has We are transforming our complaints Steering Groups and reported We have a clear financial framework had oversight of our cross-functional We are increasing our investment process to lower backlogs and through to the Board.
We have a Digital Technology to ensure capital is allocated in initiatives to drive compliance and in areas like Connected Home and resolution times, and to address Services Strategy Committee in We have dedicated change capability accordance with our strategy and to determine how we govern our Distributed Energy & Power, that help root causes.
place to track progress of the at Group and business unit level to that balance sheet strength and data appropriately.
to satisfy the emerging customer strategic priorities for technology, We closely monitor key metrics monitor the realisation of benefits, return on capital boundary conditions needs of having more control over Our Financial Crime team monitors data and digital activities.
including broken promises the prioritisation of efforts and to are met.
and awareness of their energy usage.
appointments, grade of service share best practice.
We regularly evaluate the adequacy We have dedicated teams to ensure We have developed Centrica and complaint numbers.
The global Speak Up helpline of our infrastructure and IT security We have post-merger integration we continue to develop and innovate Innovations and our Technology has been relaunched to provide a controls, test our contingency and procedures in place to integrate in new technologies.
& Engineering function to keep consistent Group-wide approach recovery processes, and undertake acquired businesses.
Our Digital Technology Services abreast of technological advances.
and reinforce the importance of employee awareness and training.
function works in partnership with this channel as a means to flag Controls testing and security Change functions to assure and unethical behaviour.
patching around our core systems is deliver programmes of change.
performed regularly, and our controls are further tested by outside experts.
46 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 External Market Environment Brand, Trust and Reputation Legal, Regulatory and Information Systems and Security Strategy Delivery Change Management Description Risk that our strategy is not appropriate Risk that events in the external market Risk that our competitive position Risk of failure in the identification, Ethical Standards Compliance Risk of reduced effectiveness, or environment could hinder the is compromised by poor standards Risk of failure to comply with laws and availability, integrity and security to respond to external issues and or the alignment and execution of change risk that the strategy is not deliverable delivery of our strategy.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Asset Development, Financial Processing and Reporting Business Planning, Forecasting and Balance Sheet Strength and Credit People Customer Service Description Risk that we are unable to attract Availability and Performance Risk of errors or losses arising from the Risk of failure to consistently provide Performance Management Position Risk that failures in the development or processing and reporting of financial Risk that plans and forecasts may Risk that our balance sheet may not be and retain employees to ensure that good quality customer service through the business has the appropriate integrity of our investments in operated transactions for both internal and the customer lifecycle, with potential not be deliverable or may fail to drive resilient, with implications for our ability and non-operated assets could external purposes.
efficient and effective performance, to withstand difficult market or trading capabilities to meet our strategic consequences being increased objectives.
There is also a potential compromise performance delivery.
consumer churn and declining gross and the risk of failures in performance conditions or financial stresses to the Risk Requiring Standards reporting.
risk of industrial action as a large margin.
Risk Requiring Judgement Governance oversight: proportion of our field and office-based Risk Requiring Judgement Risk Requiring Judgement with Risk Requiring Judgement Governance oversight: Board and Audit Committee employees are represented by trade elements that are Risks Requiring Board Governance oversight: Governance oversight: unions and works councils.
Priority: Standards Board Board and Audit Committee Priority: Safety, compliance and conduct Risk Requiring Judgement Governance oversight: Customer satisfaction and operational Priority: Priority: with elements that are Risks Board and Audit Committee excellence Customer satisfaction and operational Cash flow growth and strategic Requiring Standards excellence Priority: momentum Governance oversight: Cash flow growth and strategic Board and Safety, Health, Environment, momentum Security and Ethics Committee Priority: People and building capability Failure to attract and retain key Failure to invest in the maintenance and The accounting landscape is evolving The delivery of high quality customer We prioritise how we allocate resources Failure to operate within the Groups Potential capabilities across the business development of our assets could result with the adoption of IFRS 9 and 15 service is central to our business according to our business plans and financial framework could result in risk impacts could have a detrimental impact in significant safety issues or asset in 2018.
We have also evaluated strategy.
With the entry of new forecasts.
Failure to accurately plan to maintaining our target credit rating, on our ability to meet our underperformance through unplanned the impact of IFRS 16. competitors to the market, customers and forecast, accounting for the which would impact our access to strategic objectives.
Operational integrity is vital to are increasingly likely to switch if they evolving business environment, could cost-effective capital and trading During the current transformation of our ability to deliver projects in line with are unimpressed with their customer result in sub-optimal decisions and arrangements.
The risk of industrial action in our our Finance function the potential for the strategic objectives.
failure to realise anticipated benefits.
businesses may have a potential failures in core controls is increased.
Long-term financial obligations may we experienced asset outages in Spirit impact on customer service levels Remaining at the forefront of digital increase in value due to factors both There is a risk that we fail to comply Energy, as reported on page 27. and retention.
developments and innovation is critical inside and outside of our control, with relevant tax and regulatory as it leads to increased choice and such as pension schemes, resulting requirements.
We require the right behaviours from control for our customers.
in additional funding required to meet our leaders and employees to deliver our obligations.
our business strategy in line with We also face risks regarding our ability Our Values and Our Code.
to develop and price propositions competitively and profitably, which has increased recently as our business moves into new markets.
Our Code and Our Values set Capital allocation and investment The Audit Committee reviews our Leadership teams in our front-line Annual planning processes are We assess available resources on a Mitigation the behavioural expectations decisions are governed through compliance with both our internal businesses establish accountability subject to scrutiny from the Executive regular basis.
Significant committed for all employees.
for specific aspects of the customer Committee and the Board with facilities are maintained with journey and assess performance respect to underlying market trends, sufficient cash held on deposit to We continue to evolve a clearly Group-wide minimum standards During 2018 the Audit Committee daily and weekly.
competitive threats, organisational meet fluctuations as they arise.
defined people strategy based on are applied to all assets, whether has regularly reviewed progress capability and delivery.
Central culture and engagement, equality operated or non-operated.
in the finance transformation We operate an environment We model the severe, but plausible contingencies are considered and wellbeing, talent development, programme, including objectives of continuous improvement, scenarios and consequences of Maintenance activity and in response to the aggregated training and reward and recognition.
around strengthening the control incorporating an accredited our risks and their potential to improvement programmes are risk position.
programme STAR, and use root impact our net debt position.
The Executive Committee has clear conducted across the asset base cause analysis of complaint and Group functions have adopted Our financial control framework The current credit rating position oversight through regular discussions to optimise effectiveness and NPS insight to continuously standardised planning processes of the people-related challenges maximise production levels.
incorporates our financial controls is reported and discussed improve our service delivery.
in support of business unit priorities, and management self-assessment regularly by the Centrica Board.
inherent in our transformation driving improved integration of plans.
Customer and Field Operations We consider accounting The performance of each business teams monitor customer service We have been developing a more We undertake detailed testing and assumptions impacting on our levels, ensuring enquiries are unit is reviewed against their plan strategic relationship with our trade evaluation of the effectiveness of balance sheet carefully, including throughout the year so that any answered in a timescale and manner union colleagues and engage with our controls in response to critical decommissioning and impairment.
acceptable to the customer, indications of plans not being them on restructuring and issues that financial risks, reporting to the Long-term obligation estimates delivered can be understood and any complaint levels are minimised, could impact terms and conditions, Finance, Risk, Assurance and are updated annually.
and that customer satisfaction required actions can be undertaken.
with clear and open processes to Control Committee quarterly.
Counterparty exposures are is reviewed at all stages of the cultivate an environment of trust Quarterly performance review Following the reported issues in customer journey.
restricted by setting credit limits and honesty.
meetings involving the Executive North America reporting at the for each counterparty, where Customer service agents are quality Committee enable the review of We conduct annual Employee end of 2017, we have executed possible with reference to assessed for consistency with a plans and forecasts, with revisions Engagement surveys and results a specific action plan.
rigorous training and performance identified as necessary.
are reviewed and actioned by The Group Tax function has a control management programme.
Wholesale credit risks associated senior leaders.
Post Investment Reviews are framework, to ensure compliance with commodity trading and Performance parameters are conducted to assess investment We have implemented a Career with all requirements, which has treasury positions are managed monitored weekly for all third-party performance, whether benefits were been globalised to drive consistency Development Office designed to in accordance with Group policy.
service providers involved in the fully realised and lessons that can promote and harness internal talent.
be applied for future investment.
48 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Asset Development, Financial Processing and Reporting Business Planning, Forecasting and Balance Sheet Strength and Credit People Customer Service Description Risk that we are unable to attract Availability and Performance Risk of errors or losses arising from the Risk of failure to consistently provide Performance Management Position Risk that failures in the development or processing and reporting of financial Risk that plans and forecasts may Risk that our balance sheet may not be and retain employees to ensure that good quality customer service through the business has the appropriate integrity of our investments in operated transactions for both internal and the customer lifecycle, with potential not be deliverable or may fail to drive resilient, with implications for our ability and non-operated assets could external purposes.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Procurement and Supplier Management Description Risk of failure to source effectively and to co-ordinate and collaborate with the supply chain to ensure value delivery and continuity.
Risk Requiring Judgement with elements that are Risks Requiring Standards Governance oversight: Board and Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee Priority: Customer satisfaction and operational excellence Our business operations rely on products and services Potential provided through third parties, including outsourced impacts activities, infrastructure and operating responsibility for some assets.
We rely on these parties to comply with contractual terms in addition to legal, regulatory and ethical business requirements.
Failure to comply with Centricas policy and standards when procuring goods and services or to manage key suppliers and contracts effectively could inhibit the ability of the business to maintain competitive products and services, or expose the Group to a range of regulatory or legal risks.
We have established an end-to-end category management Mitigation process to maximise value capture throughout the procurement lifecycle, from market analysis through to ongoing contract management and monitoring.
All suppliers are required to sign up to our Ethical Procurement policies and procedures.
We review the ethical conduct of our suppliers, including a programme of supplier visits to provide additional assurance over practices employed.
Financial health, risk and anti-bribery and corruption due diligence and monitoring is implemented in supplier selection and contract renewal processes.
Audits are conducted in relation to third-party operation of jointly operated Exploration & Production assets.
50 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Viability Statement Requirement The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 requires the Directors to assess the prospects for the Group, taking into account the current position and significant risks, over a longer period than the 12 months required for the going concern assessment.
Centricas Directors maintain a focus on assessing the Groups long-term prospects and viability over an appropriate time period.
Assessment of prospects Assessment of viability Following the strategic review in 2015 we have focused on reshaping The Board continues to believe that three years is the appropriate the Group and driving efficiencies to be fit for the future, including timeframe to assess viability reflecting the planning horizon for the a future where our largest customer base is impacted by price caps Group.
Our increasing focus on the energy supply and services on certain tariffs.
We are confident that the measures we have taken businesses means our most significant risks are shorter term in nature, and the efficiencies we have realised, as described on page 15 such as the potential for regulatory change and competitive pressures leave the Group in a strong relative competitive position.
creating disruption in our customer-facing markets.
Similarly, the commodity markets in which we operate generally only have In assessing our prospects, we consider the success in delivery of transparent and executable pricing available for a three-year period.
our strategy and our current business performance.
The Directors have evaluated and approved the Group Annual Plan for 2019 and We evaluate each of our Principal Risks and aggregate the specific the strategic plan for the years beyond this.
In doing so we considered severe, but plausible outcomes within the following scenarios: carefully the risks to the delivery of the strategy and plans within incidents and events, such as further regulatory intervention with the categories of Principal Risk outlined on pages 45 to 50. the potential to create significant churn that materially reduces The risks we consider to be of greatest significance include: our customer numbers, a rapid decline in gross margin through failing to deliver our plan and or have the potential for material the risk of further political or regulatory turbulence or intervention: fines, such as those associated with data loss under GDPR: external risks associated with commodity and other index significant disruption to our asset-based businesses, including movements: a process safety or asset integrity incident and interruptions risks associated with the effectiveness of our internal control through outages of up to two years in our production schedules environment in relation to cyber, data protection and customer in Spirit Energy: conduct: and external events beyond our control including movements risks related to our competitive positioning in a world of rapid digital in commodity prices ranging from 25% to 75%: and innovation and increased customer choice.
one-off events including a significant business disruption following We focus on the critical actions to mitigate risk so that we increase a cyber incident or major weather event.
the likelihood of successfully delivering our strategy.
In addition to In the current year we have considered also the range of potential the oversight provided by our Board and Executive Committee, consequences resulting from Brexit as described on page 44.
The impact our assurance teams, including Internal Audit, monitor the of the combined scenarios is compared to our net debt headroom, effectiveness of these activities to enable timely corrective action.
which is forecast to be in the region of 3 billion to 3.5 billion throughout Our risk climate has not receded during the year, but we have the period modelled without the need for additional debt.
For those embedded improved controls and assurance activities in areas risks where the outcome is not binary we perform sensitivity analysis.
The including finance and performance management, information security, most significant of these risks relate to customer churn and commodity data protection, cyber, asset integrity, personal safety and regulatory price movements.
Finally, we model the indirect consequences of each of compliance, which we can demonstrate has increased our resilience these issues in relation to the potential for downgrades in our credit rating.
in the face of both internal and external risks.
We are comfortable None of the individual scenarios result in the requirement for further in the prospects of the Group in the context of our strategy combined mitigation.
However, should an extreme combination of these severe with our focus on strong internal controls.
but plausible events arise we are able to identify mitigating actions including a significant reduction in operating costs, potential business disposals, reducing technology-related expenditure, reducing capital expenditure in Spirit Energy, reductions in dividend payments, delaying a planned share buyback or the redemption of the hybrid bond and further portfolio adjustments.
Key assumptions embedded in these assessments include: the use of known consequences, historical evidence and the evaluation of similar events observed in the market to calculate the potential impact: target customer numbers, commodity price curves, efficiency programme targets and the shape of the future portfolio: ongoing access to our existing sources of funding, including undrawn credit facilities of 3.9 billion as described in note 24 b to the consolidated Financial Statements, which currently expire between April 2021 and October 2021, with renewal of 4.2 billion of revolving credit facilities expected to occur by the end of February: and no further changes in our capital structures such as any new debt funding.
Conclusion The Directors have considered all the above factors in their assessment of viability over the next three years.
We have performed sensitivity analysis which enables the Directors to confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that no individual scenario, or combination of these scenarios, could result in the inability of the Group to continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over a period of at least three years.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51
