Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 1.
PROVISION OF NEXT AND DATA CONTROL PERFORMANCE OF GENERATION CINEMAS FILM CONTENT A critical system interruption or major Lack of access to high quality, diverse Maintaining refurbishing existing sites IT security breach encountered.
and well publicised movie product.
and or developing new sites fails to provide a circuit of next generation cinemas.
LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY RISK OWNER RISK OWNER RISK OWNER Deputy CEO CCO CEO IMPACT IMPACT IMPACT Any critical system interruption for a sustained Underpinning the overall success of the Group Ensuring our cinemas are of state-of-the-art period could have a significant impact on the is the quality of the movie slate, the timeliness design and have the latest cutting edge cinema Groups performance.
In addition, any breach of release, the release window and the appeal of experience technology are both key for our cyber or otherwise of data protection rules such movies to our customers.
Where the movie strategy to provide the best place to watch.
A or security measures surrounding the storage studios do not produce sufficiently attractive deviation from this could have a direct impact on of confidential and proprietary information movies, or movies underperform, this has a direct admissions and the financial health of the Group.
including movie content could result in impact on cinema attendance and, therefore, box unauthorised access, loss or disclosure of office revenue for the Group may decline.
This could lead to claims, regulatory penalties, disruption of operations of the Group and ultimately reputational damage.
MITIGATION ACTIVITY MITIGATION ACTIVITY MITIGATION ACTIVITY The Group IT function monitors, manages We work closely with distributors to acquaint The site prioritisation analysis for the selection and optimises our systems, including ensuring ourselves, as early as possible, with the of refurbishments, new sites and or closures.
their resilience through regular back-ups and upcoming film slate in order to forecast likely Project Management expertise that allows the implementation of security measures.
the unique position of renovating without External experts are employed where Although access to the latest movie slate is cinema closures.
necessary to oversee and help manage reliant on our relationship with the distributors, Ensuring access to the latest cutting edge major projects involving the upgrading the Groups strategy is to show a wide range technology through our ability to secure or replacement of key systems.
of movies over and above the traditional agreements with key suppliers.
This allows us to Under the direction of the Group Data Maintaining long-term working relationships capitalise on specific local area demand for Protection Officer there is a Data Privacy with key contractors to ensure continued type and content of movies shown.
Security Committee supported by external access to knowledge and experience.
professional advisors that drives the programme of data protection across the Group.
CHANGES IN THE YEAR CHANGES IN THE YEAR CHANGES IN THE YEAR Integration plans projects have commenced The level of admissions in 2018 has continued The acquisition of Regal now puts the Group or been completed across our systems, to demonstrate an undiminished appetite for as the second largest circuit in the world processes and resources.
cinema attendance which has resulted in operating over 9,500 screens in almost record box office numbers in the US.
The threat of cyber risks has continued to be a focus throughout the year with additional In the ROW countries locally produced The Group grew the estate as a further nine investment being made to ensure we maintain movies continue to be very popular, often new cinemas 6 in US, 6 in the UK and 1 in the a control environment appropriate for the outperforming the Hollywood blockbusters, ROW opened during the year.
size of the Group, proportionate to the risk especially in Poland.
For further details see The Group proactively managed its existing faced and one that maintains pace with the Chief Financial Officers Review on page 31. estate through the refurbishment and advancements in technology.
selective closure of certain sites.
The introduction of the General Data Four refurbishments were completed in the Protection Regulation GDPR has meant UK, including our flagship Leicester Square some changes to systems, policies and site.
We have started the refurbishment plans procedures to ensure compliance.
in the US with 10 sites to be refurbished for the first phase of the programme.
We signed new agreements with both IMAX, 4DX and ScreenX to install a total of 55 new IMAX Laser projectors across the estate, 804DX screens in the US and 100 ScreenX.
For further details see the Chief Executive Officers Review on page 4.
OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY Continuing the programme of investment in There is a strong movie release programme Utilise the success and experience of systems and ensuring our processes are for 2019 and therefore we expect these to upgrading Cinemas in a mature UK market to robust will strengthen the day-to-day drive continued growth in admissions.
capitalise on the opportunities in the mature operations across the Group.
The increase in geographic footprint will further enhance our ability to mitigate against year-onyear volatility to the individual cinema markets.
Be technological leaders Provide the best Expand and Drive value for KEY in the industry cinema experience enhance our estate shareholders Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 4.
CI NEMA OPERATIONS AND COMPETITION RETAIL CONCESSION OFFERINGS The quality of products and services Delivery of a retail concession offering Failure to maintain and operate well offered fails to meet the needs of the that does not meet the requirements run and cost effective cinemas.
customer and deliver an enhanced and preferences of our customers.
LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY RISK OWNER RISK OWNER RISK OWNER CCO CCO CEO IMPACT IMPACT IMPACT Although cinema admissions are predominantly Retail concession sales generally fluctuate in line Operating cinemas well is pivotal to the overall driven by the quality and availability of films, with admissions and the genre of film on show.
Key to this is to ensure ensuring that the Group continually enhances the Therefore, if admissions were to fall, revenue from that cinema management understand the viewer experience is crucial.
Any decrease in the retail sales could decrease.
Retail spend may also local market film scheduling, pricing and quality of the services we offer, from the ease of decrease due to changes in customer preferences, retail offerings, effectively manage their booking and the technology we use to a friendly decreased disposable income or other economic employees, maintain service standards, and farewell on departure, could result in loss of and cultural factors.
In addition, the cost of items are able to react to incidents should they occur.
customers to competitors and or other leisure such as energy and foodstuffs, as well as the A reduction in performance in any area can entertainment attractions.
introduction of the Soft Drinks Industry Levy, have a direct effect on the overall viewer has a direct impact on price.
experience, reputation of the cinemas and ultimately the Groups financial performance.
MITIGATION ACTIVITY MITIGATION ACTIVITY MITIGATION ACTIVITY Our strategy is focused on continually Through our ongoing monitoring of various Cinema management continually monitor their improving the quality of services we offer metrics, including spend per person, we have staffing requirements, making adjustments to customers and making a visit to our the ability to understand and react quickly to to scheduling based on customer demand, cinemas a unique experience.
This includes increasing the efficiency of A key strategy for the Group is to maintain On a monthly basis detailed operational and online booking, cutting edge cinema design, a strong relationship with the principal financial reviews are undertaken by cinema removing clutter from the foyers, investing in retail suppliers.
management teams to ensure performance technical innovation and premium offerings matches expected targets.
We run targeted promotions and bring 4DX and other large screen formats, in different ranges of products to meet Ongoing evolution and updating of cinema upgrading seating options further rollout changing customer demand.
of the VIP offering to 12 sites in total and The introduction of franchising models improving retail offers.
for some of the key suppliers has also We also focus on our approach to customer been an important way of enhancing interaction with the Group outside of the the range of offerings.
We are working closely with our drinks partners to reduce and, where possible, mitigate the potential impact of the Soft Drinks Industry Levy.
We are doing this by broadening our ranges of diet and sugar free options along with water and trialling innovation with reformulated products whilst still providing consumer choice based on preferences.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR Our investment in ensuring we can offer as Retail revenue remains a function of admissions Retail revenue remains a function of admissions many screen formats as possible continued with and spending trends in each local market.
This and spending trends in each local market.
This signing new agreements with IMAX, 4DX and has been positively impacted by the expansion has been positively impacted by the continued ScreenX during 2018 to install a total of 55new of the Groups retail offerings including five evolution of the Groups retail offerings.
IMAX Laser projectors across the estate, 80 new Starbucks and three new VIP sites.
In the UK we have managed to transition our 4DX screens in the US and 100 ScreenX.
In 2018, For further details see the Chief Executive low no sugar soft drinks offerings to now make 19ScreenX and 9 4DX screens were opened.
Officers Review on page 4 and Chief Financial up the majority of sales demonstrating this is In the US, our new Regal website was Officers Review on page 31. meeting customer preferences.
launched which was positively received by For further details please see Resources and our customers and now more tickets are Relationships on page 28. purchased online than ever.
As part of the integration of the Group, Customer Services for the UK and US have been centralised to ensure consistency in the quality of services offered.
OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY Further expansion of our Unlimited offering Ongoing review and enhancement of the Ongoing review and enhancement of the across the Group.
24 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements 7.
RETENTION AND PERFORMANCE ATTRACTION A major statutory, regulatory or The approach to setting, Failure to attract and retain contractual compliance breach.
communicating, monitoring and Senior Management and or executing a clear strategy fails to other key personnel.
LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY RISK OWNER RISK OWNER RISK OWNER CFO Deputy CEO Deputy CEO IMPACT IMPACT IMPACT The Groups business and operations are affected Although the overall strategy for the Group is The Groups performance and its ability to by regulations covering such matters as planning, not a complex one, it is key that this is executed.
mitigate significant risks within its control depend the environment, health and safety cinemas on its employees and Senior Management teams.
Any diversion from this strategy could result in and construction sites, licensing, food and Therefore, reliance is placed on the Groups ability loss of market share to competitors, failure to drink retailing, data protection and the minimum to recruit, develop and retain Senior Management capitalise on emerging market opportunities, wage.
Failure to ensure ongoing compliance with and other key employees.
If the Group loses key reduction in potential revenue profits and regulation legislation could result in fines and or people this could have an impact on its ability to therefore loss in shareholder value.
MITIGATION ACTIVITY MITIGATION ACTIVITY MITIGATION ACTIVITY Management operate an ongoing cinema A structure is in place to support effective To ensure the long-term success of the Group, compliance programme, supplemented by strategy development, as well as ongoing it uses a variety of techniques to attract, retain independent compliance assurance reviews by reporting and monitoring of business and motivate its staff, with particular attention external advisors where appropriate.
performance on a daily, weekly, monthly, to those in key roles.
Monitoring Senior Group support functions use a combination These techniques include the regular review Management performance against their agreed of ongoing staff development as well of remuneration packages, share incentive personal objectives is an ongoing exercise.
as updates from professional advisors schemes, training, regular communication with to ensure management are aware of the There are various communication strategies staff and an annual performance review process.
latest regulations in key areas.
emails, meetings and conferences used to Nurturing talent across the Group is a key part ensure the strategic goals of the Group are of our strategy and, in support of that, internal clearly understood and executed by Senior succession plays a key part with more than 50% Management.
of cinema management positions filled by internal applicants.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR Appointment of a DPO Data Protection The integration strategy to incorporate the Work has been undertaken to align pay Officer and supporting virtual function best of both companies by bringing together standards in the US to the new operational with representation from key departments world-class talent, integrating best practices structure.
to focus on GDPR General Data Protection and deepening our understanding of the In the UK, an advanced leadership programme Regulation compliance.
that supports General Managers progression Aligned the ROW health and safety audit Although the Group has expanded to the role of Regional Manager was launched.
programme to match approach in UK and significantly, the strategy and vision remains For further details please see Resources and ensure consistency.
the same, to be The Best Place to Watch a Relationships on page 28.
Movie by continually focusing on providing Aligned the US Cinema Compliance Audit the best customer experience, maintaining approach to the rest of the Group.. technological leadership, expanding and For further details please see Risk Management upgrading the estate, and training and and Internal Controls section pages 48 and 49. retaining, highly motivated, experienced and loyal staff.
OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY Align the approach to health and safety audits Capitalise on the enlarged size of the Group The growth of the group has increased in the US to the Group approach.
through our buying and investing ability.
the opportunities for internal promotion, and transfers.
Continue the evolution of our approach to Continual focus on and review of strategy managing compliance to ensure it is embedded ensures the Board is well placed to assess in our day-to-day operations and therefore value adding opportunities as they arise.
ensures efficient processes and procedures.
Be technological leaders Provide the best Expand and Drive value for KEY in the industry cinema experience enhance our estate shareholders Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED NEW 10.
INTERGRATION INTERNALCONTROL WITH REGAL A critical internal control and or Inability to respond to a major incident.
Failure to deliver expected benefits governance failing occurs.
from the Regal acquisition and or integrate the business into the Cineworld Group effectively.
LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY RISK OWNER RISK OWNER RISK OWNER CFO COO CEO IMPACT IMPACT IMPACT Maintaining corporate governance standards Cinema businesses could be affected by a major The significance of the acquisition for the Group and an effective and efficient risk management incident, resulting in the public avoiding going means that execution of an effective integration and internal control system, proportionate to to the cinema.
The Group may be subject to an strategy supported by sufficient management the needs of the Group, is a key part of short and increased risk of boycott, targeted civil unrest, resources is critical.
If any part of this is not long-term success.
Any failure and or weakness and attack on the general public or terrorist optimised then the Group might not achieve in this area financial and non-financial could action threat as a result of operating in and the expected financial and operational benefits have an impact on the efficient and effective or being linked to certain countries or types of which may have an adverse impact on growth, operations of the Group.
This could adversely impact the financial profitability and future cash flow.
MITIGATION ACTIVITY MITIGATION ACTIVITY MITIGATION ACTIVITY The Group uses various mechanisms We receive communications from relevant Review of operational structures to ensure to support the implementation and government authorities and law enforcement they are optimised globally.
agencies which keep us informed and allow us, Retention of key expertise within the Group.
when needed, to monitor any potential impact These include: Some senior management transfers to the external events could have on the security of US from the UK.
implementation of the Group Risk our cinema estate.
Management Framework: Ongoing Executive Director presence Various security systems and or personnel in the US.
ongoing self-assessment process for are in place across the Group.
monitoring cinema compliance and Should an incident occur at one of the Groups financial control standards: sites, business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place to ensure that management regular consultation and advice from can react appropriately.
external advisors: Appropriate insurance is in place to mitigate a risk-based cinema compliance and the financial consequences.
financial control audit programme: the delivery of targeted risk-based internal audit reviews: and the use of technology for live forensic monitoring.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR As part of the Regal integration programme Incidents of terrorism active shooter Cost Synergies greater than expected and a Global Risk and Assurance Strategy has attacks across the globe mean the being delivered at a faster pace.
been developed and is being implemented Group continues to focus on this as Revenue synergies via many initiatives part of its ongoing cinema operations.
Appointment of a new external advisor covering a big scope of our activity.
BDO to support the delivery of our assurance programme.
For further details please see Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 48 and 49.
OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY Continue to further enhance the use of Continuous review of processes which can Delivering the full potential of the technology for embedding automated identify areas for operational improvement combination through the strength of our controls and providing ongoing live assurance.
and improve overall safety at our sites.
brands, focus on customer experience and investment in technology.
For further details please see Chief Executive Officer review on page 4.
Be technological leaders Provide the best Expand and Drive value for KEY in the industry cinema experience enhance our estate shareholders 26 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements Based on the principal risks identified VIABILITY STATEMENT NEW 13.
TREASURY above, scenario based assessments In accordance with the UK Corporate MANAGEMENT were performed for the enlarged Governance Code, the Directors have Group.
The scenarios applied included: assessed the viability of the enlarged Group over a period longer than one Ineffective treasury management reducing admissions, as a result of year, taking into account the Groups slows down our ability to service our lack of film content and or increased current position, the acquisition of debt obligations and deliver against competition through the emergence Regal and the potential impact of our planned strategic initiatives of new technology or alternative the principal risks and uncertainties e. g. refurbishment programmes formats to watch films, set out on pages 22 to 27. reducing average ticket price, as a LINK TO STRATEGY The Directors have determined that result of lack of film content, and or a three year period from the date of increased competition through the approving the financial statements emergence of new technology or constitutes an appropriate period over alternative formats to watch films, which to provide its viability statement.
RISK OWNER no further expansion of the cinema Three years was determined based on CFO estate, and the visibility of the future film slate, the IMPACT enlarged Groups property expansion a combination of the above.
A key future strategy for the Group is ensuring it and renovation plans, investment in has the ability to use the cash generative nature In performing the scenario assessments technology and relationships with the of the business to reduce the net debt to Adjusted the enlarged Group would still be able to film distributors.
Balancing this with the level of continue to meet its day-to-day liabilities planned investment in strategic initiatives globally The Groups business model and will be a continual focus for the Board.
as they fall due over the three year period.
strategy have not changed as a result of While this review does not consider the Regal acquisition, other than being all of the risks that the enlarged Group implemented in the US following the may face, the Directors consider that completion of the acquisition.
Details of MITIGATION ACTIVITY the scenario based assessment prepared Integration of Regal and Cineworld treasury the Groups strategy and business model functions.
of the enlarged Groups prospects is can be found on pages 12 to 15.
The On-going review of financial instruments reasonable in the circumstances of the nature of the enlarged Groups activities being used.
are long-term and the business model is open-ended.
The Groups current overall The Directors believe the risk strategy has been in place for several management and internal control years, subject to the ongoing monitoring systems in place allow them to monitor and evolution as required by the Board.
the key variables that have the ability to impact the liquidity and the solvency The Directors' viability assessment has of the enlarged Group and are confident taken into consideration the potential that management are able to sufficiently impacts of the principal risks in the mitigate any situations should they arise.
business model, future performance, Mitigating actions that could be taken solvency and liquidity over the period, include reducing capital expenditure, including principal mitigating actions reducing dividend payments and that could be considered such as reducing variable costs.
reducing capital expenditure and dividend payments.
Based on this assessment, and having CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR considered the established and expected During 2018 we have been able to reward For the purpose of assessing the enlarged shareholders with growth of 20.4% in the rights controls for the risks and the available Groups viability, the Directors identified adjusted, adjusted diluted earnings per share.
mitigating actions, the Directors confirm that of the principal risks detailed on The Group maintained its dividend pay-out that they have a reasonable expectation pages 22 to 27 the following are the ratio for another year, increasing the full year that the enlarged Group will be able to cash dividend paid by 163.1%.
The proposed most important to the assessment of final dividend is 10.15c per share.
continue in operation and meet its the viability of the enlarged Group: liabilities as they fall due over the period.
lack of availability and performance of film content, OPPORTUNITY viewer experience falling below Reduction in the overall net debt to adjusted expectation or stronger competition, EBITDA could lead to upgrades in credit and ratings and therefore access to enhanced borrowing rates for future growth.
ability to provide next generation cinemas.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27
