RISK MANAGEMENT SUPPORTING GROWTH THROUGH EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT As a result of the acquisition the Principal risks were updated PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES to reflect the revised Group risk profile, with Risk 3 being Operating as a cinema chain that is now in ten different updated and Risk 12 and 13 being added.
countries presents a number of risks and uncertainties that continue to be the focus of the Boards ongoing attention.
In addition, the Board has remained vigilant on the possible impact of the UKs exit from the European Union BREXIT, RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH and consideration has been given to the risks that could have The Groups approach to risk management and internal a significant impact on the underlying trading performance control is designed to manage risk at all levels.
Where of the Group going forward.
possible, the Group has implemented appropriate mitigation Specific management reviews have been undertaken on two strategies to reduce the overall risk exposure in line with the areas that potentially could have a heightened risk exposure, Boards risk appetite.
For further details please see the Group 1.
UK staffing and 2. our supply chain.
The conclusion of these approach to risk management set out on pages 48 and 49. reviews, the fact we do not trade across borders but within During the year the Risk Management Framework was countries and that our business has proven consumer appeal updated to incorporate Regal.
Work is ongoing to fully throughout economic cycles has enabled the Board to embed the updated approach in the US which will continue conclude that there is no specific increase in our risk profile.
throughout 2019 as part of the ongoing maturity evolution of risk management across the Group.
APPETITE The Board undertook a formal annual review of risk appetite, PRINCIPAL RISK ASSESSMENT ensuring that the view it has established for each of the The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal principal risks reflects its current perspective and its willingness risks facing the Group during the year, including those that to accept risk in pursuit of the strategic objectives of the Group.
would threaten its business model, future performance, For further details please see the Group approach to risk solvency and liquidity.
management set out on pages 48 and 49.
The time-frame horizon for consideration of the principal risks VIABILITY is aligned to the three year period used when considering the In addition, the Directors viability assessment has taken into future viability of the Group.
For further details, please see the consideration the potential impact of the principal risks in the Groups viability statement on page 27. business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period, including principal mitigating actions such as reducing capital expenditure.
More details about the viability assessment may be found on page 27.
Principal Risks Risk Strategic Relevance Trend Owner 1.
Technology and Data Control Deputy CEO 2.
Availability and Performance of Film Content CCO 3.
Provision of next Generation Cinemas CEO 4.
Revenue from Retail Concession Offerings CCO 6.
Strategy and Performance Deputy CEO 9.
Retention and Attraction Deputy CEO 10.
Integration with Regal NEW CEO 13.
Treasury Management NEW CFO 22 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
