Risk management The balance of effective Our strategy is to create long-term sustainable value for all of our stakeholders by building on our strong performance, risk management and taking which allows us to maintain and develop our position as the global market leader in shipping services.
advantage of all potential opportunities enables us See more on our strategic objectives on pages 28 and 29. to deliver our strategy.
It is imperative that the integrity and reputation of the Clarksons brand, which underpins the successful delivery of our strategy, is preserved through effective risk management.
Our risk profile continues to adapt as a result of changing Risk culture market conditions and regulations, increasing global political Risk management is an integral part of all of our activities.
uncertainty with associated market volatility, and increasing Risks are considered in conjunction with opportunities in cyber criminality.
We recognise that a number of our principal all business decisions.
We focus on the principal risks which risks, such as changes in the broking industry, also create could affect our business performance and therefore the opportunities for us, as we develop the tools to future proof achievement of our strategic objectives.
Our flat management structure and culture of open See more on our markets on pages 18 to 23. communication across all areas of the business enables employees to identify, assess, manage and report current, Risk environment potential or emerging risks to senior management in a timely Inherent risk attributes of our business include the following manner.
Employees are also encouraged to suggest principles: improvements to processes and controls.
We act as agents in the provision of services See more on our culture on page 33. for and on behalf of our clients As agents, we are bound by the scope and authority Risk appetite determined by our General Terms and Conditions, which Risk appetite reflects the overall level of risk we are willing are communicated to our clients on commencement of to accept in order to achieve our strategic objectives and business with them.
We do not take principal trading is therefore at the heart of our risk management processes.
positions, other than in the new convertible bonds Determining the nature and extent of the risks we are willing business and in exceptional circumstances in the financial to take is the responsibility of the Board.
Our aim is to division should there be a failure of a client to meet its manage each of our principal risks and mitigate them to obligations during the settlement period.
within our agreed risk appetite level.
We do not own physical assets of material value The Board approves the Groups policies, procedures and The strength of our balance sheet comes from cash and controls.
This process enables, where possible, a reduction other current working capital which strengthen with our in risks to the tolerance levels set by the Board.
Our profit and cash flows determining its risk appetite, the Board recognises that are not exposed to asset valuations or the risk of loss a prudent and robust approach to risk mitigation must or damage to physical assets of material value integral be carefully balanced with a degree of flexibility so that to our day-to-day business.
the entrepreneurial spirit which has greatly contributed to the success of the Group is not inhibited.
Capital commitments Aside from regulatory capital commitments in our regulated entities, we are not required to commit material amounts of capital in the conduct of our day-to-day business.
Brexit The scheduled departure of the UK from the EU on The Group has no borrowings 29 March 2019 Brexit creates uncertainties surrounding global economic impacts.
As a global Group, we do not currently believe that our businesses will be materially affected by Brexit, other than any impact arising from movements in the foreign exchange rates.
We continue to monitor developments closely and assess the uncertainty and risks associated with the potential economic and geo-political volatility arising from Brexit.
64 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Controls environment Risk governance Our internal control system is embedded into our culture and We have an established risk management structure in place encompasses the policies, processes and behaviours that, to enable us to identify, document, assess and monitor the taken together: risks facing our business.
facilitate its effective and efficient operation by enabling us to respond appropriately to significant operational, financial, The Board is responsible for: compliance and other risks to achieving our objectives.
This includes the safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use or from loss and fraud and ensuring that liabilities are identified and managed: managing risk to deliver opportunities: help ensure the quality of internal and external reporting.
setting the Groups strategic objectives and This requires the maintenance of proper records and determining the nature and extent of the risks it is processes that generate a flow of timely, relevant willing to take the risk appetite in achieving these and reliable information: and strategic objectives: help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
establishing risk management policies, key controls and procedures to ensure that they continue to be Our internal control system is designed to evaluate and effective and protect the Companys stakeholders: manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide maintaining the Companys system of internal controls reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material and risk management: and misstatement or loss.
reviewing the effectiveness of these systems annually.
The Company continually seeks to improve and update existing procedures and to introduce new controls where necessary.
It is clearly communicated to all staff that they are responsible for ensuring compliance with Group policies, identifying risks within their business and ensuring these risks are controlled The Audit Committee is responsible for: and monitored in the appropriate way.
Approach and framework Our approach is to maintain and strengthen our risk undertaking an annual review of the Groups internal management and internal control framework of identifying, controls and procedures, including those for financial, monitoring, managing, quantifying and assessing the principal operational, compliance and risk management: risks facing our business.
reviewing the external Auditors report in relation to internal control observations: Our risk assessment is formed in stages: reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the 1.
Identify the risks facing the Group: Groups risk management systems and processes: 2.
Document risks on a centrally-managed risk register: overseeing the development of internal control 3.
A ssess the likelihood of occurrence of each risk: procedures which provide assurance that the controls 4.
E valuate the potential impact of each risk on the Group which are operating in the Group are effective and using a quantified scale: sufficient to counteract the risks to which the 5.
Determine the strength and adequacy of the controls Company is exposed: and operating over each risk: reviewing the need for an internal audit function.
Assess the effect of any mitigating factors: 7.
P lot the above factors on a risk matrix: and No significant control deficiencies were identified during 8.
Monitor the above on a regular basis.
The Board recognises that whilst it has limited control over many of the external risks it faces, including, for example, the macro-economic environment, it nevertheless reviews the potential impact of such risks on the business and actively considers them in its decision-making.
The Board continuously monitors key risks.
Operational management Every year, through an integration of culture, compliance and training, we make further progress embedding our risk management approach with all employees.
This is, of course, risk management processes and internal controls an ongoing process and we continue to work hard to improve embedded across divisions and functional areas: risk awareness and enhance controls and procedures to risk identification, assessment and mitigation further mitigate risks.
performed across the business: and risk awareness and safety culture embedded across The Board and senior management take a forward-looking the business.
approach to risk to ensure early identification, timely assessment and, where necessary, mitigation of new and emerging risks, such that they can be evaluated alongside known and continuing risks.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 65 Risk management continued The priority for 2019, in addition to our regular risk Approach and framework continued management activities, is to continue promoting a monitoring In November 2018, the Audit Committee carried out its annual environment of validating, monitoring and reviewing the formal assessment of risk, controls and risk management effectiveness of our existing controls in order to support processes in place.
The Board agreed the residual risks fall the Board in their responsibilities.
within the risk appetite for the Group.
The Board reviews the summary of principal risks at each Board meeting, in conjunction with any movements in their risk factor.
The principal risks that follow, whilst not exhaustive nor The principal risks which may in any order of priority, are those which we believe could have the greatest impact on our business and have been the impact the Groups ability to subject of debate at Board and Audit Committee meetings.
execute its strategic objectives The Board regularly reviews these risks in the knowledge that currently unknown, non-existent or immaterial risks could have not changed since 2017. turn out to be significant in the future, and confirms that a robust assessment has been performed.
Failure to achieve Description Controls mitigating factors Activities in 2018 strategic objectives Due to the size and Frequent communication We have continued international coverage between Executive to focus on delivery of the Group, there is a risk Directors, global of our strategy through Change in risk that our objectives are not Managing Directors and best in class service factor since 2017 communicated effectively staff means we can react in challenged markets.
swiftly to changes in the We have closely and We risk entering into market which could continuously monitored business areas in which impact our strategic developments in our Link to strategic objective: we have no expertise, objectives.
Growth compromising our strategy, Quarterly divisional We engaged with our draining our resources from reviews of risks, operating clients to ensure we See more on our strategic the rest of the business for and financial performance understand their needs objectives on pages 28 to 29. what could potentially be with Managing Directors.
and priorities and deliver an unsuccessful venture.
Daily review of real-time beyond their expectations.
There is also the risk that our strategy does not deliver the required and expected outcomes for stakeholders.
66 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Changes in the Description Controls mitigating factors Activities in 2018 broking industry There is a risk that we We monitor and develop We continued to invest in do not take advantage of, technological applications developing sophisticated or are overtaken by, changes which will impact the technological tools to Change in risk in our industry.
enhance our service factor since 2017 lead to loss of market share, We regularly review offering to our clients loss of revenue and our clients broking and to future proof reputational damage.
Link to strategic objective: Understanding Economic factors Description Controls mitigating factors Activities in 2018 Changes in world trade, We are not dependent Our results show the global GDP and other on any one countrys robustness of our strategy general economic economy as our and business model Change in risk fluctuations impact operations and clients against volatility in our factor since 2017 the demand for ships.
are located in all major markets, particularly The actions of owners maritime and trade those affected by falling and financiers have a direct centres globally.
impact on the supply side Our business model We continue to monitor Link to strategic objective: of our business.
is built on the ability Brexit developments Growth to deal with downturns closely.
Supply demand imbalances and remain profitable.
See more on our markets cause fluctuations in freight Our variable remuneration on pages 18 to 23. rates.
If freight rates, volumes schemes, being profitor asset prices fall, the related, mean that commission that we receive overheads react to on any deal would also fall.
swings in asset values and freight rates.
The scheduled departure We have the resources of the UK from the EU and support available in March 2019 is creating to open offices in new uncertainties surrounding locations, mitigating global economic impacts.
the reliance on regional performance.
Our broad product offering, manned with experts in their fields, means we are in the best position to find new opportunities in volatile market conditions and able to take advantage of market turnarounds.
We review the performance of each office and product line on a monthly basis.
We do not believe that our businesses will be materially affected by Brexit, other than any impact arising from movements in the foreign exchange rates.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 67 Risk management continued Cyber risk and data Description Controls mitigating factors Activities in 2018 security Financial loss, reputational IT processes include We continued to invest damage or operational regular penetration significantly in enhanced disruption resulting from testing, anti-virus and security policies and Change in risk a major breach in the firewall software, quarterly measures, people and factor since 2017 confidentiality, integrity network vulnerability resources dedicated or availability of our scans, frequent password to the prevention of IT systems and data.
Link to strategic objective: complexity requirements, A breach could be caused email authentication Trust by an insider, an external and strict procedures party, inadequate physical on granting and security, insecure software removing access.
development or inadequate Operational processes supply chain management.
include segregation of duties, business continuity planning and regular training.
Loss of key personnel Description Controls mitigating factors Activities in 2018 Losing key personnel may We offer competitive We continued to make impair our coverage of a remuneration and strategic hires.
particular line of business an excellent working We monitor staff turnover Change in risk as our success depends on environment to help and staff absenteeism factor since 2017 the experience, reputation us to retain staff.
in order to understand and performance of our Appraisals enable the reasons behind specialist teams across us to track progress such activity.
Link to strategic objective: the Group.
and discuss career A number of employees development.
transferred locations People Employment contracts within the Clarksons include restrictive Group, accommodating See more on our people covenants, appropriate both the employees on page 33. notice periods and and the Groups needs.
gardening leave provisions to prevent the loss of key information.
Teamwork is encouraged across the Group.
We invest in our teams through training and promote further learning through lectures and encouraging personal study.
Succession planning and documentation of key procedures help minimise any impact of losing personnel.
68 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Employee misuse Description Controls mitigating factors Activities in 2018 of confidential Accidental or deliberate Strict procedures for We continue to invest information disclosure of confidential leavers to ensure no data in staff training and our information could have can be removed from commitment to operating Change in risk a significant reputational the premises.
an ethical work factor since 2017 and financial impact.
Employment contracts environment in order to include confidentiality and promote high standards, non-compete clauses.
consistency and a unified Link to strategic objective: Investment in compliance, approach.
quality assurance and People legal functions to ensure best practice is consistently applied throughout the Group.
Adverse movements Description Controls mitigating factors Activities in 2018 in foreign exchange The Group can be exposed The Group hedges We continued to apply to adverse movements in currency exposure our hedging strategy foreign exchange as our through forward sales consistently and, Change in risk revenue is mainly of US dollar revenues.
as at 31 December 2018, factor since 2017 denominated in US dollars We also sell US dollars the Group had hedges in and the majority of expenses on the spot market to place for 2019 and 2020 are denominated in local meet local currency of US$40m and US$20m currencies.
respectively, being a Link to strategic objective: We continually assess proportion of US dollar Growth rates of exchange, anticipated revenue.
non-sterling balances See more on our financial risk and asset exposures management objectives and policies note on page 169. by currency.
Financial loss arising Description Controls mitigating factors Activities in 2018 from failure of a client Uncertainty in our markets We regularly monitor We continued to provide to meet its obligations continues to affect the global client debt levels for doubtful debts on amount of debt that may using information from a prudent basis.
Change in risk be recoverable.
There were no factor since 2017 any forward order book Provisions are based unexpected losses arising values may have to be on ageing of balances, from a client failure during written off, thereby disputes or doubts over the year.
Link to strategic objective: as well as existing Understanding booked income.
See more on our trade receivables note on pages 159 to 160.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 69 Risk management continued Viability statement The Board do not consider that any single event detailed above would give rise to a viability event for the Group.
Failure to monitor and take the appropriate mitigating action could result in a combination of smaller events or circumstances accumulating to create conditions in which the longer-term The Board has assessed the prospects of the Group over viability is brought into question.
The compounding of events a longer period than the 12 months required by the UK will only occur if no action is taken to mitigate each of the Corporate Governance Codes going concern provision.
smaller events which arise, therefore the probability of such a compound viability event is considered to be extremely low.
In carrying out their robust assessment, the Directors have Given the net funds and free cash resources of the Group, considered the resilience of the Group with reference to: the probability of a compound series of events collectively the risk appetite set by the Board: resulting in the Group becoming unviable is low.
the Groups principal risks and their impact on the strategic objectives: Based on their assessment of prospects and viability and the effectiveness of mitigating actions: the outcome of the sensitivity analyses, the Directors confirm the business model: that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will future operational performance: and be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they financial performance, solvency and liquidity fall due over the three-year period ending 31 December 2021. over the period.
In doing so, it is recognised that such future assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases with time and, The Board conducted this review for the three-year period therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted to 31 December 2021, which is appropriate for the following with certainty.
reasons: in broking, over 70% of the FOB is due to be invoiced The Groups viability and going concern status is reviewed within the next three years: by the Audit Committee at each meeting.
The viability cash flow projections are carried out for a three-year assessment is reviewed annually by the Board.
period: historical average newbuilding process from inception to delivery is two to three years: existing hedging activities extend to 2020: pension scheme funding is subject to triennial valuations: and our external investment analysts provide estimates and forecasts for three years of market expectations for revenue and profit before taxation.
The Board has identified the principal risks that could impact the Group, see pages 66 to 69, together with mitigating factors and controls.
Based on their assessment of prospects and viability and the outcome of the sensitivity analyses, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending 31 December 2021.
70 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Viability analysis The analysis below seeks to identify viability events which are considered so material and which arise so suddenly as to bring into question the viability of the Group.
Risk Analysis Failure to achieve An acquisition or investment in a new business activity could result in a significant cash strategic objectives outflow, if not funded using debt and or equity.
Material transactions require shareholder approval along with all the necessary accompanying due diligence and working capital forecasts, to ensure that any such acquisitions investments are in the best interests of the shareholders and correspondingly support the continuing viability of the Group.
The Board reviews the performance of each division at each Board meeting to enable it to take the necessary action to ensure the achievement of strategic objectives.
Changes in the Broking contributes a considerable proportion to the Groups results.
We closely monitor broking industry technological changes which will impact the industry and are developing our own applications based on our reviews of clients broking requirements.
Economic factors Our markets are multi-cyclical and volatile.
Our industry has not seen a two-year period of volume decline since 1990.
The Group is consistently profitable, assisted by the FOB.
Sustained declines in world trade rarely occur overnight, so the business will be able to respond with appropriate measures.
Cyber risk and A successful attack could occur without warning and could affect the Groups ability data security to conduct business for a period of time.
Emails can be quickly rerouted or run on other, unaffected parts of our network.
In the event of an attack which causes the loss of the network, it is possible to reconstruct it using backups.
Assuming suitable hardware is available, key services can be restored within hours and all other services with days.
Whilst this might result in errors, omissions and possible claims, key business decisions can still occur using other forms of communication.
In addition, we utilise state-of-the-art training and internal processes to prevent any cyber attack breaching our defences.
Loss of key personnel No one global divisional team accounts for more than 20% of revenue or 30% of profit before taxation.
No individual has generated more than 5% of new business for the Group in 2018 or 2017.
Employee misuse of If a claim was brought against the Group, any amounts payable will only materialise after confidential information protracted negotiations and litigation.
Adverse movements The majority of the Groups revenues are in US dollars.
Over the last three years, in foreign exchange the USD GBP rate has reached lows of 1.22 and highs of 1.47.
The Group has hedges in place for 2019 and 2020, reducing the effect of any changes in the cross rate.
Financial loss arising The Group benefits from having thousands of clients spread around the world in a wide from failure of a client range of sectors.
The largest client balance accounts for less than 3% of the total to meet its obligations outstanding trade receivables balance at 31 December 2018.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to Going concern manage its risks effectively: its forecasts and projections, taking into account possible adverse changes in global markets, show that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Groups business activities, strategic objectives, business Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going performance and financial position, together with the factors concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
likely to affect its future development are set out in the In forming their view, the Directors considered the Groups strategic report on pages 12 to 71.
The Group has considerable prospects for a period of at least 12 months from the date financial resources available and a strong balance sheet.
on which the financial statements are approved.
See more on our financial performance and position on page 62.
