20 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Management Further details on our approach to risk the groups activities, business model and The group faces a number of risks management are set out on pages 71 and strategy remain unchanged.
As a result, in the normal course of business 72.
Risk management is overseen by the the principal risks and uncertainties which providing lending, deposit taking, board Risk Committee and its key areas the group faces and our approach to wealth management services of focus over the last financial year are mitigating them remain broadly consistent and securities trading.
We believe with prior years.
This consistency in the key risks facing the group include: the approach has underpinned the groups As set out in the strategy section on current economic uncertainty, especially track record of trading successfully and the previous pages, the protection the impact of the UKs departure from supporting our clients over many years.
of our established business model the EU and how that may impact our is a key strategic objective.
As a customers: the regulatory landscape The summary below should not be result the management of the risks and how it may impact some or all of our regarded as a complete and we face is central to everything we businesses: the competitive environment: comprehensive statement of all potential do.
The key elements to the way and maintaining operational resilience risks and uncertainties faced by the group we manage risk are as follows: in the face of growing cyber threats.
but reflect those which the group currently Adhering to our established and proven believes may have a significant impact on business model outlined on pages Risks and Uncertainties its performance and future prospects.
14 to 17: The following pages set out the principal Implementing an integrated risk risks and uncertainties which may impact management approach based on the the groups ability to deliver its strategy, concept of three lines of defence: and how we seek to mitigate these risks Setting and operating within clearly and the change in the perceived level of defined risk appetites, monitored with risk over the year.
While we constantly defined metrics and set limits.
monitor our portfolio for emerging risks, Key: No change Risk decreased Risk increased Risk uncertainty Mitigation Change We seek to minimise our exposure to Credit losses credit losses from our lending by: As a lender to small businesses and Applying strict lending criteria when individuals, the bank is exposed to credit testing the credit quality and covenant Bad debts have again remained low losses if customers are unable to repay of the borrower: during the year to 31 July 2018 while loans and outstanding interest and fees.
Maintaining consistent and other counterparty exposures are At 31 July 2018 the group had loans and conservative loan to value ratios broadly unchanged with the majority advances to customers amounting to with low average loan size and of our liquidity requirements and 7.3billion.
short-term tenors: surplus funding placed with the Lending on a predominantly secured Bank of England.
The group also has exposure to basis against identifiable and counterparties with which it places accessible assets: We continue to monitor closely the deposits or trades, and also has in place Maintaining rigorous and timely uncertainty over Brexit combined with a small number of derivative contracts to collections and arrears management rising consumer debt levels and hedge interest rate and foreign exchange processes: and potential increases in interest rates.
Operating strong control and This uncertainty, combined with the governance both within our lending low level of current credit losses, could businesses and with oversight by a increase the risk of higher credit losses central credit risk team.
Our exposures to counterparties are Further commentary on the credit mitigated by: quality of our loan book is outlined on Conservative management of our pages 34 to 37.
Further details on liquidity requirements and surplus loans and advances to customers and funding with 1.1 billion placed with debt securities held are in notes 11 the Bank of England: and 12 on pages 127 and 128 of the Continuous monitoring of the credit financial statements.
quality of our counterparties within approved set limits: and Our approach to credit risk Winterfloods trading relating to management and monitoring is exchange traded cash securities being outlined in more detail in note 28 settled on a delivery versus payment on page 149. basis.
Counterparty exposure and settlement failure monitoring controls are also in place.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 21 Risk uncertainty Mitigation Change The groups business model aims to Economic environment ensure that we are able to trade Any downturn in economic conditions successfully and support our clients in all may impact the groups performance economic conditions.
By maintaining a Economic uncertainty remains through: strong financial position we aim to be able elevated in our view.
While UK Lower demand for the groups products to absorb short-term economic economic performance has remained and services: downturns, continuing to lend when resilient in the last year, the current Lower investor risk appetite as a result competitors pull back and in doing so period of uncertainty is likely to 01 of financial markets instability: build long-term relationships by supporting continue, reflecting both ongoing Brexit Higher credit losses as a result of our clients when it really matters.
negotiations and wider global events.
customers inability to service debt and lower asset values on which loans are We test the robustness of our financial Further commentary on the attributes secured: and position by carrying out regular stress and resilience of the groups business Increased volatility in funding markets.
testing on our performance and financial model is shown on pages 14 to 17. position in the event of adverse economic conditions.
The group seeks to manage these Legal and regulatory risks by: 02 Failure to comply with existing legal, Providing straightforward and regulatory or tax requirements, or to react transparent products and services to Financial services businesses remain to changes to these requirements, may our clients: the subject of significant regulatory have negative consequences for the group.
Maintaining a prudent capital position scrutiny.
Minimum capital requirements with headroom to minimum capital are increasing as regulatory buffers are Failing to treat customers fairly, to requirements: phased in and remain subject to safeguard client assets or to provide The implementation of appropriate change by regulators.
advice and products which are in clients policies, standards and procedures and best interests has the potential to damage the use of risk-based monitoring In addition to the regulatory our reputation and may lead to legal or programmes to test adherence: uncertainties associated with Brexit, regulatory sanctions including litigation The provision of clear advice on legal there has been growing regulatory 03 and customer redress.
This applies to and regulatory requirements, including focus on consumer borrowing, current, past and future business.
in relation to the scope of regulatory particularly within Motor Finance, and permissions: on customer experience within the Similarly, changes to regulation and Responding in an appropriate, riskasset management industry.
taxation can impact our financial based and proportionate manner to any performance, capital and liquidity and changes to the legal and regulatory the markets in which we operate.
environment and those driven by any strategic initiatives: Investing in training for all staff including anti-money laundering, bribery and corruption, conduct risk, data protection and information security.
Additional tailored training for relevant employees is provided in key areas such as complaint handling: Maintaining constructive and positive relationships and dialogue with regulatory bodies and tax authorities: and Reviewing and approving new products and services through a clear governance and approval process.
22 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk uncertainty Mitigation Change The group continues to invest in its Technology and technology with investment projects operational resilience underway across a number of businesses in order to enhance our customer offering.
Industry, market and regulatory focus Robust, contemporary and secure on operational resilience has increased technology is fundamental to enabling The group has strong governance in during the year.
Recent incidences of the group to: place to oversee its major projects.
operational disruption to financial Provide a high quality customer services firms and corresponding experience across our businesses: We continue to strengthen our cyber customer impact have demonstrated Respond and adapt to emerging capabilities through further investment in the heightened importance of opportunities and risks: tools and technical expertise as well as operational resilience.
Protect client and company data: and specific activities designed to mitigate Counter the evolving cyber threat.
In the last year these This remains a key area of focus for have included a company-wide the group, particularly as the rate of Failure to keep up with changing awareness campaign, phishing exercises technology-driven disruption, including customer expectations or provide reliable, and crisis management simulations.
the impact and severity of cyber secure IT solutions has the potential to attacks, continues to increase.
We have in place, and regularly test, continue to invest in and upgrade our operational resilience capabilities, IT infrastructure and operating including crisis management, business practices.
This will continue to improve continuity and disaster recovery plans.
our customer proposition, simplify our technology architecture and enhance resilience to cyber attacks.
For further information on our response to cyber threats see page 75 of the Risk Committee Report.
The groups long track record of Competition successful trading is supported by a The group operates in competitive consistent and disciplined approach to markets and experiences high levels of pricing and credit quality, even in Despite high levels of competition competition from both traditional and new competitive markets.
This allows us to across each of our businesses, our players.
Currently we are experiencing lend profitably and continue to support approach remains unchanged as we particularly high levels of competition our customers at all stages in the focus on supporting our clients, within the Motor Finance business and financial cycle.
maintaining underwriting standards the intermediated part of the asset and investing in our business.
We build long-term relationships with our clients and intermediaries based on: Further commentary on the market Elevated levels of competition may impact The speed and flexibility of services: environment of the Banking division is the groups ability to write loans at its Our local presence and personal outlined on page 35.
Our business desired risk and return criteria, resulting in approach: model is set out on pages 14 to 17. lower new business volumes and loss of The experience of our people and market share.
subject matter experts: and Offering tailored and client-driven product solutions.
This differentiated approach and the consistency of our lending results in strong customer relationships and high levels of repeat business.
We are further protected by the diversity of our loan book and product portfolio, which provides resilience against competitive pressure in any one part of our markets.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 23 Risk uncertainty Mitigation Change The group seeks to attract, retain and Employees develop staff by: The quality and expertise of our Operating remuneration structures employees is critical to the success of which are competitive and recognise Our highly skilled people are likely to the group.
The loss of key individuals or and reward performance: be targeted by competitors but we are teams may have an adverse impact on Creating an inclusive environment that confident in our ability to retain key the groups operations and ability to nurtures development: employees.
Implementing succession planning for 01 key roles: Further detail on the employee survey Improving our talent pipeline via our and our investment in our people is graduate and school leavers outlined in the Sustainability Report on programmes, and training academy in pages 44 to 47. asset finance: Investing in training and development for all staff: and Delivering leadership development programmes that identify current and future leaders for the group.
02 Our funding approach is based on the Funding and liquidity principle of borrow long, lend short.
The The Banking divisions access to funding average maturity of funding allocated to remains key to support our lending the loan book was 23 months at 31 July While economic uncertainty always activities and the liquidity requirements 2018.
This compares to our weighted has the potential to impact funding of the group.
average loan maturity of 14 months.
markets, the group remains conservatively funded and continues Our funding is diversified both by source to have access to a wide range of and channel, and by type and tenor.
Liquidity in our Banking division is assessed on a daily basis to ensure 03 We have further diversified our funding adequate liquidity is held and remains during the year.
This diversity of funding readily accessible in stressed conditions.
combined with relatively long tenor when compared to the average At 31 July 2018 the groups funding duration of our lending means we are position was strong with total available well placed to meet any future market funding equal to 132% of the loan book.
This provides a prudent level of liquidity to support our lending activities.
Further commentary on funding and liquidity is provided on pages 30 and 31.
Further financial analysis of our funding is shown in note 19 on page 134 of the financial statements.
Our policy is to minimise interest rate risk Market risk by matching fixed and variable interest Market volatility impacting equity and rate assets and liabilities and using swaps fixed income exposures and or changes where appropriate.
The capital and The groups approach and the in interest and exchange rates have the reserves of the group do not have interest underlying risks are unchanged.
potential to impact the groups rate liabilities and as such are not hedged.
Further detail on the groups exposure Foreign exchange exposures are generally to market risk is outlined in note 28 on hedged using foreign exchange forwards pages 152 to 153 of the financial or currency swaps with exposures statements.
monitored daily against approved limits.
The sensitivity analysis on interest rate Winterflood is a market-maker providing exposures shown in note 28 on page liquidity to its clients in equity and fixed 152 demonstrates the limited level of income instruments.
Our trading is exposure to interest rate and foreign predominantly short term with most exchange movements.
transactions settling within two days.
Trading positions are monitored on a real time basis.
24 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 25 Our Culture 01 Prudence We take a prudent, robust and transparent approach 02 to risk management.
03 Photographed on location at Biggin Hill Heritage Hangar Ltd.
