Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risks spread through diversity CHANGE IN AREAS RISK IN YEAR RISK OF IMPACT PRE-MITIGATION MITIGATION Underperformance Cash flow Increased  portfolio with 49% of investment Profitability of the Groups properties being outside the UK, portfolio due to: Net asset value in two of the most stable economies in Europe.
Banking covenants Cyclical downturn in property market Changes in supply Rental income Increased 43% of UK income is derived from Government of space and or Cash flow tenants.
Minimal exposure to the type of occupier demand Vacancy rate tenant who may want to relocate from the Void running costs UK to elsewhere in Europe.
In-house asset Property values management enables management to Net asset value highlight and address tenant needs.
Property investment Downturn in market Cash flow Increased  portfolio with 49% due to increase Profitability of the Groups properties being outside the UK, in yields Net asset value in two of the most stable economies in Europe.
Banking covenants Poor Rental income Unchanged Asset management is not outsourced, asset management Cash flow property teams proactively manage Vacancy rate customers to ensure changing needs are met, Void running costs and review the status of all properties weekly.
Property values Written reports are submitted monthly to Net asset value senior management on, inter alia, vacancies, lease expiry profiles and progress on rent reviews.
Increasing Rental income Unchanged Continual assessment of all properties against building regulation Cash flow emerging regulatory changes.
and obsolescence Vacancy rate Net asset value Fit-out and refurbishment projects Profitability benchmarked against third-party schemes.
Sustainability Liquid resources Increasing energy Net asset value Unchanged Investment in energy efficient plant and costs and regulation Profitability building-mounted renewable energy systems Liquid resources 18 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CHANGE IN AREAS RISK IN YEAR RISK OF IMPACT PRE-MITIGATION MITIGATION Unavailability Cost of borrowing Unchanged The Group has a dedicated treasury team and of financing at Ability to invest relationships are maintained with some 26 acceptable prices or develop lenders, thus reducing credit and liquidity risk.
The exposure on refinancing debt is mitigated by the lack of concentration in maturities.
Adverse interest Cost of borrowing Increased 79% of borrowings are at fixed rates and 3% rate movements Cost of hedging are subject to interest rate caps.
Breach of Cost of borrowing Increased Borrowing agreements contain cure clauses borrowing covenants to rectify LTV breaches through part repayment of the loan or the depositing Funding of cash.
Foreign Net asset value Reduced Property investments are partially funded in currency exposure Profitability matching currency.
The difference between the value of the property and the amount of financing is generally unhedged and monitored on an ongoing basis.
Financial Loss of deposits Increased The Group has a dedicated treasury team counterparty Cost of and relationships are maintained with 26 credit risk rearranging facilities lenders, thus reducing credit and liquidity risk.
The exposure on refinancing debt is mitigated Incremental cost by the lack of concentration in maturities.
of borrowing Impact of UK exit Net asset value Increased 43% of rents in the UK are derived from from the EU Profitability central government departments.
On a macro Political and economic Availability of funding level, the Group operates in the three largest and most stable economies in Europe.
Failure to recruit Rental income Increased Staffing levels and recruitment are addressed suitable staff to Cash flow as part of investment decisions.
accommodate Vacancy rate investment expansion Void running costs Property values Net asset value People Failure to recruit, Profitability Unchanged The semi-annual appraisal process assesses develop and retain Net asset value capabilities and generates training plans.
staff and key Staff turnover and engagement is monitored executives with across the Group.
Succession planning is in the right skills place for all senior management roles.
Large scale terrorist Profitability Increased Business continuity and crisis management or cyber attack, Net asset value plans are in place.
Cyber penetration testing is Catastrophic environmental carried out periodically.
event disaster or power shortage The following is no longer considered one of the principal risks and uncertainties by the Board: Other Investments with the corporate bond portfolio having been reduced to 30 million and likely to fall further as more bonds are sold to finance property acquisitions.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 19
