Strategic Report Principal Risks The Groups principal risks have been updated to reflect changes in external factors Set the strategy and tone Review and assess risk management processes Design the and agree risk appetite system Board, Risk and Group Audit Committee Executive How we manage risk Assess Business Units Complete strategic and Sectors and risk reviews operational risk Specialist Functions Manage risk risk registers managed within the Groups appetite for risk.
The report from the How we manage risk Board also ensures that the Groups risk exposure Chairman of the Board Risk Committee is The Board sets the policy for managing risk in the remains appropriate and that this links to the presented on page 70. business.
It recognises the importance of having effective delivery of its strategic objectives.
effective processes and procedures for identifying, The Board has delegated responsibility for actively monitoring, mitigating and managing the The Board has ultimate accountability for the monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the financial and non-financial risks facing the Group.
execution of risk management and internal Groups risk management and internal control control systems, with the Group Executive systems to the Audit Committee.
Assurance over The Board regularly reviews the Group Principal responsible for the execution of risk management the effectiveness of these systems is provided Risks, which are derived from the detailed risks throughout the Group.
The Board Risk Committee through regular management reporting to the reported across the Group by businesses and 34 provides assurance regarding the management of Audit Committee.
For the Advanced Electronic functions, and satisfies itself that these risks are Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Solutions Sector CAES, which participates in basis for the Groups principal risk disclosure on Assessing viability classified US government programmes and so pages 36 to 41.
The starting point in assessing the prospects of operates under a US DoD SSA, specific assurances the Group is the annual strategic planning process.
and authorised assurance reports are given by The risks are regularly reviewed and exposure is The output of this process contains all of the key CAES management, which has its own Audit rated in terms of both inherent risk before underlying assumptions that will provide the most Committee.
The Groups Chief Executive Officer mitigations and current risk after mitigations, appropriate information on which to assess the and Chief Financial Officer both sit on the Board of which allows the Group to identify risks that are Groups viability.
the SSA, as described on page 59. heavily dependent on internal mitigating controls and to allocate resources appropriately.
Risks are In making its assessment of viability, the Board has The process for monitoring and controlling risk, also considered in comparison to an appropriate taken into account a number of different factors illustrated in the diagram on page 34, emphasises target exposure or appetite for risk which is to ensure that it fully reflects the Groups current ongoing evaluation and monitoring by the established by the Board.
The appetite for risk is position and future objectives.
The main factors management teams at each appropriate level: articulated as low, medium or high across the considered were : Business Unit, Sector, specialist function and at various elements of the risk framework.
higher appetite for areas of strategic risk including The Groups strategic objective, which is to the promotion of growth, for example in business continue the turnaround of the Groups The Group manages risk by operating a three lines and product portfolios, and in the strategic operational performance through focus on of defence risk and control model.
There is a low appetite for customers, delivery, cash and capital allocation.
compliance risk including zero tolerance for The Groups strategy is set out on pages 2 to 27.
The first line of defence consists of operational ethical issues such as bribery with a medium management implementing and maintaining appetite for operational and financial reporting The Group principal risks and their potential effective risk identification, reporting, risks.
The Groups controls, mitigation activities impacts.
These are described in detail in the management and internal control systems.
This and associated assurance measures reflect the principal risks section of this report on pages 36 ensures that risk management remains an integral appetite for risk for each position.
The Board considers the potential part of the Groups day-to-day operations and financial and operational impact of plausible facilitates the escalation of significant risks as and As a result of this process, several changes have downside scenarios resulting from these risk when they are identified.
been made to the Groups principal risks.
The risk events occurring individually or in combination.
relating to the Group operating within a volatile Consideration was also given to the occurrence The second line of defence consists of Group macroeconomic environment has been updated of other individual events that in their own right functions who support operational management to include further information with respect to the could have a material impact on the Groups in their own assessments and also maintain their effects on the Group of the United Kingdoms viability.
Whilst all risks are considered, the risks own risk registers.
The second line also includes expected exit from the European Union Brexit, which have the most significance with regard to the Group Executive, who regularly review the and the mitigating actions that are being taken as the Groups assessment of viability are those Group principal risks and other Group strategic a result.
The rating for the risk related to the relating to the Groups markets specifically the risks and who perform deep-dive reviews on Groups Mergers & Acquisitions activities has been KC-46 contract and its potential tax liabilities.
These lines of assurance also reduced to reflect the successful divestment of include the Groups ethics reporting system, which the AvComm and Wireless test and measurement The capacity of the Group to absorb enables employees to raise concerns over ethics businesses during 2018.
Finally, the rating for the additionalrisks which may arise in the future, and compliance matters.
risk related to the Groups defined benefit pension taking into account both financial and nonschemes has also been reduced to reflect the financial constraints.
Internal Audit, which forms the third line of completion of the triennial actuarial valuation of defence, is empowered to provide an independent the Cobham Pension Plan, and the associated Based on the consolidated financial impact of the assessment of the effectiveness of risk reduction in the deficit and the Groups required sensitivity analyses and associated mitigating management and internal control systems, as well deficit funding.
internal controls and risk management actions as to identify areas for improvement.
The Internal either now in place, or which could be Audit and Assurance function reports directly to Viability statement implemented, the Board has concluded that the the Audit Committee Chairman to ensure its The Board considers the Groups viability as part of Group will be able to maintain sufficient bank independence and objectivity.
its continuing programme of strategic planning, facilities to meet its funding needs over the three monitoring and managing risk.
The Board has year period.
Principal risk and uncertainties concluded that the most relevant time horizon for The Group maintains a register of principal risks this review is three years, taking into account the Confirmation of longer term viability and uncertainties covering the strategic, diversity in demand characteristics of the Groups Based upon the assessment of the principal risks operational, financial and compliance risks faced end markets.
These range from relatively long facing the Group and robust downside sensitivity by the Group.
The Groups risk management cycle businesses such as Aviation Services and analysis, all of which are described above and on framework is structured to ensure that risks are some US defense related businesses and air to air pages 36 to 41, the Board has a reasonable identified promptly by management teams to refuelling, which contain predominantly multiexpectation that the Group will be able to facilitate timely mitigation and are managed year contracts, to the less predictable, largely continue in operation and meet its liabilities as appropriately in support of the delivery of the commercial, shorter cycle businesses, such as they fall due over the period to the end of Groups strategic plan.
The risks identified are SATCOM, which typically operate with an order December 2021. documented and measured, including the book of a few months or less.
Data from this The Groups going concern statement is detailed process have been aggregated and used as the on page 33.
35 Strategic Report Principal Risks continued Title Risks and Impact Key Mitigating Controls The Group operates Cobhams revenue and costs are dependent on a complex mix of macroeconomic, fiscal, Review of near and long term market trends within a volatile commercial and strategic defence and security factors, arising from global defence security conductedaspart of the Groups annual strategic planningprocess toensure that actual and anticipated macroeconomic and commercial markets within which it participates.
environment impacts from macroeconomic risks are minimised and 38% of the Groups revenue is derived directly or indirectly from the US Government.
Despite the agreement of a budget before the commencement of the fiscal year, US KPIs defence spending levels are difficult to predict beyond the near term in part due to the Periodic reviews of externally sourced market demand data Organic revenue recent mid-term election results resulting in a change in control of Congress, as shown are conducted, with subsequent re-forecasting and bythe recent US Federal Government shutdown.
adjustment of internal planning in line with market demand.
Underlying operating margin 26% of the Groups revenue is derived directly or indirectly from non-US governments.
A culture of continuous improvement should enable the While heightened regional security tensions have led to an increase in demand for the Group to improve operating performance, while reducing Underlying EPS Groups capabilities and know-how, the general level of public deficits and indebtedness costs.
This should enable the Group to grow market share Operating cash remains high, whichthe Group expects will act to limit growth in defence and security and remain competitive in the face of volume declines or conversion investment.
The Group also benefited from revenue driven by urgent operational price pressures, whilst retaining flexibility to adjust the On-time delivery requirements for air to ground systems in 2018. costbase appropriately to changing market conditions.
Voluntary staff The Group also has some remaining exposure to commercial markets which have Regular meetings are held with key customers to ensure new turnover marketdevelopments and technology requirements experienced downturns in response to weakness incommodity markets such as oil and gas, iron and steel, and precious metals.
Government and commercial customers are increasingly focused on pricing as budgetary The Group uses financial instruments where applicable to pressure requires them to do more with less, even where headline budgets are expected assist in the management of foreign exchange and interest toincrease, in areas such as US defence.
Protectionism by governments is also growing rate risks, principally forward exchange contracts and inresponse to the perceived effects of globalisation on national economies.
If the Group does not anticipate changes in the various end markets which it serves A Group Brexit committee has been established to consider including deterioration in demand or a fundamental shift in how customers procure risks and propose mitigations.
These include the preparation products and services, changes in input costs, and changes in other macroeconomic of Brexit impact analyses, including potential effects on factors such as exchange rates and interest rates, its business, results of operations and both customers and suppliers.
financial condition could be adversely affected.
Buffer inventory has been put in place where appropriate to mitigate any shortage of key components.
The UK is set to exit the European Union on 29 March 2019.
The terms of withdrawal, any transition period and the future trade relationships, customs arrangements and regulatory Analysis of potential options to shift production away from framework between the UK, the EU, and other countries are being negotiated, with limited the UK and EU has been undertaken and contingency plans progress being made in the remaining time left to conclude a deal.
The likelihood of a no put in place.
deal Brexit has substantially increased following recent UK Parliamentary votes to approve Appropriate European Aviation Safety Agency 3rd country the negotiated withdrawal terms.
licences have been obtained where required.
Registration, The value of the Groups revenue potentially impacted is approximately 79m from the UK Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals to the EU and 23m from the EU to the UK.
Within the supply chain, Cobhams UK REACH certificates are being applied for where appropriate.
businesses spend approximately 33m with EU suppliers, and its EU businesses spend 12m with UK suppliers, of which 11m is from Cobhams UK businesses.
Depending on the ultimate outcome, Cobham may incur additional costs and other operational issues associated with the transfer of goods between the UK and the EU and third countries as a result of new tariffs, customs delays, the need to meet multiple standards and increased regulatory complexity.
These additional costs could include the need for extra inventory, new or additional certifications and changes to its manufacturing strategy.
Brexit could also require the Group to modify supplier and customer contracts and we may lose access to research or other funding from EU institutions.
The worst case scenario could see a no-deal Brexit, which could lead to severe impacts arising from material shortages throughout the Groups supply chain.
Current ExposureHigh Target ExposureMedium Risk Trend compared to 2017Increased Timing of ImpactMonths due to potential Brexit impacts 36 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Title Risks and Impact Key Mitigating Controls The characteristics Many of the end markets served by Cobham are highly competitive.
The Group relies on its The Group focuses on areas within those markets in which it of the Groups ability to win business ahead of its competitors through a combination of differentiated has deep customer understanding and technical expertise markets and the technology, contractual terms and price.
There is no assurance that the Group will be able so reducing the likelihood of an emergent technology or resulting to maintain its current market share with respect to its products or services due to the competitor affecting the competitive position.
contractual development of competing technologies, the periodic retender and renewal of existing Fixed price bids and projects are reviewed for early environment are contracts, the inability to develop existing products due to resource constraints or the detection and management of issues which may result in highly complex emergence of new competitors.
cost over-run or excessive delivery risk.
The Group has a number of contracts which span more than one accounting period, some The Groups Lifecycle Management process is applied to KPIs of which have a fixed price.
If the Group is unable to or fails to accurately estimate the significant contracts, to identify and mitigate cost and Organic revenue resources and time necessary to meet contractual milestones, the Group may be subject to schedule over-runs or other issues.
claims for damages for late delivery.
If the costs required for the delivery of such contracts Underlying operating A Contract Policy is used which is intended to ensure that are higher than those expected, as a result of the performance of new or developed margin the Group enters into contracts with an appropriate balance products, schedule over-runs or other external factors such as inflation resulting in an Underlying EPS of risk and reward.
increase in input costs, which cannot be passed on to a customer, the profitability of a Operating cash The Groups bid and approval process is applied to all bids, contract may be reduced, or result in it becoming loss making.
conversion contracts and development programmes to ensure that a The timing of order receipt from customers could have a material impact on the Groups consistent approach is followed.
performance in a given reporting period, as the amounts payable under such contracts can There are appropriately trained personnel within the be individually substantial.
business to ensure that the contract policy is adhered to, The Groups existing contractual arrangements are subject to periodic renewal and and that delays to negotiating and agreeing contracts are retender.
There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to successfully renew such minimised.
Training is undertaken for key staff with contracts.
For example, the contract with the UK MoD for the provision of airborne responsibility for negotiating contracts.
operational readiness the 020 contract expires at the end of 2019 and is in the process of The Groups exposure to individual suppliers is being retendered, with a number of competing teams bidding for this work.
reviewedregularly to ensure that the level of reliance Some of the Groups contracts have terms which are not unusual in the Groups markets, .
that provide for unlimited liabilities for the Group or termination rights for the customer and, in some cases, damages and consequential loss exposure.
Many of the Groups contracts are also across international borders, leading to increased complexity in interpretation.
The contract for aerial refuelling systems for the KC-46 aircraft is the Groups most significant example of this type of contract.
The Group is reliant on third party manufacturers and key suppliers, to whom certain manufacturing and engineering functions are outsourced.
This can result in a reduction in control over capacity allocation and quality, and may result in disputes regarding the ownership of intellectual property.
The occurrence of any or all of these factors may result in the financial performance of the Group being impaired, through reductions in revenue, increased costs or the emergence of unexpected liabilities.
Current Exposure High Target Exposure Medium Risk Trend compared to 2017 Increased Timing of Impact Months Shortage of Key to execution of the Groups strategic plan is the recruitment, development and Workforce planning is undertaken to ensure that skill gaps appropriate skills retention of sufficient personnel with the appropriate skills to meet the needs of the are identified and plans are established to close them.
and talent business, in engineering, technical and other specialist and managerial roles.
These are Compensation planning and review process is undertaken amongst the most sought after skills within the worldwide labour market.
and takes into account any key shortages.
KPIs This is exacerbated by nationality restrictions in certain of its markets, which prevent Succession planning has been enhanced to ensure that a Voluntary staff theGroup from accessing a worldwide talent pool.
Insufficient availability of personnel pipeline of suitable candidates for key roles is maintained.
turnover willgenerate a resource gap that will impair the Groups ability to deliver against its Development programmes are undertaken to ensure that strategicplan.
internal candidates develop the skills and experience Employee retention has been and may continue to be challenging, and the Group must necessary to undertake more senior roles within the continue to engage with its employees and with focus on its strategy and goals.
Following Brexit, the ability of the Group to continue to recruit EU nationals to work in the An upgraded Human Resources information system is being UK may also be reduced.
implemented to ensure that talent gaps are identified and The resulting talent gap could lead to a reduced ability to execute on growth plans and resolved quickly keyprogrammes, resulting in reduced customer confidence and an adverse impact on See the CR&S section on pages 42 to 49 for further theGroups financial position and financial outlook.
information on talent management actions.
Current Exposure High Target Exposure Medium Risk Trend compared to 2017 No change Timing of Impact Months 37 Strategic Report Principal Risks continued Title Risks and Impact Key Mitigating Controls Project and The Group designs, develops and delivers products and services that are often customised, Where fully deployed, the Groups Lifecycle management Programme utilising complex technologies and outsourced supply chains.
It does this through fixed framework contributes to ensuring that key contract and Management is price contracts that can be long term in nature and through internally funded PV projects programme management risks are appropriately controlled.
noteffective where it exploits identified market opportunities.
Development projects can take place Investment in strengthening our quality management is being across a wide range of markets and technologies.
The decision to outsource, and the made to improve both in house and supply chain performance.
KPIs selection of the appropriate suppliers can add additional risk to programmes if the supply On-time delivery is a Group Key Performance Indicator.
chain is not properly managed.
Organic revenue A project and programme watch list has been established The Group employs a system of project and programme management known as Underlying operating toensure increased focus is given to large and technically LifecycleManagement to ensure that all such projects are managed within a common margin complex projects.
The current deployment of Lifecycle Management across the Group is at Underlying EPS Continuing professional development of project managers varying levelsof maturity.
is undertaken against agreed standards and identified Operating cash Cobham is currently undertaking a number of significant development projects, notably the development needs.
conversion aerial refuelling development programmes within the Mission Systems Sector and the On-time delivery Aviator S system within the Communications and Connectivity Sector.
In addition, all Sectors are increasingly bidding on more complex programmes which require a higher level of integration, such as for the replacement of the 020 contract within the Aviation Services Sector.
Failure by the Group to execute or deliver these or other projects or programmes, and to deliver them concurrently in the same locations for example in Wimborne, UK gives rise to the risk of increased costs, damages, product liability claims, litigation and other financial liabilities, reduced future profitability and reputational risk.
Poor operational performance could also lead to customers withholding new and existing business from the Group.
Certain programmes on which the Group has won positions are scheduled to increase production tomeet customer requirements, for example the San Diego facility in the US.
The growth in production required puts added pressure on quality management and adds additional risk to on-time delivery, contractual performance and reputation.
Current ExposureHigh Target ExposureLow Risk Trend compared to 2017Increased Timing of ImpactMonths Customer It is crucial to the Groups current and future development that the expectations of its Customer focus has been a key objective since 2017 and expectations of customers are fully understood and fulfilled, in areas such as the development of new thiswill continue.
service, quality products, the delivery of existing products in accordance with customer requirements Monthly tracking of on-time delivery is undertaken andinnovation andthe support provided in respect of products that have already been delivered.
acrossthe Group with target levels for all businesses.
arenot met The Group is increasingly bidding on programmes which involve more complex customer Improvements in internal project and programme requirements.
If the Group fails to understand the future requirements of its customers, or management capabilities have been made to ensure KPIs deliver solutions that meet the customers needs, failure to win new contracts and difficulty technical solutions remain closely aligned with Organic revenue in renewing existing contracts may result.
Underlying operating In addition, the Group may suffer financial penalties and possibly the loss of existing An increased level of senior engagement with key margin contracts.
Customer pricing pressure may also intensify where customers perceive that the customers has been implemented to ensure that Group is not providing a level of service that is commensurate with expectations.
Underlying EPS customerrequirements are fully understood.
Operating cash conversion On-time delivery Current Exposure Medium Target Exposure Low Risk Trend compared to 2017 No change Timing of Impact Months Business change As part of its turnaround strategy, Cobham is undertaking several business change Project objectives, schedules and budgets have been programmes are programmes that are important to the Groups future prospects, in areas such as the defined and are monitored to ensure that successful notsuccessfully implementation of improved Information Technology systems, increased production delivery of projects can bemeasured.
executed atcertain Business Units and the establishment of a more effective culture throughout Significant internal projects are being managed under a theGroup.
common governance framework using the Lifecycle KPIs If these programmes are not successfully executed, the Groups ability to deliver its Management process toensure that resource requirements Organic revenue strategic objectives will be impaired, which could lead to reputational damage, are balanced and facilitate delivery against agreed deteriorations in financial performance, loss of customer confidence and reduced success objectives, schedules andbudgets.
Underlying operating in winning new business from existing customers.
margin Underlying EPS Operating cash conversion On-time delivery Current Exposure Medium Target Exposure Low Risk Trend compared to 2017 No change Timing of Impact Months 38 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Title Risks and Impact Key Mitigating Controls Occurrence of an Cobhams businesses could be impacted by natural disasters or other external events Programmes have been implemented for the Groups larger event leading to a affecting its operational locations, by significant events in the supply chain or by IT systems manufacturing locations that seek to meet or exceed best significant business failures including from cyber attack, rendering critical systems or manufacturing locations practice loss prevention guidance.
Employees are trained in interruption unable to function.
In some cases this can be exacerbated by the historic selection of key relevant loss prevention procedures.
suppliers which has created significant reliance within the supply chain.
The Group maintains major incident IT failure business KPIs Unscheduled interruption to business activities would result in the inability to deliver continuity plans.
IT security and capability is monitored Organic revenue products to customers in accordance with their expectations.
This would result in reduced andstrengthened when needed.
profits, loss of customer satisfaction, potential cost outlays, and reputational impact.
Underlying operating Appropriate insurance cover is maintained, and insurers and margin other third party experts are consulted to ensure operating infrastructure and processes include robust risk Underlying EPS improvement activities.
Operating cash See the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability conversion sectionon pages 42 to 49 for further details on mitigating On-time delivery actions against business interruption risk arising from Lost work case environmental factors.
incident rate Current Exposure Medium Target Exposure Low Risk Trend compared to 2017 No change Timing of Impact Days Weeks Failure to comply Cobham operates in highly regulated environments and is subject to the laws, regulations Internal policies and procedures ensure the Group remains with laws and and restrictions of many jurisdictions, notably including those of the US and the UK as well in compliance with all legal requirements and regulations, regulations as many other countries in which it operates.
and continues to drive a culture that ensures that ethical, environmental, and health and safety considerations are These include but are not limited to anti-bribery provisions, import and export controls, tax, KPIs embedded in all of the Groups activities.
government contracting rules, human rights, environmental, health and safety and data Organic revenue protection regulations.
A lack of understanding of legal and regulatory restrictions in force Regular review and audit of policies and procedures, in the jurisdictions in which it operates could lead to the Group being in contravention of including those procedures that relate to the use of sales Underlying operating applicable laws or regulations.
and marketing representatives, anti-bribery and margin anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, whistleblowing, and Sanctions for failure by the Group, its sales intermediaries, or others acting on its behalf to Underlying EPS investigation of ethics and compliance concerns, along with comply with laws, regulations and restrictions could include fines, penalties, legal claims, or Operating cash Cobhams Code of Business Conduct.
suspension of the Group from future government contracts for a period of time, as well as conversion having a potentially significant impact on the Groups reputation.
Such sanctions could also Mandatory training is undertaken by all employees on a Lost work case variety of compliance related subjects including US have an impact on the Groups financial position and future operations.
incident rate Government contracting and anti-bribery and corruption.
Safety is a key priority throughout the Group, particularly within the Aviation Services Sector which conducts flying operations in support of our customers.
Safety is carefully See the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability section managed through Group-wide processes, but the Group recognises that an accident could on pages 42 to 49 for further details on human rights, have a major impact on its employees, customers and other stakeholders.
Such an incident environmental, and health and safety actions.
could also result in legal claims, financial damage and reputational loss.
Cobhams US defence business is managed through an SSA, which covers the CAES sector, the terms of which are agreed with the US Government.
The SSA is intended to ensure that this US defence business is not subject to the effects of Foreign Ownership, Control or Influence FOCI.
Further details of the SSA can be found on page 59.
The terms of the SSA may reduce the ability for the Group to effectively manage its US defence operations due to reduced visibility into the business and its performance.
Current Exposure Medium Target Exposure Zero Risk Trend compared to 2017 Increased Timing of Impact Days Weeks Governance The Groups organisational structure delegates some operational autonomy and A streamlined governance framework has been framework is poorly responsibility to its Business Units, including the negotiation and performance of the implemented to facilitate appropriate risk taking, and drive constructed and Groups contracts with its customers.
The level of authority that has been delegated may improvements in performance through application of implemented not be fully consistent with the risks within the Groups operations, leading to the over or effective governance principles.
under control of those risks.
The delegation of authorities is regularly reviewed and KPIs This could lead to exposure to unacceptable risks in areas requiring conservatism, issued to ensure that the degree of delegation is Organic revenue potentially damaging the Groups reputation and shareholder value.
Conversely, it may also commensurate with the management capabilities within prevent the acceptance of risks required in order to grow the Groups business, hindering each Business Unit, Sector and specialist function.
Underlying operating the ability to deliver an acceptable return on shareholder investment.
margin A governance committee has been established to regularly The Group has a capital structure that is partially funded through borrowings from banks review and update the Groups policies.
Underlying EPS and other financial institutions.
The associated banking agreements incorporate financial Operating cash covenants and other provisions, breach of which may lead to potential defaults and costs conversion associated with obtaining temporary waivers or the requirement to reduce debt through Voluntary staff divestment or additional capital raising.
turnover Current Exposure Medium Target Exposure Low Risk Trend compared to 2017 No change Timing of Impact Years 39 Strategic Report Principal Risks continued Title Risks and Impact Key Mitigating Controls Information Cobham relies upon its IT systems to store and process its data securely.
In part due to the Technical monitoring and prevention technologies are assurance, risk and nature of its business, the Group faces various security threats, including cyber security introduced as required to ensure compliance with customer security measures attacks from computer hackers, viruses, malicious code and internal threats intended to and industry standards.
are not able to gain access to proprietary or sensitive information, as well as threats to the physical security Assessment of IT policy compliance is undertaken on a prevent data loss or of its ITfacilities and infrastructure.
quarterly basis to ensure that the processes and procedures in corruption Although various bespoke and industry standard procedures and controls are utilised to place are reflective of all legal and regulatory requirements.
monitor and mitigate exposure to these threats, the impact of any future attack cannot Constant monitoring of security events is conducted by KPIs bepredicted with any certainty.
We continue to seek the maximum protection possible both internal resources and trusted external third parties.
Organic revenue against any compromise of the security of intellectual property, customer andemployee Primary and secondary data centres have been established data and the corruption of embedded product data and data for externalservices.
Underlying operating to provide contingency.
However, due to the evolving nature of these security threats the effectiveness of any such margin Reviews are conducted jointly with customers to assess and protection cannot be guaranteed.
Underlying EPS validate the effectiveness of our controls.
Significant data breaches or losses could also lead to litigation and fines for breaking data Operating cash privacy law and other regulations.
This would result in reputational damage and potentially conversion the loss of new and existing contracts.
Current Exposure Medium Target Exposure Low Risk Trend compared to 2017 No change Timing of Impact Days Weeks Taxation liabilities Cobham is subject to corporate and other tax rules in the jurisdictions in which it conducts External advisors are used to assist in the review of all major may be larger than its business operations.
Changes in tax rates, tax relief and tax laws, changes in practice or transactions that may have potential tax implications.
anticipated interpretation of the law by the relevant tax authorities, increasing challenges by relevant External advisors also review significant tax computations tax authorities, or any failure to manage tax risks adequately could result in increased prior to submission.
KPIs charges, financial loss, penalties and reputational damage, which may materially adversely Known areas of tax risk, such as transfer pricing, are affect the Groups financial condition and operations.
In addition, tax enforcement has Underlying EPS monitored by the Group and appropriate controls are become a higher priority for many tax authorities in jurisdictions in which the Group implemented where applicable.
operates, which has led to an increase in tax audits, enquiries and challenges, or the testing The Group has established and published its tax strategy, in through litigation of the boundaries of the correct interpretation of legislation.
Tax accordance with applicable regulations.
authorities may also actively pursue additional taxes based on retrospective changes to tax laws and the Group may have disagreements with tax authorities which could result in a material restatement to the tax position.
For example, the availability of interest deductions on one of the Groups internal financing arrangements, principally as a result of various US acquisitions, has been under challenge forsome time.
Over the life of this financing arrangement, the aggregate tax value of the interest deductions amounted to approximately 130m.
If decided adversely to the Group, this could lead to increased tax liabilities in excess of those provided in the Groups Balance Sheet and result in a substantial tax payment becoming due.
The Group is actively involved in attempting to resolve this matter ahead of a Tribunal hearing, which is scheduled in autumn 2019.
These issues are set out in more detail in note 7 to the Group Financial Statements.
In addition, the European Commission EC has opened an investigation into the UKs controlled foreign company CFC rules.
The CFC rules levy a charge on foreign entities controlled by the UK that are subject to a lower rate of tax, however, there is currently an exemption available for 75% of this charge if the activities being undertaken by the CFC relate to financing.
The EC is investigating whether this exemption is in breach of EU State Aid rules, but it is too early to assess what the conclusions of this investigation might be.
If there was an adverse final determination on the UKs CFC legislation, the Group estimates that its maximum exposure on this matter is approximately 60m.
An adverse outcome could also result in potential damage to the Groups reputation.
Current Exposure High Target Exposure Low Risk Trend compared to 2017 No change Timing of Impact Months 40 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Title Risks and Impact Key Mitigating Controls Value creating The Group is not currently seeking acquisition opportunities and as a result is not in a The focus is currently on operational execution, which may Mergers and position to execute potentially value enhancing transactions.
result in the Group not being active in the Mergers & Acquisitions activity Acquisitions market with the possible exception of smaller In addition, following the Aeroflex acquisition undertaken in 2014, the ability of the Group is not identified and bolt-on acquisitions.
to effectively integrate acquisitions into existing operations is also uncertain.
or executed The Group is working to develop an M&A capability to These factors could result in the Group failing to effectively maintain a robust M&A pipeline ensure that it is able to undertake acquisition activity with and as a result the Group may not be in a position to capitalise on time sensitive KPIs effective integration at an appropriate time in the future.
This could cause a failure to unlock Cobhams full potential or create optimal Organic revenue shareholder value.
Underlying EPS Current ExposureLow Target ExposureLow Risk Trend compared to 2017Decreased Timing of ImpactYears The deficit within The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes which are closed to The trustees of the Cobham Pension Plan seek to ensure the Cobham Pension new entrants and future benefit accrual, the largest of which is the Cobham Pension Plan in that the Schemes assets and liabilities remain matched.
The Plan may change the UK.
This pension scheme is in deficit, and this deficit may change in the future in most significant element of this is the acquisition of response to changes in the value of assets and the present value of liabilities.
insurance policies that match assets with existing liabilities.
KPIs The most recent triennial valuation of the CPP has recently been completed, and showed a Underlying EPS significant reduction in the level of the deficit to approximately 35m.
According to the resulting schedule of contributions agreed with the Scheme trustees, the Groups Underlying operating contributions to the CPP have been reduced to 6m per annum, effective September 2018. margin The Trustees view of the strength of the Company covenant is also taken into account in Operating cash the setting of recovery plans to address the deficit.
conversion Current ExposureLow Target ExposureLow Risk Trend compared to 2017Decreased Timing of ImpactYears 41
