STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT Identifying and managing risk The Board continues to take a proactive approach to recognising, assessing andmitigating risk with the aim of protecting its employees and consumers andsafeguarding the interests of the Company and its shareholders in the constantlychanging environment in which it operates.
As set out in the Corporate Governance section in the Annual The Group has significant operations and a substantial employee Report, the Group has policies and procedures in place to ensure base in the USA, where the current administration has initiated that risks are properly identified, evaluated and managed at the broad policy changes including federal taxes and proposed tariffs on appropriate level within the business.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act introduced substantial and wide-ranging changes but further clarification and The identification of risks and opportunities, the development of regulation may have an effect on future tax charges.
The Board is action plans to manage the risks and maximise the opportunities, monitoring developments and will continue to assess the impact of and the continual monitoring of progress against agreed key any changes.
performance indicators KPIs are integral parts of the business process and core activities throughout the Group.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the Board has taken into consideration the principal The tables on pages 36 and 37 set out the principal risks and risks inthe context of determining whether to adopt the going uncertainties facing the business at the date of this Report.
These concern basis of accounting and when assessing the prospects of have been subject to robust assessment and review.
They do not the Company for the purpose of preparing the viability statement.
comprise all of the risks that the Group may face and are not listed Thegoing concern and viability statements can be found on page34 in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not of the Strategic Report.
presently known to management, or deemed to be less material at the date of this Report, may also have an adverse effect on the The Group faces a number of operational risks on an ongoing basis Group.
As a global business operating in countries and regions with such as litigation and financial including liquidity and credit risk diverse economic and political conditions, the Groups operations and some wider risks, for example, environmental and reputational.
and earnings may be adversely affected by political or economic Additionally, there are risks such as those relating to the eurozone instability, including instability caused by the implementation of the economy, pensions, and acquisitions and investments which vary UKs decision to exit the European Union Brexit and political in importance depending on changing conditions.
All risks disclosed reform in the USA.
in previous years can be found in the annual reports available on our website at www.
We recognise that these risks Following Brexit there is significant uncertainty about the process of remain important to the business and they are kept under review.
withdrawal from the European Union, the timeframe, the outcome of However, we have focused the disclosures on pages 36 and 37 on negotiations about future arrangements between the UK and the those risks that are currently considered to be more significant to European Union, and the period for which existing European Union theGroup.
laws for member states continue to apply to the UK.
The Board views the potential impact of Brexit as an integral part of its principal risks rather than as a stand-alone risk.
We have identified a potential impact on our food supply chain and labour force, and we are taking actions to assess and mitigate against any impact.
It is not yet clear what the full impact will be whilst negotiations continue to take place.
As the process of Brexit evolves, the Board will continue to assess the impact of any resulting changes and the extent to which they affect the Group.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 35
