PRINCIPAL RISKS RISK CHANGE DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION 2017 2018 HEALTH AND SAFETY The health and safety of our consumers and our people is at the heart of what we do.
We are focused on All management meetings throughout the Group feature a health and safety update The Group has policies, procedures and standards in place to ensure compliance HEALTH AND SAFETY protecting peoples wellbeing, as well as avoiding serious business interruption and potential damage to our as one of their first substantive agenda items.
with legal obligations and industry standards.
Compass feeds millions of consumers and employs thousands of people around the world every Health and safety improvement KPIs are included inthe annual bonus plans for each The safety and quality of our global supply chain are assured through compliance day.
Therefore, setting the highest standards for food hygiene and safety is paramount.
of the business management teams.
against a robust set of standards which are regularly reviewed, audited and upgraded as necessary to improve supply chain visibility and product integrity.
CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS Our business relies on securing and retaining a diverse range ofclients.
We have strategies which strengthen our long term relationships with our clients and Our business model is structured so that we are not reliant on one particular SALES AND RETENTION consumers based on quality, value and innovation.
sector, geography or group of clients.
Each year, the Group could bid for a large number of opportunities.
A rigorous tender review process is in place, which includes a critical assessment of BIDDING contracts to identify potential risks including social and ethical risks and rewards, prior to approval at an appropriate level in the organisation.
The Groups operating companies contract with a large number of clients.
Failure to comply with the terms Processes are in place to ensure that the services delivered to clients are of an SERVICE DELIVERY AND of these contracts, including proper delivery of services, could lead to loss of business and or claims.
appropriate standard and comply with the required contract terms and conditions.
CONTRACTUAL COMPLIANCE We operate in a highly competitive marketplace.
The levels of concentration and outsource penetration vary We aim to minimise this by continuing to promote our differentiated propositions and COMPETITION by country and by sector.
Some markets are relatively concentrated with two or three key players.
Others are by focusing our strengths, such as flexibility in our cost base, quality, value of service highly fragmented and offer significant opportunities for consolidation and penetration of the self-operated and innovation.
Aggressive pricing from our competitors could cause a reduction in our revenues and margins.
PEOPLE Failure to attract and recruit people with the right skills at all levels could limit the success of the Group.
The Group aims to mitigate this risk by efficient, time critical resource management, RECRUITMENT The Group faces resourcing challenges in some of its businesses due to a lack of industry experience mobilisation of existing, experienced employees within the organisation, improved amongst candidates and appropriately qualified people, and the seasonal nature of some of our business.
use of technology and through offering training and development programmes.
The increase is due to economic and political conditions where a combination of high employment and a shortage in the resource pool has made the labour market more competitive.
Retaining and motivating the best people with the right skills, at all levels of the organisation, The Group has established training, development, performance management and The Group has a number of well established initiatives which help us to monitor RETENTION AND MOTIVATION is key to the long term success of the Group.
reward programmes to help retain, develop and motivate our best people.
the level of engagement and to respond to our peoples needs.
ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT Some sectors of our business could be susceptible to adverse changes in economic conditions With the variable and flexible nature of our cost base, it is generally possible to ECONOMY and employment levels.
contain the impact of these adverse conditions.
Continued worsening of economic conditions, e. g. trade sanctions, have increased the risk to the business in some jurisdictions.
Our objective is always to deliver the right level of service in the most efficient way.
An increase in the cost of As part of our MAP framework, we seek to manage inflation by continuing to drive COST INFLATION labour, for example, minimum wages in the USA and UK, or food, especially in countries such as Brazil, greater efficiencies through menu management, supplier rationalisation, labour could constitute a risk to our ability to do this.
scheduling and productivity, and with the increased use of technology.
Cost indexation in our contracts also gives us the contractual right to review pricing with Increases in inflation have intensified cost pressures in some locations.
We are a global business operating in countries andregions with diverse economic and political conditions.
The Group remains vigilant to future changes presented by emerging markets or POLITICAL STABILITY Our operations and earnings may be adversely affected by political or economic instability caused, for fledgling administrations and we try to anticipate and contribute to important changes example, by the UKs decision to leave the EU.
This may put pressure on our food supply chain and UK in public policy.
We are working with our suppliers to assess the impact of Brexit on our supply chain.
We are also working on our recruitment and retention strategies to mitigate any impact on our labour supply.
COMPLIANCE AND FRAUD Ineffective compliance management with increasingly complex laws and regulations, or evidence The Groups zero tolerance based Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics continue to The Groups procedures include regular operating COMPLIANCE AND FRAUD of fraud, could have an adverse effect on the Groups reputation and could result in an adverse impact govern all aspects of our relationships with our stakeholders.
All alleged breaches of reviews, underpinned by a continual focus on ensuring the effectiveness of on the Groups performance if significant financial penalties are levied or a criminal action is brought the Codes, including any allegations of fraud, are investigated.
against the Company or its directors.
Regulation and compliance risk is also considered as part of our annual business planning process.
As a Group, we seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
In We manage and control these risks in a proactive manner and in doing so exercise INTERNATIONAL TAX doing so, we act in compliance with the relevant laws and disclosure requirements.
However, the our judgement and seek appropriate advice from reputable professional firms.
Tax increasingly complex international corporate tax environment and an increase in audit activity from tax risks are assessed as part of the Groups formal governance process and are authorities means that the potential for tax uncertainties and disputes has increased.
We note in particular reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
the policy efforts being led by the EU and the OECD which may have a material impact on the taxation of all international businesses.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY The digital world creates many risks for a global business including technology failures, loss of We seek to assess and manage the maturity of our enterprise risk and security The Group relies on a variety of IT systems in order to manage and INFORMATION SYSTEMS confidentialdata and damage to brand reputation, through, for example, the increased and infrastructure and our ability to effectively defend against current and future cyber deliverservices and communicate with our clients, consumers, suppliers AND TECHNOLOGY instantaneoususe of social media.
risks by using analysis tools and experienced professionals to evaluate and mitigate andemployees.
Disruption caused by the failure of key software applications or underlying equipment or communication We are focused on the need to maximise the effectiveness of our information networks, could delay day-to-day decision making, management reporting and efficient product delivery.
systems and technology as a business enabler and to reduce both cost and exposure as a result.
Increased use of technology has increased the potential exposure to cyber crime.
PURPOSE PERFORMANCE PEOPLE INCREASED RISK STATIC RISK 36 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK CHANGE DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION 2017 2018 HEALTH AND SAFETY The health and safety of our consumers and our people is at the heart of what we do.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 37
