Principal risks and uncertainties Mitigation that helps us to deliver our strategy 4.
Risk identification and impact Our risk governance model The Group Risk Committee reviews our principal risks, which are the barriers to The Board meeting our strategic goals, on an annual basis.
This top-down approach includes assessing whether emerging risks are significant enough to warrant inclusion in the Group Risk Log.
If so, the likelihood of Nomination Remuneration Executive Audit occurrence and potential impact are Committee Committee Committee Committee considered and the risk is subject to regular review.
The impact of existing risks is also reviewed.
The Group Risk Log is reviewed by First line Second line Third line both the Audit Committee and the Board.
The of defence of defence of defence key risks are considered further in relation Risk ownership and application Compliance, oversight Independent assurance to the long-term Viability Statement.
of internal controls and assurance functions Group Internal Audit Lower-level risks are identified and analysed through the Group Operating Business Risk Assessment process, the results of which are Country-specific Management Group Legal Compliance Group Risk Committee also reviewed by the Group Risk Committee.
Group Business Development Group Information Assurance This includes validating them against the Group Information Security Group Technical Assurance principal risks to ensure that all potential Group Compliance Group Human Resources Country-specific Take-On Steering Committee threats are considered.
Lower-level risks Group Operations are often triggers for crystallising principal Anti-bribery & Corruption risks so their careful management remains Competition Law an important consideration.
Risk trends Data Protection Environmental The overall risk landscape has increased Health & Safety relative to last year as a result of external factors affecting the business.
Risk appetite Strategic: The strategic-level risk profile is Our long-term success is built on a clear Our risk appetite is strongly influenced by largely one of long-term risk due to strategic direction, contractual and our experience in the industry sector.
At an technological change and Computacenters operational excellence and effective business operational level, we have a higher risk ability or otherwise to innovate effectively.
services functions, such as Finance, Human appetite for business development where we Although our response continues to mature, Resources and Legal & Contracting which have experience of the risks and a lower risk the level of technological change and our support customer-facing staff to fulfil their appetite where we have less experience.
This continuing need to innovate to remain obligations effectively.
All of this is is supported day-to-day by our operating competitive increases this risk over time.
underpinned by a secure IT infrastructure, policies and governance processes which We have also recognised geo-political risk in hosting both internal and customer include decision-making support and this category for the first time, arising from platforms.
Our strategic, contractual and authority over new contracts and contract our increasingly global operations.
infrastructure risks are largely determined changes.
by the industry we operate in and our Contractual Operational: Having long-term approach to adding value.
Risk culture successfully completed our General Data financial and people risks are defined by the Risk management and governance processes Protection Regulation GDPR compliance wider economic environment, the way we run are well-established and understood within project ahead of the due date in May 2018, our business day-to-day and our long-term the business and operate at all levels.
we have widened the definition of the risk staffing needs.
While outside factors are Strategic-level risks are monitored by the this year to one of overall data privacy failure.
beyond our control, our risk management Risk and Audit Committees, as well as by the approach is committed to managing the Board.
Lower-level operational risks are Additionally, the failure to integrate impact of these influences, while controlling identified, analysed and mitigated at a adequately the FusionStorm business the internal elements vital to our success.
functional level on an ongoing basis, using into the wider Group structure has been well-embedded processes.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 HOW RISK LINKS TO STRATEGY Our risk management process helps maximise the chances of achieving our strategic objectives.
Infrastructure: Although there has been Financial: Risks relating to the departure of People: This year we have recognised the risk no overall change in the impact or likelihood the UK from the EU remain under review.
The of failing to ensure adequate diversity in our of occurrence, cyber security remains at the executive-level committee we established workforce and thereby restricting the talent forefront of discussions at both the Risk and last year continues to assess the potential we employ.
Audit Committees and will continue to do so.
risks in more detail as well as our response to them.
Further details can be found on pages 56 to 66 in the Group Finance Directors review.
Our four strategic objectives Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic objective 1: objective 2: objective 3: objective 4: To lead with and grow To improve our To retain and To innovate our our Services business Services productivity maximise the Services offerings to and enhance our relationship with our build future growth competitiveness customers over the opportunities long term Risk categories: Strategic Risks Market shift in technology usage Not investing appropriately Geo-political risk Contractual Operational Risks Lack of effective pre-contract processes Lack of effective post-contract delivery Data privacy failure FusionStorm integration Infrastructure Risks Cyber threat Integrity failure of critical systems Financial Risks Poor control of debt management Under-investment in indirect costs UKs departure from the EU People Risks Poor staff recruitment and retention Inadequate succession planning Failure to ensure adequate diversity Related material: How it all fits together page 21 Accountability page 76 41 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Group risk log 2018 heat map Unchanged risk 1.
Strategic Risks Decreased risk Increased risk Alert status Increased likelihood New risk recognised in relation to geo-politics Risks 3 Market shift in technology usage making what we do less relevant or 2 superfluous CEO 1 Not investing appropriately to 4 enhance our competitiveness CEO Geo-political risk arising from our increasingly global operations CEO Principal impacts 5 Reduced margin Excess operational staff Contracts not renewed Missed business opportunities Response to risks Well-defined Group strategy, backed by an annual strategy process that considers our offerings against market changes Group Investment & Strategy Board which considers strategic initiatives Additional measures including CEO-led country, sector and win loss reviews Impact Risk owner Chief Executive Officer CEO 1: Strategic Risks 2: Contractual Operational Risks 3: Infrastructure Risks 4: Financial Risks 5: People Risks 42 Likelihood STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Related material: 2.
Contractual Operational Risks Our strategic priorities page 20 To lead with and grow our Services business page 22 Alert status Increased likelihood Broadened definition of data privacy failure New risk recognised in relation to FusionStorm Risks Lack of effective pre-contract Lack of effective post-contract processes resulting in poor design, delivery GSD GQAD GDD costing and pricing GSD GQAD CMD Data privacy failure HL&C GCIO Failure to integrate FusionStorm effectively DD Principal impacts Customer dissatisfaction Reduced margins Financial penalties Loss-making contracts Contract cancellations Reduced service and technical Reputational damage innovation Response to risks Mandatory governance processes Regular commercial deep dives into relating to bids and new business troubled contracts and challenging take-ons including risk-based transformation projects decision-making assessments and Data privacy audit programme new tooling FusionStorm integration plan in place Board oversight of significant bids with ongoing monitoring of key risks to Appointment of a Group Quality ensure its success Assurance Director to provide independent quality assurance of key bids and delivery programmes and to improve the extraction of value from our lessons learnt processes Risk owners Country Managing Directors CMD Group Chief Information Officer GCIO Head of Legal & Contracting HL&C Group Services Director GSD Group Delivery Director GDD Group Development Director DD Group Quality Assurance Director GQAD 43 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Related material: 3.
Infrastructure Risks Our Service Centers inside front cover Group Finance Directors review page 56 Sustainability page 36 Alert status Unchanged risks, but some increase in activity Risks Cyber threat to Computacenters Integrity failure of our critical networks and systems, arising from systems GCIO either internal or external security breaches, leading to system failure, denial of access or data loss.
Cyber threats introduced by Computacenter to its customers networks and systems for whatever reason GCIO Principal impacts Inability to deliver business services Financial penalties Reputational damage Contract cancellations Customer dissatisfaction Response to risks Well-communicated Group-wide All Group standard systems built information security and virus and operated on high availability protection policies infrastructure, designed to Specific inductions and training accommodate failure of any single for staff working on customer sites technical component and systems All centrally-hosted systems built Specific policies and procedures for and operated on high availability staff working behind a customers infrastructure, with multiple levels firewall of redundancy Ongoing and regular programme All centrally-hosted systems benefit of external penetration testing from dual network connectivity into Policies ensuring Computacenter core data centers designed to does not run customer applications accommodate loss of network service or have access to customer data Standing agenda item for each Regular review of cyber security meeting of the Group Risk Committee controls Risk owner Group Chief Information Officer GCIO 44 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 4.
People Risks Alert status Alert status Unchanged risks Increased likelihood New risk recognised in relation to diversity Risks Risks Potential effect of UKs departure Poor control of debt management FD Failure to recruit and retain the right from the European Union on our calibre of staff to our talent pool with business as a result of anti-UK focus on senior positions in Sales, business sentiment, specific exit Services and Projects GHRD strategies or short-term issues such Inadequate succession planning or as foreign exchange volatility FD insufficient depth within key senior Under-investing in our indirect costs, executive positions GHRD CEO particularly Sales, leading to missed Failure to ensure adequate diversity opportunities and top line impact thereby restricting the talent we CEO CMD employ GHRD Principal impacts Principal impacts Missed business opportunities Financial impact through bad debts Lack of adequate leadership Non-renewal of contracts Customer dissatisfaction Reduced revenue Financial penalties Reduced margin Contract cancellations Reputational damage Response to risks Response to risks Potential effect of the UKs departure Implementation of debt management from the EU is subject to ongoing best practice after centralising Succession planning in place for top review by the Group Risk Committee, Group-wide collection functions at the 50 managers across the Group with particular short-term emphasis Budapest Finance Shared Service Regular remuneration benchmarking on foreign exchange volatility and Centre Incentive plans to aid retention hedging operations.
Executive-level Monthly review by Management to Investment in management committee reviews risks and assess sales teams ongoing development programmes mitigations in more detail performance and future effectiveness Regular staff surveys to understand and respond to employee issues Specific diversity projects in place Risk owners relating to accessibility and wellbeing, Chief Executive Officer CEO Country Managing Directors CMD life balance, LGBT and allies, future Group Finance Director FD talent, focus on women and culture Risk owners Group Human Resources Director GHRD Chief Executive Officer CEO 45 Our performance in 2018 Financial performance business objectives.
Our ability to integrate Revenue by business type A record year saw the Group surpass vendor technology seamlessly into our 1 4 billion of revenue for the first time, having solutions for customers is therefore critical.
Six Five Four only passed the 3 billion mark in 2013.
The Groups revenues increased by 14.7 per cent, Five The Groups Technology Sourcing revenue Four Three 6 or 559.2 million, to 4,352.6 million 2017: increased by 20.5 per cent to 3,177.6 million Four Three Two 3,793.4 million and were 14.2 per cent 2 2017: 2,636.2 million and by 19.9 per cent 5 2 2 higher in constant currency.
Two One 4 Two One The Group made a statutory profit before tax A strong performance in the first half set the of 108.1 million, a decrease of 3.2 per cent platform for a pleasing full year result in the One 1 3 2017: 111.7 million.
The Groups adjusted UK Technology Sourcing business.
The UK profit before tax increased by 11.3 per cent to business has seen increased Software 1 Workplace 22% 118.2 million 2017: 106.2 million and by volumes which have diluted the Technology 2 Data Center, Networking & Security 29% 2 11.3 per cent in constant currency.
Sourcing margin performance, resulting in 3 Software 16% Workplace 36% overall flat margins and contribution growth 4 Resold Services 6% The difference between statutory profit that is significantly lagging the strong 5 Professional Services 7% 1 before tax and adjusted profit before tax increase in revenue within the UK.
6 Managed Services 20% Datacenter and Networking 12% relates to the Groups reported net loss of So ware 9% 10.1 million 2017: net gain of 5.5 million The Technology Sourcing business in Resold Services 7% Following a record breaking first half of the primarily from disposal of investment Germany saw significant growth during the Management Services 33% year, the second half improved on it, and the property from exceptional and other year, following on from two years of Three Two challenging prior year comparative, in both adjusting items principally related to the extraordinary growth.
Technology Sourcing 1 revenue and adjusted profitability.
Further Two underpinned the Groups performance for One improvement for the year as a whole was information on these can be found on the year, with continued success in the Public One driven by the Technology Sourcing business, page 60.
Sector and from a hyperscale Data Center with strong top line growth in both the UK customer.
With growth across other sectors and Germany and improved margins in Workplace 23% Notwithstanding the decrease in the Groups and portfolios more in line with expectations, France and Germany.
statutory profitability, statutory diluted overall growth could reduce if the Public Datacenter and Networking 19% earnings per share increased by 5.4 per cent Sector business returns to more normal As noted in our Pre-Close Trading Update on to 70.1 pence for the period 2017: 66.5 patterns of growth or if volumes reduce for So ware 24% 23 January 2019, the results were marginally pence, influenced, in part by the Return of this Data Center customer.
Late in the year, 1 ahead of the Boards expectation, as Resold Services 6% Value Tender Offer.
Adjusted diluted earnings we opened a new Integration Center in Professional Services 7% upgraded within the 12 July 2018 Trading per share, the Groups primary measure, Kerpen, near Cologne, which will increase our Management Services 21% Update and confirmed both in the Interim increased by 16.3 per cent to 75.7 pence capacity to grow the business and meet Results and the Q3 Trading Update on 2017: 65.1 pence during the year.
The transition to this new 31 October 2018.
The results are therefore facility was seamless, with the old facility, materially above the Boards expectations The full year of trading to 31 December 2018 which was at maximum capacity, now held at the start of 2018. showed considerable progress in decommissioned.
1 Computacenters adjusted profitability and 1 Technology Sourcing performance even further progress in adjusted earnings French Technology Sourcing revenues Technology Sourcing is the new name for the per share, following the Return of Value declined by 3.6 per cent in constant Business Line previously referred to as 2 Tender Offer completed in February 2018. currency but achieved better margins Supply Chain.
Our Technology Sourcing and through a favourable product mix with less lifecycle management services are The result has benefited from 270.9 million software.
French Technology Sourcing 1 fundamental parts of our offering for our of revenues, and 2.7 million of adjusted margins improved further from the already customers.
Reselling leading manufacturers profit before tax, resulting from the Group-leading position in the prior period, hardware and software products enables us acquisitions made in the second half of the driven by this change in product mix towards to Source technology solutions for year.
All figures reported throughout this Data Center products.
One key Public Sector customers and underpins our Professional Annual Report and Accounts include the account saw reduced volumes, due to an Services transformation solutions.
Most results of the acquired entities.
extensive rebid process that resulted in us customers require a comprehensive retaining the account once again.
We expect solution, combining our services with the volumes on this key account to return to a systems they need to meet their IT and normal pattern throughout 2019, albeit at reduced margins initially.
46 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Overall, Group Technology Sourcing margins The German Services business continued to Outlook 1 grew by 29 basis points during the year, when drive the Groups Services performance.
2018 was a record year in revenue, adjusted 1 compared to the prior year.
Demand for our Professional Services operating profit and adjusted diluted business remained strong throughout the earnings per share for the Group.
We have Services performance year, after a weak first quarter.
Professional also laid foundations for further growth in The Groups Services revenue increased by Services resources continue to be deployed the years ahead.
1.5 per cent to 1,175.0 million 2017: 1,157.2 to assist with technical challenges on million and by 1.1 per cent in constant difficult Managed Services contracts.
This, We have invested in the physical 2 currency.
Within this, Group Professional along with the now critical shortage of infrastructure that enables our Technology Services revenue increased by 0.8 per cent to appropriately skilled resource in the Sourcing, increased our Services capability 321.9 million 2017: 319.2 million, and by marketplace, has constrained Professional and expanded our geographical footprint 2 0.3 per cent in constant currency, whilst Services growth somewhat.
In light of these through acquisitions.
In addition, we reduced Group Managed Services revenue increased challenges, the growth is pleasing.
The the number of shares in circulation by 6.97 by 1.8 per cent to 853.1 million 2017: 838.0 Managed Services business saw steady per cent, through a Return of Value Tender million, and by 1.5 per cent in constant growth from prior period contract wins Offer of 100 million.
Germany substantial investments, Computacenter has a number of contracts, including more finished the year with a strong balance sheet UK Services revenue reduced during 2018, recent wins, that continue to underperform and a cash surplus, which underpins our with a flat Managed Services result and against expectations, which is the lone confidence in the future.
materially lower Professional Services source of disappointment in an otherwise revenues.
Professional Services faced a fantastic year for the business.
Services Specifically, while the Technology Sourcing difficult comparative against 2017, with the margins have reduced, as cost overruns and success of last year creates a difficult prior period including one engagement that further adjustments for loss provisions on comparison in 2019, particularly in the first provided significant revenue and most of the these difficult contracts offset the half, lower Services margins in 2018 give us a growth in that year.
This contract was Professional Services performance and the significant opportunity to improve.
We also completed successfully in 2017 and the rest of the Managed Services portfolio, which expect a profit contribution from our extraordinary volumes achieved were not continues to perform well.
acquired business in the USA.
The forward order book for 2019 is starting to rebuild and we expect an Our French Services business successfully As we look out further into the future, we improved performance in this area, building negotiated a year made difficult by the loss remain enthusiastic about our customers in the second half of 2019, from what was a of a significant Services contract at the end desire to enhance the digital experience, challenging result that has reduced UK and, of 2017 and the renewal, at reduced grow their network capacity, modernise consequentially, overall Group Services revenues and margins, of three other their infrastructure and enhance their revenue.
Several Transformation projects significant Managed Services contracts.
This competitiveness, by investing in technology.
during the year experienced material cost important, but low margin contract loss, and overspends, which constrained Services margin reduction were anticipated heading margins.
These projects are now complete into 2018 and overall, given the uncertainty, and behind us, again setting up 2019 for an the business is pleased to have come improved performance in this area.
The through this period of change.
We will Managed Services business saw the Contract continue to focus on service improvements, Base decline despite renewing and extending automation and pre-agreed cost key contracts.
Whilst renewals are always optimisations, to lift margins over the pleasing, as they validate the long-term lifetime of the contract extensions.
The commitment to customer value and focus for 2019 is to continue to broaden the satisfaction, in order to grow, the focus customer base and to renew the Groups remains on winning tenders for new largest Managed Services contract.
Managed Services margin performance was pleasing, with Overall, Group Services margins declined by improvements across the portfolio apart 104 basis points during the year, when from significant overspend on one new compared to the prior year.
Public Sector contract, which has weighed on the overall result.
A significant adjustment for estimated losses over the remaining lifetime of this difficult contract was booked in the year, within cost of sales.
47 Our performance in 2018 continued Financial performance UNITED KINGDOM Revenues in the UK business increased by 9.7 per cent to 1,605.8 million 2017: 1,463.4 million.
The UK performance was driven by Technology Sourcing, with strong revenue growth remaining ahead of the market.
Our Managed Services revenue was flat in the face of continual customer pressure to reduce costs, meaning any additional work contracted in 2018 ensured we prevented any decline in this annuity-orientated Neil Hall service line.
Managing Director, UK and Ireland Professional Services revenues were down along with isolated profitability challenges on a small number of engagements also impacting the return.
Whilst it was a very difficult comparison against the prior year, the result in this area was still disappointing.
Margins in the UK declined 73 basis points 1 with total adjusted gross profit falling from 13.4 per cent to 12.7 per cent of revenues.
The change in product mix towards Software Members of the UK Country Unit suppressed Technology Sourcing margins Management team which were flat compared to 2017.
Professional Services margins suffered due to three significantly challenged Professional Services engagements coupled with utilisation challenges.
This more than offset strong margin gains, excluding one difficult contract, within Managed Services which resulted from a mix of contract service extensions, better execution and additional project activity.
Administrative expenses increased by 2016 1,351.9 0.8 per cent to 145.8 million 2017: 144.7 2015 1,376.3 million, with a continued focus on cost control offsetting increasing variable 2014 1,347.9 1 remuneration.
This resulted in adjusted operating profit growing by 12.0 per cent to 57.7 million 2017: 51.5 million.
Revenue by business type 1 With some notable new customers, a Six Five Four continued momentum in our Technology Five Four Three Sourcing business and a more favourable 6 comparative in our Services business we Four Three Two are on course to deliver in line with our 2 5 Three Two One expectations for 2019.
4 Two One One 3 1 Workplace 23% 2 Data Center, Networking & Security 19% 3 Software 24% Workplace 36% 4 Resold Services 6% 5 Professional Services 7% Operational Command 6 Managed Services 21% Center, Hatfield, UK Datacenter and Networking 12% So ware 9% Resold Services 7% Management Services 33% 48 Three Two Two One One Workplace 23% Datacenter and Networking 19% So ware 24% Resold Services 6% Professional Services 7% Management Services 21% STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Technology Sourcing performance Managed Services saw another busy year Revenue m 9.7% Technology Sourcing revenue increased for successful contract extensions and by 17.1 per cent to 1,155.6 million 2017: renewals.
This reflects the quality of service 986.7 million.
and long-term commitment to our customers.
As reported last year, customers 1,605.8 The Technology Sourcing business had an continue to bring renewal discussions extremely strong performance in the first forward, prior to the end of their initial term.
1 half of 2018 across all industry sectors and Renewing contracts can put pressure on Adjusted operating profit m 12.0% a second half where growth declined against both revenue and margins within those a difficult comparison.
During 2018, a multinational benefit from significant investment by our customer that had decided to insource, as customers, as they continue to digitise reported last year, removed the service desk 57.7 their operations and modernise their element of the contract, but we retained the infrastructure and seek to enhance their end user support resulting in no material employee engagement.
Services Contract Base m -5.3% We also experienced increasing utilisation The continued focus on the successful of our financing solutions, enabling our initiatives undertaken over the past two customers to continue their investment in years to drive operational efficiency in the 304.1 line with their budget plans.
We expect this Managed Services business has ensured trend to continue which gives us confidence that margins have been enhanced and we The overall Services performance was for the full year and beyond.
continue to focus on our end-to-end delivery disappointing but the contrast in leveraging Group capability and geographic performance between the two components The UK business has a higher percentage of global coverage.
lower margin sales, particularly in Software and Workplace, than our German and French Whilst new customers continued to be added Professional Services had a challenging year.
businesses and continues to lag these other to our customer base during the year, the The comparison against 2017 was difficult segments in Technology Sourcing margins.
high Managed Services renewals rate where one contract in the prior year ensured Overall Software revenues grew by 139 per reflected our strong capabilities and high levels of utilisation and was largely cent in the year and increased the share offerings.
Whilst the contract wins were responsible for the increase in revenues of from 18 per cent to 24 per cent of Technology pleasing, we are yet to be satisfied with our 21.2 per cent seen against 2016.
With this Sourcing revenue in 2018.
Technology growth rate in this area and as a result we contract completed in 2017, the business Sourcing margins were flat with an increase continue to review and adapt our approach was unsuccessful in replacing the volume of three basis points compared to the prior and organisational structure across the of work during 2018 leading to utilisation year, with the move towards lower margin business to align end-to-end sales and impacts, particularly in the Workplace Software continuing to supress this metric.
Compounding this has been The opportunity to increase underlying several other material customer margin return remains the focus of In Managed Services we will continue to focus engagements, that have now been delivered, Management in the UK with small basis point on innovation in design and delivery and to that underperformed in terms of margin increases translating to significant ensure we deliver best practices to our achieved as costs incurred to complete the 1 increases in overall adjusted profitability.
customers to drive their IT strategy and cost engagements were in excess of what was management.
Our focus, once again, Services performance was to support and deliver the engagements Services revenue declined by 5.6 per cent for our customers even in the face of to 450.2 million 2017: 476.7 million.
This individual engagement cost pressures.
resulted from a decline in Professional Services of 17.8 per cent to 116.4 million During 2018, we did not see the Professional 2017: 141.6 million and a flat performance Services growth that we were expecting and from Managed Services which declined by the challenged engagements significantly 0.4 per cent to 333.8 million 2017: 335.1 impacted Services profitability.
Services margins declined by improvement later in 2019 in Professional 41 basis points.
Services both in year and in the pipeline forward order book, with a greater focus on our transformation services, particularly driven by the need for our customers to migrate their workplace environments to the latest Windows platform.
49 Our performance in 2018 continued Financial performance GERMANY Total revenue increased by 8.3 per cent to 2,115.7 million 2017: 1,954.2 million and by 9.2 per cent in reported pound sterling 2 equivalents.
The German business performed well in 2018 and ended the year ahead of our expectations.
Top line growth was strong and, for the first time, the German business exceeded 2 billion of revenue.
Ongoing demand for infrastructure replacements, refreshes and implementing new technologies drove Computacenters growth Reiner Louis in Germany, based on the investments Managing Director, Germany required by customers digitisation efforts.
We are pleased with the increase in the number of customers who contribute more than 1 million of margin and the performance of the existing customer base.
The good performance in 2018 was again driven by a strong Technology Sourcing business, where we achieved strong growth and improved margins.
In our target market of large and international companies, Computacenter is very well positioned as the Members of the German Country Unit number one provider for Cloud, Networking Management team and Security infrastructure.
We have also seen good performance in our Workplace business, benefiting from Windows 10 projects and ongoing demand for collaboration infrastructure.
Services growth was satisfactory but could have been stronger.
The lack of available resources across the German employment market remains a growth inhibitor, especially Revenue in our Professional Services business.
2018 2,115.7 Nevertheless, we achieved strong growth in 2017 1,954.2 this area.
We saw a different picture in our Managed Services business, where we 2016 1,690.1 experienced limited top-line growth and a 2015 1,633.1 decline in margins.
These challenges will drive us to implement more nearshore and 2014 1,431.9 offshore activities in the future.
Margins in Germany decreased by 18 basis Revenue by business type 1 points, with adjusted gross profit 1 decreasing from 12.5 per cent to 12.3 per Six Five Four 1 cent of revenues.
Adjusted gross profit grew Five Four Three by 6.9 per cent to 261.4 million 2017: 244.6 2 6 million and by 7.6 per cent in reported pound Four Three Two 2 sterling equivalents.
Three Two One 5 Administrative expenses increased by 4.0 per Two One 4 cent to 185.8 million 2017: 178.6 million, One and by 5.0 per cent in reported pound 3 2 sterling equivalents.
The cost increase was 1 Workplace 16% in line with our expectations.
We have 2 Data Center, Networking & Security 35% invested in areas where we need new talent 3 Software 14% and special skills to support future growth.
Workplace 36% 4 Resold Services 6% Indirect cost growth remains tightly 5 Professional Services 9% controlled.
We have improved operational Headquarters and Integration 6 Managed Services 20% processes and controls around cash Center, Kerpen, Germany Datacenter and Networking 12% management and achieved good results, So ware 9% especially at the year end.
Resold Services 7% Management Services 33% 50 Three Two Two One One Workplace 23% Datacenter and Networking 19% So ware 24% Resold Services 6% Professional Services 7% Management Services 21% STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 1 Adjusted operating profit for the German Whilst Services revenue growth was in line Revenue m 8.3% business increased by 14.5 per cent to 75.6 with expectations for the year, bottom line million 2017: 66.0 million and by 14.6 per performance was impacted by additional 2 cent in reported pound sterling equivalents.
costs in Managed Services, to stabilise and 2018 was pleasing from a financial resolve technical challenges in new 2,115.7 performance perspective.
In addition, we suffered from the results benefited from strong top-line overall resource shortage in the German 1 growth in Technology Sourcing and employment market.
Higher attrition rates Adjusted operating profit m 14.5% Professional Services.
The outcome for resulted in additional recruiting efforts and the year could have been stronger if we larger salary increases which has impacted had been able to perform better on a the overall Services cost base.
Some of these handful of difficult contracts in our Managed additional costs have been covered by price 75.6 Services portfolio.
increases, however, it will take some time to recover the cost base, especially in our Although market conditions are weakening Managed Services business where we have Services Contract Base m 6.1% and there are some uncertainties related to long-term commitments.
the German economy and the political environment in the European Union, there is In our Professional Services business, the still a good chance for further growth in the year started a little weaker than planned but 412.0 upcoming year.
Computacenters Technology we saw increasing demands from customers Sourcing business in Germany might be in nearly all technology areas, over the rest additional infrastructure, to support new affected by declining demand for new Cloud of the year.
The outcome for the year was business models and digitisation efforts.
We infrastructure from one of our major strong, with near double-digit top-line also achieved good growth in our Workplace customers.
Technology Sourcing growth growth and improved margins.
After two years of lower growth may therefore be more difficult in 2019.
We increasing demand for Windows 10 proof of rates, we saw the first impact of Windows 10 expect to have strong Professional Services concepts, migrations and rollouts.
This migrations and the related infrastructure growth and should see significant should drive further business throughout refreshes.
Our Industrie 4.0 initiative improvements on Services margins in our 2019.
In addition, cloud infrastructure builds delivered good results, generating new Managed Services business as we and network refreshes continue to generate business in the production areas of turnaround the performance of our difficult strong Professional Services demand.
Public customers we already do business with in contracts.
Whilst renewal activities will be Sector investment continues to produce the traditional office environment.
our focus, we have identified some strategic good opportunities for the future and some opportunities in our existing customer base, great new wins of long-term framework We successfully opened our new Integration to create Contract Base growth.
We are still benefiting from our Center based in Kerpen.
The facility is infrastructure consultancy practice, where 2 approximately 30,000m, giving us more Technology Sourcing performance we get excellent feedback from customers space and flexibility for the future, especially Technology Sourcing revenue grew by 9.9 regarding skills and capabilities.
in the area of complex Data Center per cent to 1,502.9 million 2017: 1,367.7 integration projects with Rack and Roll million and by 10.8 per cent in reported Our Managed Services business is the larger requirements.
The move into the new facility 2 pound sterling equivalents.
part of our Services portfolio but it is not in November went well, without any impact growing as quickly as the Professional on the important year-end business.
The After an excellent Technology Sourcing Services business.
We have successfully associated office building on the same site performance in both 2016 and 2017, the renewed some of our existing major for 650 people is still on schedule and will be business again performed well in 2018 and contracts but we also lost two contracts.
officially opened on 4 April 2019. was the major driver of the strong overall However, we also won two new material performance.
contracts and, with a relatively stable Technology Sourcing margins continued to maintenance business, we were able to grow strengthen as the product mix moved to high Cloud, Security and Networking are still the our Contract Base by 6.1 per cent.
Managed value elements and increased by 74 basis areas of strong customer demand.
We saw Services margins were materially impacted points over last year.
exceptional growth in the Data Center by Entry Into Service and Transformation market, with broad customer investments cost overruns for two deals won in 2017 and Services performance in private and hybrid cloud infrastructures.
During 2018, we Services revenue grew by 4.5 per cent to We also benefited from one hyperscale undertook some initiatives across our 612.8 million 2017: 586.5 million and by customer, where we expanded the cloud Managed Services business to stabilise 5.5 per cent in reported pound sterling infrastructure for their software platform.
This included Professional From a vertical perspective, we have seen generated some additional costs we had not Services growth of 8.9 per cent to 188.2 ongoing demand and strong investments expected at the beginning of the year.
million 2017: 172.8 million, an increase of from Public Sector customers, especially to Overall, the Managed Services margin is still 10.0 per cent in reported pound sterling renew, build and extend government-owned below the level we should achieve, due to the 2 equivalents, and Managed Services growth cloud and networking infrastructures.
After financial underperformance of these of 2.6 per cent to 424.6 million 2017: 413.7 a delay to approving the Federal Government challenging contracts.
We should see major million, an increase of 3.6 per cent in budgets, we saw a much stronger second improvements in the upcoming years, given 2 reported pound sterling equivalents.
half of the year in the Public Sector.
Other the investments we have made in 2018. industries such as automotive and Overall, the Services margin was 214 basis production also significantly invested in points lower than last year.
51 Our performance in 2018 continued Financial performance FRANCE Total revenue decreased by 4.1 per cent to 557.4 million 2017: 581.3 million.
In 2 reported pound sterling equivalents, total revenue was down 3.3 per cent.
The French business completed the restructuring of its customer portfolio during 2018, which leaves it with a stable base of large customers within its target customer set.
Total revenue decreased because of the loss of a very large software contract in the Public Sector, which generated very low margins.
Whilst the loss Arnaud Lepinois of the contract is disappointing, it is not that Managing Director, France 1 impactful in terms of adjusted profitability.
We are pleased with the other highlights in Technology Sourcing in 2018, having developed our business offerings and signed new customers who are sourcing highermargin products.
The Services business was challenged by a quiet first half in Professional Services, the loss of a large contract with a utility customer, noted last year and year-on-year price reductions on our three largest Managed Services contracts, as a result of renewal Members of the French Country Unit negotiations.
New Managed Services Management team contracts signed in 2018 did not contribute for a full 12 months and therefore did not offset the overall revenue reduction on the renewed contracts.
The number of Managed Services contract wins gives us confidence that we can continue to develop our footprint in the French market.
After a very good 2017, we expected that our 2018 performance would be challenging, Revenue primarily because of renewals of several of 2018 557.4 our largest customer contracts.
We are 2017 581.3 proud to have renewed them all in 2018.
At the same time, our strategy of focusing on 2016 514.3 large accounts is performing well, with many 2015 565.4 new customer wins in the Private Sector.
We completely reorganised our sales force by 2014 590.9 industry within the Private Sector and focused on the execution of very large framework contracts within the Public Revenue by business type Sector.
As a result, we refreshed 30 per cent 1 of our Sales Specialist positions, to fit with Six Five Four our revised go-to-market propositions.
6 Five Four Three 5 4 Four Three Two Three Two One 3 Two One One 2 1 Workplace 46% 2 Data Center, Networking & Security 22% 3 Software 10% Workplace 36% 4 Resold Services 2% 5 Professional Services 4% France headquarters, Roissy, 6 Managed Services 16% France Datacenter and Networking 12% So ware 9% Resold Services 7% Management Services 33% 52 Three Two Two One One Workplace 23% Datacenter and Networking 19% So ware 24% Resold Services 6% Professional Services 7% Management Services 21% STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 We will continue to focus on large Services performance Revenue m -4.1% organisations, helping their IT decision Services revenue declined by 6.0 per cent makers to enable users with advanced to 112.5 million 2017: 119.7 million and support and guidance and supporting their by 5.1 per cent in reported pound sterling 2 businesses by delivering outstanding equivalents.
Professional Services 557.4 infrastructure services and solutions.
In this increased by 3.4 per cent to 21.4 million context, our alignment with our Group 2017: 20.7 million, which was an increase 1 propositions and service capabilities of 4.4 per cent in reported pound sterling Adjusted operating profit m 27.0% 2 remains key.
To enforce this alignment and equivalents.
Managed Services declined by support further growth, we have signed off 8.0 per cent to 91.1 million 2017: 99.0 an investment plan for 2019 to increase million, a decrease of 7.0 per cent in 2 significantly our resources in operations.
To reported pound sterling equivalents.
8.0 support talent development and attraction, we launched the Computacenter University The Managed Services performance was as to recruit, train and certify new resources, expected given the loss of a contract at the Services Contract Base m 4.7% ready to support our growth in the Workplace end of 2017 with a utility customer and the and Data Center spaces.
We are extending price reductions on our three largest our Managed Services capabilities by opening Managed Services contracts, due to a new Service Center location in France, in anticipated service improvements, 90.7 mid-2019, to increase our capacity and automation, volume reduction and preresilience for Service Desk operations.
Technology Sourcing performance Technology Sourcing revenue decreased by The transition to Arnaud Lepinois as the new We implemented two new contracts in 2018 3.6 per cent to 444.9 million 2017: 461.6 Managing Director has been completed and and recently won two others that are million and by 2.8 per cent in reported pound the new management team is now in place to currently in the Entry Into Service phase.
This has helped maintain stability within our Managed Services Contract Base, which was In 2018, we lost a very high revenue and Margins in France increased by 80 basis up 4.7 per cent at the end of the year low-margin software contract in the Public 1 points, with adjusted gross profit increasing compared to the previous year.
Private Sector revenue grew strongly from 10.5 per cent to 11.3 per cent of have to deal with large renewals in 2019 but and included new wins in our target revenues.
the mid-term pipeline is encouraging, and we customer set, which is a pleasing affirmation believe our Contract Base will continue the of our strategy to broaden the customer 1 Overall adjusted gross profit grew by 3.3 per growth seen this year.
We will continue to drive growth by cent to 62.9 million 2017: 60.9 million and securing our market share in the Public by 4.1 per cent in reported pound sterling Although activity remains relatively low, our Sector and striving for ambitious growth in 2 equivalents.
Professional Services business made strategic Private Sector accounts.
During the pleasing progress and has strong growth year, we renewed our most important Management has continued to focus on cost ambitions for 2019.
We are confident we can Technology Sourcing framework contract.
control within the French business, which achieve this, as we have further refined our Revenues declined whilst the contract was has seen an increase in administrative target customer base, improved vendor being renewed, as volumes naturally fell, but expenses of only 0.5 per cent to 54.9 million partnerships and defined a clear portfolio of margins were not impacted.
As we head into 2017: 54.6 million, and of 1.5 per cent in solutions around End User, Data & Analytics, 2019, we see the volumes once again 2 reported pound sterling equivalents.
Cloud & Data Center, Networking and increasing, albeit on tighter margins in the Security.
Several projects signed at the end short term.
1 Adjusted operating profit for the French of 2018 will support the growth in 2019. business increased by 27.0 per cent to 8.0 Having achieved a real improvement in million 2017: 6.3 million, and by 26.8 per Services margins were flat, increasing by Technology Sourcing margin during 2017, to 2 cent in reported pound sterling equivalents.
one basis point over last year.
Services lead the Group, we were pleased to again see margins were under significant pressure an increase in our margin.
This was mainly in our Managed Services business, due to due to a reduction in low-margin contracts the contract renewals.
Professional Services and a change in the business mix towards margins were constrained by a difficult higher value, higher margin products.
international project that ended in December.
Improving our business mix towards Data Center, Networking and Security was our priority and we made good progress in 2018, with revenue growth in Data Center and Security, compared to a decrease in Workplace.
Overall, Technology Sourcing margins increased by 102 basis points.
53 Our performance in 2018 continued International Segment INTERNATIONAL The International Segment comprises a number of trading entities and offshore Global Service Desk delivery locations.
The trading entities include: Computacenter USA, which provides local Services to the American subsidiaries of a number of large Western European Group customers: FusionStorm, the US-based IT solutions provider acquired on 30 September 2018: Computacenter Switzerland, which mainly provides Services to the Swiss subsidiaries of our global customers as well as some local customers: Computacenter Belgium: and Computacenter Mike Keogh Netherlands, which was formerly known as Managing Director, US Misco Solutions B. V. and was acquired by the Group on 1 September 2018.
These trading entities are complemented by the offshore Global Service Desk entities in Spain, Malaysia, India, South Africa, Hungary, Poland, China and Mexico, which have limited external revenues.
FusionStorm and the Swiss, Belgian and Dutch entities have in-country sales organisations, which enable us to sell to Lieven Bergmans local customers.
Managing Director, Rest of Europe Financial performance Revenues in the International business increased by 261.3 per cent to 380.8 million 2017: 105.4 million and by 264.8 per cent 2 in constant currency.
1 Adjusted gross profit increased by 83.2 per cent to 57.9 million 2017: 31.6 million, and 2 by 85.0 per cent in constant currency.
Revenue 2018 380.8 Administrative expenses increased by 102.2 2017 105.4 per cent to 45.5 million 2017: 22.5 million 2 and by 104.0 per cent in constant currency.
2016 91.0 2015 84.7 1 Overall adjusted operating profit increased by 36.3 per cent to 12.4 million 2017: 9.1 2014 129.9 million and by 37.8 per cent in constant 2 currency.
Revenue by business type The result has been driven by 270.9 million 1 1 of revenues, and 2.7 million of adjusted Six Five Four 2 profit before tax, resulting from the 6 Five Four Three acquisitions made in the second half of the year.
All figures reported throughout this 5 Four Three Two Annual Report and Accounts include the Three Two One results of the acquired entities.
Two One 4 Technology Sourcing Performance 3 One Technology Sourcing revenue increased by 584.1 per cent to 297.6 million 2017: 43.5 1 Workplace 9% million and by 579.5 per cent in constant 2 2 Data Center, Networking & Security 51% currency.
3 Software 5% Workplace 36% 4 Resold Services 12% Following the acquisitions, FusionStorm 5 Professional Services 6% added 237.8 million and Computacenter Integration Center, 6 Managed Services 17% Netherlands added 16.8 million to Newark, California, USA Datacenter and Networking 12% Technology Sourcing revenues in 2018.
So ware 9% Resold Services 7% Management Services 33% 54 Three Two Two One One Workplace 23% Datacenter and Networking 19% So ware 24% Resold Services 6% Professional Services 7% Management Services 21% STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Services performance entities have in-country sales organisations, Revenue m 261.3% Services revenue increased by 34.4 per cent which enable us to engage with local to 83.2 million 2017: 61.9 million and by customers, and we have begun the 2 37.3 per cent in constant currency.
integration of these teams with effect from 1 January 2019, as part of our larger 380.8 Professional Services revenue increased by integration efforts.
145.1 per cent in both actual and constant 2 1 currency, to 20.1 million 2017: 8.2million.
Computacenter USA is a Services business Adjusted operating profit m 36.3% Managed Services revenue increased by 17.5 which provides Managed Services to the US per cent to 63.1 million 2017: 53.7 million, subsidiaries of our Western European an increase of 20.4 per cent in constant headquartered customers.
consecutive year, a large Group customer 12.4 extended its Services scope into the Following the acquisitions, FusionStorm Americas region which reflects the added 8.2 million of Professional Services increasing demand for global service Services Contract Base m -7.4% revenues during 2018, whilst Computacenter support.
In addition, we continued to invest Netherlands added 8.1 million of Managed in our nearshore Service Center location in Services revenues.
Mexico City which, since going live in 2016, has exceeded service level and financial 17.7 Rest of Europe performance targets.
The European trading entities within for us and we look forward to building International operate under an internal The FusionStorm business exceeded the long-term relationships with local management structure called Rest of Services and Technology Sourcing growth customers.
Our direct local presence in the Europe.
targets we set as part of the acquisition Netherlands will also enhance our support process.
The Services growth was driven to a number of Computacenters largest Our Swiss operations continue to perform primarily by hyperscale customer rollouts of international clients, for whom this is well and saw pleasing growth in both data center and networking infrastructure a key location.
1 revenues and adjusted operating profitability projects plus an increase in its expert in 2018, with increases of 16.0 per cent and services business.
Following the acquisition, We have rebranded the business to 22.3 per cent respectively, both in constant the fourth quarter saw the two highest Computacenter Netherlands and focused 2 currency.
The acquisition of cITius in revenue months of configured solution on integration into the Group.
Whilst the January 2017 has expanded the range of shipments from our Integration Center in business made a small loss during the first services that the Swiss business can offer Newark, CA, in the heart of Silicon Valley.
four months of operation, we are confident and increased our ability to bid for December was particularly notable, as it was that we will improve the performance to opportunities within our customer base.
a record month which more than doubled the be more like our similar Belgian operation Additionally, the take-on of a large monthly average Integration Center volumes over time.
international Managed Services contract seen in the prior 12 months.
across the Group has increased local revenue.
Our 2019 challenges for the Rest of Europe As we move into 2019, we see a number of grouping are focused on further integration Our Belgian operations experienced a slight opportunities to enhance the acquired of tools and processes in the Netherlands.
fall in revenue of 1.6 per cent in constant business and to leverage revenue synergies We also look forward to expanding both 2 1 currency, and an increase in adjusted between the new and existing American our customer base and capabilities in operating profit of13.7 per cent in constant operations.
We will open a new Integration Switzerland.
The focus in Belgium will be 2 currency.
Our Services business revenues Center in California, tripling the capacity of to grow our sales capacity and Managed were down slightly.
Expanding the Managed the existing facility and leveraging Group Services pipeline.
Services Contract Base remains a key focus knowledge on logistics, most recently for Management, to drive Services revenue employed on the new Kerpen Integration We continue to review opportunities to growth in line with our plans.
We will also begin to pursue extend our Western European footprint, Sourcing business was flat and the Intel chip opportunities to deliver Technology Sourcing by entering into adjacent territories or shortage had a negative effect on end of solutions into existing US Services by increasing our capabilities in existing year revenues within our Workplace line of customers, a number of whom have already locations by adding complementary business.
In the second half, we were able to enquired about this capability.
We will look to activities within either our Services or build an improved pipeline for more complex provide Technology Sourcing solutions to Technology Sourcing businesses.
other Western European customers for We successfully closed some of these whom we do not currently transact any Computacenter USA & FusionStorm towards the end of 2018 and we hope to business in the USA.
Early in 2019, we closed Computacenter USA provides local services identify further opportunities in 2019. our first deal of this nature with one of the to the American subsidiaries of a number of worlds leading betting and gaming large Western European Group customers.
On 1 September 2018, we acquired Misco companies which is expanding its US FusionStorm is a value-added reseller of Solutions B. V. The business is a value-added operations.
hardware and software solutions, which we reseller and solutions provider to the Public acquired on 1 October 2018.
These trading and Private sectors, based in Amstelveen entities are complemented by the Service and Bodegraven, the Netherlands.
We are Center entity in Mexico, which has limited excited to enter this new territory, as the external revenues.
On top of their operational Netherlands is an adjacent European market delivery capabilities, the US and FusionStorm 55
