ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 60 Managing our principal risks At ContourGlobal we manage our risks rigorously across all businesses and corporate functions.
This is a disciplined anddynamic process led from the top and applied day by day throughout the Company.
The Board of Directors has overall The second line of defense comprises We are actively tracking the risk related responsibility for the Companys risk Group functions such as compliance, touncertainty surrounding Brexit and, appetite, risk management and ensuring internal control, IT and quality.
It focuses currently, we do not anticipate that that there is an effective risk management onmonitoring and compliance with Brexitwill have a material impact on strategy and framework.
The Audit & Risk riskcontrol systems and processes ouroperations or our financial results.
Committee assists the Board with implemented by the business.
monitoring the Companys risk Controlling risks management framework, identifying areas An internal audit function was established The Company faces a broad range of risks of risk, challenging control weaknesses in December 2018.
The function together related to operating, maintaining and and providing independent assessment withexternal assurance providers serves refurbishing power generation facilities.
and opinion on the effectiveness and These include operational, health, safety asthe third line of defense, providing efficiency of the Companys internal independent assurance of risk and environmental HSE as well as cyber controls and risk management systems.
management, internal controls and security and systems integrity risk.
In line This also includes review of the risk governance.
with our culture of operational excellence register and providing regular updates and safety, we make sure all the resources tothe Board on actions taken to mitigate Senior management plays a key role are available to control these risks at the the risks faced by the Group.
Details of the inmonitoring the risk management right level.
Audit & Risk Committees composition, governance framework and policy.
responsibilities and activities can be found Startingin 2018, a focus group of key In December 2018 the Audit & Risk in the Audit & Risk Committee Report on senior management members has been Committee appointed the new Head pages 80 to 85. set up to review and update the risks listed ofInternal Audit and approved the on the risk register.
2019Internal Audit risk-based plan, Leading from the top theInternal Audit Charter and Internal In August 2018, we held a two-day risk Auditmethodology.
Deloitte was appointed Focusing on the major risks management workshop with key members This section of the strategic report as the co-sourcing partner to conduct the of senior management of the Company.
provides an overview of our approach to audits and provide support tothe Head Wefocused on reassessing and reviewing managing risk, focusing on the major risk ofInternal Audit in the development of key risks and hot topics such as cyber factors related to implementing the thefunction.
security and continuing Brexit uncertainty.
Companys strategy and business model.
Itis not an exhaustive list of all possible Further information can be found in the The Companys risk management risks.
Additional uncertainties exist, some Audit & Risk Committee report on pages framework consists of a risk register of of which may not be known to the 80 to 85. allkey risks, a risk map and risk ID cards Company and could have a negative effect detailing elements such as qualitative on the Companys financial position and Opportunities management analysis of the main causes and impacts.
The principal risks and Certain strategic risk events, when realized, The register details the management can present opportunities.
The Board and uncertainties were considered in assessing action plans in place to minimize the the long-term viability of the Company.
senior management therefore constantly chance of a risk crystalizing.
Our risk Theviability statement can be found on monitor our potential risk scenarios for management approach is based on the page 67. strategic long-term planning.
three lines of defense model which ensures the Company allocates Reducing uncertainties responsibilities and provides reasonable The Companys diversified geographical assurance over the effectiveness of andtechnological approach to contracted controls, procedures and relevant systems.
and regulated power generation, as well aspolitical risk insurance coverage of high Operational management in our businesses risk assets, reduces uncertainties relating is the first line of defense.
It ensures that tomedium-term operational results.
day-to-day risk management controls are Weclosely monitor residual risks related to implemented and monitored and that governmental regulations, macroeconomic relevant systems are in place to identify, uncertainties and changes in market evaluate and mitigate the Companys conditions through the risk management business risks.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 61 Risk management framework Roles and responsibilities Overall responsibility for risk management: Risk appetite, strategy, Board policy and systems, approval of the risk register Assisting Assessing Reviewing the Board the effectiveness the Companys with developing andefficiency of the internalcontrol, andmonitoring internal control and risk riskmanagement Audit & Risk riskmanagement management systems systemsand Committee framework, identifying Riskregister andmonitoring areas ofrisk and reducing control weaknesses Monitoring Reviewing risk management and updating Senior governance the Companys risk management framework register in a working group of key senior and policy team management members First line Second line of defense of defense Third line Business Compliance, of defense operations Legal, IT, Internal Audit Policies, Organization, Internal Control, Risk assessment Quality procedures Independent assurance of risk management, internal controls and governance Risk ownership and control Monitoring and compliance ensuring day-to-day risk with regards to risk control management controls are systems and processes New element in Companys implemented and monitored implemented bybusiness risk management framework and systems are in place to since 2018 identify, evaluate and mitigate Companys business risks n o i t u c e x e d n a l a n o i t a I r n f e o p r O m a t i o n t e c h n o l o g y y g e t a r t S R e g u l a t i o n a n ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 62 Managing our principal risks continued Risk map R01 R02 R03 R04 R09 R05 R06 R08 R07 Risk Level Moderate High R01 Impact of governmental actions Risk Radar mapping presents the top nine High: residual risk remaining likely and regulations risks ContourGlobal is facing.
They are all tohave a strong impact on the R02 Macroeconomic and political major risks for the Group.
The risk radar achievement of strategic objectives even conditions has three levels of residual risk: high, if risk management measures are in place.
R03 Project execution CAPEX moderate and low.
Additional actions should be taken to alter R04 Asset integrity OPEX Each level is a combination of inherent risk severity further.
R05 Resources Climate change risk significance potential impact and Moderate: risk that could strongly affect R06 Health, Safety and Environment likelihood and risk response in place.
the achievement of the objectives for HSE and food: prevention and Inherent risk is the risk to an entity in the which level of control is high enough regulation absence of any direct or focused actions toresult in a moderate residual risk.
R07 Fraud, bribery and corruption by management to alter its severity Additional actions could be taken to R08 Cyber security and systems significance.
integrity Residual risk is the risk remaining after Low: risk that may have limited impact R09 Key people senior executive management has taken action to alter onthe business given that control management succession itsseverity significance.
mechanisms are in place together planning withrelevant monitoring and assessmentmeasures.
The closer the positioning of the risk to the center of the radar, the higher is the residual severity of the risk.
The order in which the risks are presented doesnot reflect their relative significance.
d c o m p l l a i i a c n r c e e m m o c d n a e c n O a S n i H F A a n d e n v i r o n n m o e i t n a t z i n a g r o d n a e l p o e P ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 63 Risk Response Risk Factor Main impact management and mitigation R01 Strategy Impact of governmental actions and regulations The risk that governmental actions or Deterioration of financial performance PPAs are held with state-owned, regulated changes in 1 taxes or 2 regulations ofour including loss of revenue and an increase or other off-takers, the majority of which non-PPA long-term fixed rate arrangements in expenses.
are rated by Standard & Poors, with a i. e. feed-in-tariffs and PowerPurchase weighted average credit rating of BBBAgreements PPAs including investigations Loss of business growth opportunities: weighted by EBITDA.
by regulatory or competition law authorities, Termination of agreements without regulatory risk pass-through Inability to obtain, maintain or renew PRI policies from commercial insurers mechanisms will have a negative impact required governmental permits Licenses arein place for several projects in case onour results of operation.
ofevents that can affect our assets, in Inability to receive permits for extension particular the loss of invested capital.
Insome cases, these cover a return on ourcapital.
These include: Included in the sensitivity analysis on principal risks for viability and going Maritsa, Vorotan, KivuWatt, Togo, Nigeria, concern assessment.
Cap des Biches, TermoemCali, Sochagota, Slovakia and Kosovo.
Close relationships are maintained withenergy lawyers and associations toanticipate any potential changes in regulation and express our interests.
Partnerships are fostered with multilateral development banks for both equity and debt which makes governments reticent torenegotiate.
Investment is placed in local communities and hiring locally.
The business has a sovereign credit rating of A post PRI impact based on the individual sovereign ratings determined byStandard & Poors.
Maritsa anticipates that in the near term it will engage in discussions with the government ofBulgaria related to the Bulgarian energy regulators complaint to the EU Commission that the Maritsa PPA contains elements ofstate aid.
While we cannot predict the outcome of such negotiations, any resolution could nonetheless contain terms that adversely affect the Maritsa PPA and have amaterial adverse impact on Maritsas and ContourGlobals business.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 64 Managing our principal risks continued Risk Response Risk Factor Main impact management and mitigation R02 Macroeconomic and political conditions The risk that macroeconomic and political Deterioration of financial performance: PRI policies from commercial insurers conditions such as geopolitical uncertainty, Increase in operational costs arein place for several projects in case social instability, sanctions and trade war Higher financing transaction costs ofevents that can affect our assets in will create additional uncertainty for our Disruption of operation of one or more particular in Africa and Eastern Europe.
international operations and have a ofour assets negative impact on the business model Increase in Opex and Capex In some cases we can recover a return on andsupply chain limiting our flexibility in Loss of invested capital our capital: cross-border investments.
Adverse effect on results of operation Unforeseen additional recurring costs vs. Maritsa, Vorotan, KivuWatt, Togo, Nigeria, For example, the continuing uncertainty financial model projections project IRR Cap des Biches, TermoemCali, Sochagota, around Brexit and the future trading and and cash flow Slovakia and Kosovo.
transition relationship between the UK and Charges and penalties due to nonthe EU creates an uncertain operating compliance with external requirements Our diversified operations limit the environment.
downside as the impact of a localized Loss of business growth opportunities: geopolitical effect is unlikely to have Included in sensitivity analysis on principal Inability to operate effectively asignificant effect on the full portfolio.
risks for viability and going concern Termination of agreements assessment.
Fewer opportunities for growth Diversification of jurisdictions and technologies minimizes the risk.
New Risk added in 2018. Business disruption: Inability to procure required equipment Access to several financial markets Impact on EAF and EFOR allowthe business to choose the most opportune sources of transactional Brexit: financing.
Deterioration of capital offers due touncertain financial implications, Investment in local communities and hiring increased cost and possible disruption locally creates goodwill with local tothe supply of goods and services, governments and populations.
possible increase of regulatory risk.
However, currently we do not anticipate Minimal existing risk mitigation in place that Brexit will have a material impact on though diversified business help mitigate our operations or our financial results.
Analysis of suppliers and supply chain.
R03 Operation and execution Project execution CAPEX The risk that inefficient project management Financial impact e. g. : Controlling methodology: specific internal and execution of greenfield construction or Overrun of project costs including resource is dedicated to provide guidance refurbishment investment projects will result financing fees vs. investment case and best practice to ensure strict and real in delays or unanticipated cost overruns.
impacting projected cash flows and IRR time project cost control, enabling cost Liquidated damages penalties litigation overruns to be identified early and Risk decreased due to decrease of the Reduced revenue due to construction mitigation actions put in place.
likelihood of the events related to delays realization of this risk over 3-year horizon.
Potential defaults on financing and debt Minimizing the risk of exceeding repayment before COD construction budgets by entering into Included in the sensitivity analysis on fixedprice contracts with engineering, principal risks for viability and going Image and reputation impact resulting procurement and construction EPC concern assessment.
from a loss of credibility with contractors with proven track records.
counterparties, lenders and other stakeholders.
EPC contracts contain back-to-back liquidated damages provisions which protect ContourGlobal against construction delays and other breaches byEPC contractors.
Contract monitoring and management with legal support.
External support to obtain permits.
Project Review Procedure: monthly review of the projects organized by the Project Management Team including the Group COO and presented to the Project Steering Committee.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 65 Risk Response Risk Factor Main impact management and mitigation R04 Operation and execution Asset integrity OPEX The risk that asset maintenance processes Deterioration of operational performance: Business interruption insurance.
are not managed in line with the O&M plan Business interruption and power outages and quality standards will prevent the power Performance below expected efficiency O&M strategy focusing on HSE, O&M plants from delivering electricity and and output levels Organization, O&M performance ensuring availability at the levels defined in Inability to deliver electricity or ensure management, benchmark and KPIs.
availability defined in long-term PPAs Maintenance strategy including hydro Risk unchanged Reduced profitability and cash flows: andcivilstructures.
Increase of expenses OPEX & CAPEX : Unplanned O&M and capital expenditures O&M IT systems including remote Loss of revenue and PPA penalties monitoring control room.
Liquidated damages Reduction in distribution and inability Maintenance activities with regular KPIs toservice debt forcontrol, and timely corrective actions.
Daily KPIs and improvement meetings between local plant managers and operators.
R05 Operation and execution Resources Climate change The risk that climate change e. g. changes Deterioration of financial performance Diversified geographical and technological in temperature, wind patterns and including a loss of revenue and or an portfolio of assets.
hydrological conditions will affect the increase in expenses O&M costs.
certainty of our forecasts, will impact our Extensive weather phenomena studies operations and adversely affect our financial Impact on the operational performance and due diligence before acquisitions.
with a strong deviation of actual renewable generation vs. projections Sign-off on all investment case Risk unchanged inthe investment case specifically for assumptions by a reputable advisory firm.
Included in the sensitivity analysis on Scenario analysis carried out across the principal risks for viability and going Loss of assets.
R06 Health, safety and environment HSE and food prevention and regulation The risk that failure to prevent major health, Human and environmental impact: Health and Safety Policy reviewed safety, environmental and food CO LTIs Lost Time Incidents and fatalities of annually and communicated Company- 2 production incidents and or comply ContourGlobal employees, contractors or wide.
withrelevant regulations due to inherent people in local communities around the risks related to our activities fuel types, facilities due to incidents at the power Health and Safety and Environmental technology, equipment in more than plants management system is aligned with H&S 20countries will have a material adverse Environmental accidents on site and in 18001, ISO 14001 standards, and also with impact in our operations, financing local communities World Bank guidelines, namely the IFC conditions and reputation.
Risk unchanged Monitoring of reactive indicators such Financial and operational impact: asresponses to accidents and proactive Increase in liabilities and compliance indicators including known hazards, costs inspection quality and number of training Business interruption hours.
Loss of efficiency productivity Breach of loan covenants Intense regular training.
Non-compliance with applicable HSE legal requirements and potential Strong environmental policies and sanctions procedures: each businesss compliance with applicable policies, local laws and permit requirements is managed directly by the business oversight and audit through operations, environmental, health and safety departments Third-party contractors environmental audits.
Arrubal, Togo and Knockmore Hill have achieved ISO 14001 certification.
Adherence to a Company-wide environmental policy, reflecting the business commitment to the United Nations Global Compact.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 66 Managing our principal risks continued Risk Response Risk Factor Main impact management and mitigation R07 Regulation and compliance Fraud, bribery and corruption The risk that lack of transparency, threat of Financial impact: A strong anti-bribery compliance program fraud, public sector corruption, money Financial losses as a result of fraudulent that reflects the components of an laundering and other forms of criminal activities effective ethics and compliance program activity involving government officials or Violations of anti-corruption or other laws as set forth by various international suppliers will result in a failure to comply Criminal and or civil sanctions against conventions and enforcement authorities, with anti-corruption legislation, including the individuals and or the Company which is reviewed at least quarterly.
UK Bribery Act 2010 and other international Loss of trust by key stakeholders anti-bribery laws.
Debarment by multilateral development Policies and procedures include: banks and international financial Code of Conduct and Business Ethics Risk unchanged institutions Anti-Corruption Policy Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide Included in the sensitivity analysis on Reputation impact and loss of trust.
Policy for Engaging Supplier and principal risks for viability and going Third-Party Service Providers concern assessment.
Exclusion from government funding Gifts & Hospitality Policy programs.
Compliance Transactional Due Diligence Protocol Business Development Consultant Compliance Protocol Annual certification by employees.
Risk-based due diligence, including for third parties and transactions.
Online portals: Third-Party Service Provider and Supplier Portal Gifts & Hospitality Portal Document Review and Signature Approval Procedure cross-functional Ethics Line Regular checks and audits: Bi-annual combined Compliance and Finance Audits Internal spot checks Tailored, risk-based training according toayearly training plan.
R08 Information technology Cyber security and system integrity The risk that insufficient IT security or Organizational and operational impact: Dedicated security function established maintenance of systems will expose the Disruptions to business operations forcorporate and plant IT.
Company, to data corruption e. g. a GDPR Compromise of data integrity in core breach or cyber intrusions.
This could have systems Plants a negative impact on information systems as Physical access controls well as electronic control systems used at Financial impact: Dedicated plant IT functions established the generating plants, and could disrupt Potential for fraudulent activity due to consolidate IT management approach business operations, resulting in loss of tosegregation of duties conflicts in the plants under a global framework service to customers, expense to repair Penalties related to non-compliance ofIT OT security policies and procedures.
security breaches and or system damage.
withdata-related laws and regulations This local segregated approach to the Loss of revenue due to disruptions management of plants minimizes risk.
Risk decreased due to an increase in the tooperations level of controls which were strengthened Corporate over the year at corporate and plant level.
Impact on reputation due to breach Security governance controls in place ofconfidentiality.
including security policies, security Included in the sensitivity analysis on training, security reviews principal risks for viability and going Security systems implemented concern assessment.
e. g. anti-virus, web filtering, firewalls, multifactor authentication, encryption The risk combines two information Security information and event management technology risks from last years report: system SIEM implemented in 2018. cyber security and integrity & Infrastructure hosting security in place reliability of corporate IT systems.
ISO-27001 compliant data centers User provisioning process for key financial accounting and reporting systems, and segregation of duties whereapplicable Governance processes in place e. g. change management, incident management Annual external audits of financial systemsand IT security ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 67 Risk Response Risk Factor Main impact management and mitigation R09 People and organization Key people senior executive management succession planning The risk that a combination of key peoples Removal or departure of key individuals Focused action to attract, retain and senior executive management departure could result in operational disruption, develop high caliber employees.
atshort notice may affect the Companys while competition for employees could ability to deliver its strategic objectives lead to higher than expected increases Initiatives which reinforce behaviors andthe overall Company performance.
inthe cost of recruitment, training and togenerate the best outcomes for employee costs.
Risk unchanged Loss of key management members could Managing organizational capability and have a reputational impact.
capacity to meet our customers needs.
Effective remuneration arrangements to promote effective employee behaviors.
Clear succession plans to ensure trust levels remain.
Viability statement Linked to the After reviewing all of the above Risk scenario tested principal risk In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the considerations, the Directors have a Code, the Directors have assessed the reasonable expectation that the Company Changes in R01 will be able to continue in operation and prospects of the Company over a period governmental Governmental significantly longer than 12 months.
The meet its liabilities as they fall due over regulations in regulations Directors believe that an assessment three years.
countriesnot page 63 period of three years is appropriate based coveredby political R02 on managements reasonable expectations In assessing the prospects of the riskinsurance Macroeconomic of the position and performance of the Company, the Directors noted that such financial impact of and political Company over this period, taking account assessment is subject to a degree of significant change conditions of its short-term and longer-range plans.
uncertainty that can be expected to intaxburden page 64 increase looking out over time and, Construction and R03 The Directors assessment has been accordingly, that future outcomes cannot refurbishment Project performed using a two-stage approach: be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
activities financial execution impact of significant CAPEX Going concern statement i the assessment of the prospects of the cost overruns page64 Group through the review of the Groups The Directors have formed a judgment, current position, strategy and business Reduction of wind R05 Resource atthe time of approving the financial model, financial projections and principal hydro resource due climate change statements, that there is a reasonable risks.
In particular, the Groups financial toclimate change page 65 expectation that the Group and the performance has been assessed as financial impact Company have adequate resources to relatively predictable given more resulting from the continue in operational existence for a than90% of revenue and related cash lossof revenue period of at least 12 months from the date flows are fully contracted or regulated.
For this reason, the Directors renewableassets Inaddition, the resources available continue to adopt the going concern basis considering the financial projections in preparing the Group and Company Significant compliance R07 provide significant headroom to serve financial statements.
breach financial Fraud, bribery itsfinancing commitments.
impact in the form and corruption In reaching this conclusion, the Directors ofhypothetical fines page66 ii the assessment of the viability of the have considered: andassociated The financial position of the Group as set Company through the preparation of reputational damage out in the Annual Report and additional themost severe but plausible scenarios information provided in the financial Cyber-attack stopping R08 applied on these principal risks, the statements including note 4.14 a major asset for two Cyber security analysis of their financial impact on Management of financial risk, notes 4.21 and system weeks financial revenue, profitability, cash generation and 4.23 Cash and cash equivalents impact of revenue integrity and cash distribution, and the review of and Borrowings and note 4.15 lossfrom a major page 66 the mitigation factors that management Derivative financial instruments assetin that period reasonably believes would be available The resources available to the Group to the Company over this period.
taking account of its financial projections The results of the risk scenarios modelled and existing headroom against showed that neither an individual risk nor committed debt facilities and covenants Each of the risks presented on pages 63 to acombination of the plausible risk events The principal risks and uncertainties to 67 have been assessed in terms oftheir would have significant enough financial which the Group is exposed, as set out potential financial impact.
Outofthose, the impact to endanger the viability of the on pages 63 to 67, the likelihood of them most severe but plausiblescenarios arising and the mitigating actions Company over the period assessed.
In individual or combination arepresented in available.
addition, the geographical spread of the the followingtable.
Group, present in 18 countries with 101 operating plants and the significant portion of non-recourse financing arrangements atthe asset level, mitigate the impact at Group level.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 68 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 69 Governance 70 Board of Directors 72 Corporate governance report 78 Report of the Nomination Committee 80 Report of the Audit & Risk Committee 86 Report of the Remuneration Committee 88 Remuneration at a glance 90 Annual Report on Remuneration 100 Summary of Remuneration Policy 104 Directors report 107 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements
