Risk management and our principal risks and uncertainties To achieve our strategic goals and business Our risk appetite objectives, and protect value, it is essential that we manage the risks that are inherent in our business and the markets where Risk category Risk parameters we operate.
Strategic We have a moderate to high risk appetite Moderate to high with regard to product innovation and exploring and adopting commercial strategies that bring enhanced value to our customers and which contribute to the delivery of a higher quality of care to patients around the world.
Operational We maintain a low to moderate risk Risk management Low to moderate tolerance when assessing our suppliers The Board is responsible for determining our risk appetite and and managing our overall production assessing the principal risks that could threaten the delivery of our costs, quality and effectiveness.
We strategy, our performance and reputation.
The Board is also ultimately strive to operate as efficiently as possible responsible for monitoring and reviewing the processes and internal without compromising product quality or controls we operate to manage and mitigate such risks.
Further disturbing effective inventory information about the role and responsibilities of the Board is set management processes.
The Audit and Risk Committee supports the Board in monitoring Financial We have a low to moderate risk tolerance and reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management Low to moderate in respect of our financial processes.
We framework, which is developing and embedding in all our operations maintain financial controls to help ensure around the world.
that our financial processes are well designed, controlled and support accurate Risk appetite financial reporting to management, the The Board considers the level of risk that is appropriate for us to Board and external stakeholders.
We accept to achieve our strategic goals and business objectives on an have a low risk tolerance with respect to ongoing basis.
Our Treasury policies explicitly focus on asset security Our risk appetite is summarised in the adjacent panel.
as the principal concern in all Treasury transactions.
We aim to ensure that our Principal risks Treasury policies are always supportive Our principal risks, which the Board has assessed as part of our risk of underlying business activities while management framework, are set out on pages 36 to 43. being prohibitive of speculation via complex financial instruments.
We aim Supporting delivery of our strategy to keep tax risks low through the early In line with the development of our refreshed execution model, we assessment and appraisal of changes to have reviewed the risks that could impact our four strategic drivers.
tax legislation, business decisions and the As a result of this review, although the nature of our key risks has not external environment within which we altered, the substance and management of certain risks has changed.
We apply risk management For further information about our strategy, see page 28. controls over the Groups tax affairs and processes and monitor the effectiveness There are 11 principal risks and uncertainties 2017: nine including of tax compliance activities of all Group three new risks.
Two prior year risks have been combined into one.
Our tax arrangements are The new risks relate to Brexit, the attraction, engagement and derived from the commercial needs of retention of leadership talent and change and transformation.
In our business operating model, as terms of the risk profile: seven risks have increased, three have ConvaTec does not engage in artificial decreased and one has remained stable.
In addition our policies and procedures support this approach Other factors and are monitored by the tax team For further information about our market environment, see page 12. working closely with the business and other Group functions to ensure For further information about our key performance indicators, compliance and consistency.
Compliance We have an extremely low zero risk and safety tolerance with respect to any activities or Extremely low conduct that are not compliant with all zero anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws.
We promote the highest ethical standards and impose such standards on all employees, agents and contractors.
Similarly, we have an extremely low zero risk tolerance with regard to conduct that may compromise product quality or patient and employee safety.
34 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Brexit Brexit is now disclosed as a separate stand-alone risk.
Previously it Roles and responsibilities was included within the Macroeconomic and foreign exchange risk.
This change reflects the increased risk and uncertainty given the very short period of time before the UK exits the EU on 29 March Board 2019 and the current status of the Governments negotiations.
Oversees the Groups risk management framework.
Pending the conclusion of the negotiations we have assessed our Reviews the principal risks on a six-monthly basis.
Brexit-related risks and planned actions based on a number of Sets the Groups risk appetite.
Assesses whether the Groups risk profile accords with its risk appetite.
Risk management framework Oversees risk management processes.
The risk management framework was implemented in conjunction Horizon scans will be completed on a regular basis in with the Groups initial public offering in October 2016.
In the period accordance with the risk management framework.
since the IPO, the risk management processes have continued to evolve and mature through application coupled with increased levels of oversight from senior management and regular review by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The principal risks and uncertainties have been collated through Audit and Risk Committee a two-pronged process to collect risk information from across the Monitors, assesses and reviews the Groups internal control business.
The first process is bottom-up, which is the process of and risk management systems.
risk management at operational level and the second process is Assesses whether the Groups risk profile accords with its top-down, which is the governance of risk by the Board and the risk appetite.
The resulting list of principal risks are Reviews key risks on a regular basis.
reviewed and agreed by the senior management team overseen by Reviews internal audit reports on effectiveness of mitigations the Executive Committee, and reviewed and approved by the Audit and controls related to certain key risks.
and Risk Committee before being presented to, and discussed by Reports its findings and recommendations to the Board.
Further information about the role and responsibilities of the The Groups risk register is reviewed and maintained on an ongoing Audit and Risk Committee is set out on pages 90 to 98. basis by management, with the Board retaining oversight and responsibility over the risk register and the risk management process.
Executive Committee Depending on the nature of the risk, a variety of risk mitigation Undertakes top-down risk reviews and manages the risks.
measures are implemented including, for example, insurance, Reviews and approves bottom-up risks.
standardised processes, delegation of authorities, auditing and Participates in risk workshops to identify, evaluate and approve monitoring, succession plans, diversification in business and revenue the principal risks to ensure that all necessary actions, streams.
The Audit and Risk Committee assess the effectiveness mitigations and controls are being effectively applied to and applicability of the risk mitigation measures through the internal minimise residual risk exposure.
Each principal risk has a risk monitoring undertaken by various functions including Internal Audit, owner who is a member of the Executive Committee and is Legal and Compliance, Finance and IT.
Where the Audit and Risk accountable for overall management of the relevant risk and the Committee is unable to obtain assurance from internal monitoring associated mitigating actions.
functions, it requests deep dive presentations and discussions of Horizon scans will be completed on a regular basis in specific risks with relevant management.
For certain risks, the Board accordance with the risk management framework.
will also request deep dive presentations to examine the effectiveness of mitigating actions such as the presentation covering our Brexit plan.
Internal Audit and Enterprise Risk team Facilitates risk management workshops to collate top-down risks.
On an ongoing basis both the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee Reviews and collates bottom-up risks from operations, supports assess whether the Groups risk profile accords with the determined management and assesses when risks require escalation.
Prepares annual internal audit plan based on principal risks.
Reports to the Executive Committee and the Audit and Internal control Risk Committee.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal controls Supports the Executive Committee in fulfilling its risk and regularly reviews the processes the Group operates.
has delegated responsibility for monitoring and assessing the Assists operations management in embedding risk management effectiveness of the internal controls to the Audit and Risk Committee, processes and maintaining and improving them.
including operational and compliance controls, risk management and Reviews annually the effectiveness of the risk management compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
management framework assists in the ongoing process of the Boards identification, evaluation, and management of the Groups principal risks.
Operations management within Group functions, franchises and business units Undertakes day-to-day risk management activities.
Identifies risks, assesses the level of risk and determines when risks require escalation.
Identifies the current controls operating to mitigate the risk within a business area.
Identifies actions to be implemented to further mitigate and reduce the risk exposure.
Assigns risk owners to lead mitigation actions.
Assigns control owners to monitor the effectiveness of the control.
35 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties Detailed here is an overview of the principal risks we believe could threaten our strategy, performance and reputation and the actions we are taking to respond to and mitigate those risks.
Risk and oversight Link to strategy Potential impact Risk mitigation Risk profile change 1.
Change and transformation Simplify Failure to deliver our strategy, We have established Franchise Councils and The large and significant change and growth targets and market steering committees to enhance governance transformation programmes being expectations.
implemented across the Group do not deliver Failure to fully integrate new We have recruited additional resources to the required impact and results within our acquisitions could result in support key functions to proactively manage Segment planned timescale and budget.
inconsistent policies and risk, enable timely communications and management and costly activate contingency planning where needed.
Oversight and responsibility for managing operations, which could impede Senior management are focused on driving Board our ability to fully realise the a cultural change in relation to strategic CEO benefits of the acquisition.
decision-making, planning, execution and Invest Failure to deliver our efficiency review of key deliverables to ensure alignment programme could adversely against timelines, expectations and impact our ability to invest in our contingency planning.
infrastructure and the capabilities We have established a Transformation Initiative Risk profile required to improve our to oversee the execution of a number of key change during execution and delivery of our strategic projects.
We are also increasing our 2018 strategy and our ability to meet project management capabilities through the shareholders expectations.
recruitment of additional employees who are skilled in this area, and the engagement of specialist third-party project managers.
Attract, engage and Simplify Lack of appropriately skilled and We are implementing a new people strategy retain leadership talent experienced leaders, due to which is described on page 19.
Failing to attract, retain and align the right inability to attract and retain Talent management reviews are completed leadership talent to the value we seek to talented leadership could annually in May and are updated in October.
adversely impact our Key findings from both reviews are reported Segment performance and delay delivery to the Board.
We undertake employee surveys to monitor Oversight and responsibility for managing Loss of corporate knowledge due employee engagement.
Any issues are Board to poor retention of talented assessed and addressed by the People Executive Vice President, Human Resources employees.
Leadership Committee which has a global Invest People Leadership Committee Lack of top talent could impact membership.
the ability to develop effective Executive Committee members have succession plans for the future.
scorecards which include three people-related KPIs covering employee engagement, diversity Risk profile and inclusion and talent succession and change during retention.
2018 We seek to offer market competitive terms to ensure leadership talent is attracted, retained and remains engaged.
We undertake workforce planning: New performance, talent and succession initiatives: learning and development programmes: and we promote our culture and core values.
We assess and update our people processes regularly to ensure there is strong linkage between our talent and the value we seek to create, underpinned with robust performance management processes.
36 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Risk profile change Increase Stable Decrease Risk and oversight Link to strategy Potential impact Risk mitigation Risk profile change 3.
Brexit Simplify Border controls and tariff Our Brexit Steering Committee, which Brexit introduces a high level of uncertainty changes could cause supply chain includes representatives from all key regarding trading conditions which will impact delays and delivery of products to functions, has developed a plan to prepare for our EU and UK production plants and customers could be delayed.
Brexit based on the assessment of potential potentially our logistics hub based in the Trading performance could be impacts and possible mitigating actions.
Innovate Netherlands and our sales in all EU countries.
adversely impacted by increases The plan identified a number of actions which in tariffs on products and delays we are now implementing.
Further information Brexit may cause some key customers to in their global movement.
about these actions is set out on pages 10 significantly change and increase their Delay may be caused in the and 11.
Progress reports are regularly provided to the purchasing demands in the short term to build processing of product changes Segment their own safety stock piles to ensure supply by our Notified Body whilst Brexit Steering Committee which monitors the progress of the different workstreams continuity after 29 March 2019. migration of CE certifications is undertaken which, if not across the business and assesses our preparedness for post-Brexit trade.
Oversight and responsibility for managing addressed by increased supply Board Invest and production, could cause back The Brexit Steering Committee is monitoring the status of the Governments negotiations CEO orders and disruption to supply Brexit Steering Committee to customers.
and amending our approach where required.
Quality and Regulatory Affairs are continuing Product labelling requirements could be required as a result of to monitor the potential regulatory impact.
As Risk profile explained on page 11 we have commenced the regulatory changes.
change during Trading performance could be process with BSI UK to migrate our CE 2018 certifications for sales of products in the EU to adversely impacted by the potential instability of the global its sister company based in the Netherlands and expect the migration to be completed currency market and changes in foreign exchange rates.
The associated New product labelling changes are being made to Stockpiling by key customers could result in a reduction of our products that will not be placed on the market by 29 March 2019.
Further, a Group company inventory levels which, if not addressed by increased supply located within the EEA EU will be designated as the Authorised Representative in the EU for and production, could cause back orders and disruption to supply to those products where ConvaTec Limited is the legal manufacturer.
Our employees may encounter We have undertaken an indirect tax assessment in conjunction with an external delays or restrictions on their movements in Europe and advisor to establish the potential duty impact on the flow of our raw materials and products the UK.
that move in and out of the UK, and are taking actions to mitigate the tariff and custom charges.
We are working with the NHS supply chain and the Department of Health supply chain to assist with their contingency planning and understand their projected product demands.
The global supply chain and manufacturing team have modelled various possible scenarios of product demand to address border delays and regulatory delays and created contingency plans to manage projected impacts including appropriate stock positioning.
We have undertaken an initial review of the impact on our people and taking account of our skilled workforce and low levels of mobility between countries, we consider the impact to be limited.
37 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and oversight Link to strategy Potential impact Risk mitigation Risk profile change 4.
Legal and Compliance Segment The healthcare industry is heavily We implement a number of policies and We are a global company and must comply scrutinised by governmental procedures to reinforce our values and culture with complex and changing laws across bodies around the globe and including our Code of Conduct.
These regulations cover bribery, or other violations of We operate top-down leadership of a myriad of issues including anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, could result compliance initiatives through a compliance Invest corruption, market abuse and inside information.
in enforcement actions that could steering committee that is comprised of We must comply with obligations that arise as negatively impact our financial senior leadership.
a result of being a company listed on the position and reputation.
We provide ongoing compliance training for London Stock Exchange.
Enforcement actions related to all employees, including an annual attestation bribery could result in an inability and annual live training for customer-facing Risk profile Oversight and responsibility for managing to participate in tenders or sell employees.
change during Executive Vice President, General Counsel our products to entities that are We operate a confidential and anonymous 2018 and Corporate Development directly or indirectly reimbursed whistleblower hotline which is run by an Company Secretary reporting to the Board by a governmental body.
independent third party, and other vehicles Violations of anti-corruption laws to escalate complaints.
These channels are could result in criminal exposure available to all employees to report potential for our employees and cause breaches of our Code of Conduct.
material disruption to our We operate a global compliance risk assessment team and an annual monitoring operations.
Breaches of the Listing rules, programme.
We perform due diligence of third parties, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs, require training modules for distributors, audit select distributors in high-risk markets and the Market Abuse Regulation MAR and other associated undertake internal audit reviews of relationships with certain third parties and obligations relating to being a listed company could result in employee adherence to our Code of Conduct.
We have processes in place in relation to the enforcement actions that could negatively impact our financial classification and escalation of information that may constitute inside information and position and reputation.
These are set out in our Market Disclosure Policy which is available to all employees.
We also provide training as described on page 19.
Global Operational and Supply Chain Disruption in our operational We have business continuity plans in place A number of our key products are reliant on supply chain may result in for all facilities and key suppliers across our single source suppliers or manufacturing significant production delays franchises.
facilities which could be significantly impacted causing back orders, delays in We monitor our suppliers and locations via if there was an event that either resulted in delivery to customers, permanent a Risk Methods tool to identify potential Segment production delays or adversely impacted loss of customers and additional supply base risk.
Examples of such events costs.
We work closely with our Sustaining include extreme weather and availability of Disruption in our manufacturing Engineering Group to proactively assess and raw materials which could be increasingly facilities could adversely impact address risk.
impacted by climate change, natural disasters, quality and require product Our Sales Operation Planning Process seeks Invest political uncertainty and plant IT failure.
recalls which could impact our to balance supply with demand and facilitates reputation, increase costs and action in relation to constrained lines.
Oversight and responsibility for managing lead to permanent loss of When we relocate product manufacturing we Executive Vice President, Operations customers.
build additional inventory to cover transfer, Vice President Global Sourcing & Supply Risk profile Disruption within our supply start-up and registration time.
Chain change during chain could impact our ability to On an ongoing basis we review inventory Sustaining Engineering Group 2018 meet customers requirements against demand and regulatory timing to due to back orders which could minimise supply disruption risk and to ensure result in permanent loss of business continuity.
customers, reputational damage We operate procedures which enable and financial loss.
products to be shipped to and stored at Disruption in our operational regional distribution centres.
supply chain may impair our In 2018 we developed a new climate change ability to manufacture products strategy which seeks to limit the within our planned budget and environmental impact of our operations, result in lower profitability.
products and packaging and better identify business vulnerabilities driven by environmental issues.
We are monitoring the implementation of this strategy and progress reports are provided on a regular basis to the CR Committee.
38 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Risk and oversight Link to strategy Potential impact Risk mitigation Risk profile change 6.
Product Innovation and Intellectual Innovate Insufficient investment in R&D, We operate R&D centres of excellence and Property IP or incorrect allocation of assigned Franchise R&D organisations, which Our R&D centres do not develop safe, investment, or inadequate have been enhanced within our Franchise effective, profitable long lifetime products.
innovation, could adversely organisational model.
impact our ability to successfully In line with our refreshed execution model, Segment Our products do not address market needs.
develop and launch new products our product development process is being and our ability to deliver our improved to enhance the effectiveness of our We fail to successfully launch new, safe and strategy in future years.
effective products on a timely basis to achieve Unsuccessful product launches We continually test new products during their continued growth.
could adversely impact financial development to ensure their safety and Invest effectiveness.
We continually develop new performance in the year of launch We fail to maintain sufficient IP protection for as well as future years, as profit products to address the challenges of ageing product mix.
We continue to assess product our products and or our competitors fail to margins reduce on ageing respect our IP rights.
safety and effectiveness post-launch to ensure that our products best meet the needs of our Risk profile Delayed product launches could Oversight and responsibility for managing change during adversely impact financial customers.
We continue to invest in R&D, product Franchise Presidents 2018 performance compared to Franchise R&D and Legal planned forecast, as the new development and new product launches to cultivate an adequate product pipeline and to revenue streams may not be achieved.
We monitor and oppose competitor IP as Our competitors could secure or assert IP rights which negatively appropriate and conduct IP assessments throughout our R&D work and prior to impact the launch of our new product s and or our financial product launches to reduce the risk of IP litigation and blocking IP.
Our proprietary IP could be We pursue appropriate patent protection for our IP developments, defend against subject to misappropriation by a competitor, thereby reducing our opposition to our IP rights and monitor and assess market activity for violation of our IP competitive advantage.
Governmental entities could rights and whether to assert such rights.
We deploy internal protections against the require disclosure of our IP which may reduce our competitive improper dissemination of our confidential information, including IT protections and advantage or negatively impact our growth.
We deploy resources to limit the scope of any mandatory disclosure of our proprietary information to governmental organisations.
39 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and oversight Link to strategy Potential impact Risk mitigation Risk profile change 7.
Pricing and reimbursement Innovate Reductions in governmental We continue to drive manufacturing cost Globally while populations are growing older budgets, other changes to efficiencies to improve profit margin.
and the incidence of chronic conditions are government reimbursement We are developing multi-source material increasing, healthcare budgets are being policy or enhanced government vendors to leverage scale and reduce reduced.
This creates a natural need for cost audits, could adversely affect our dependencies.
financial performance and We focus on R&D and targeted bolt-on demand for our products which acquisitions to expand our market position Our financial performance and profitability could then impact our growth, in higher value spaces.
are reliant on continuing to sell our products our ability to innovate and could We focus on health economics and clinical profitably to our customers.
In line with other result in financial losses.
data to develop and clinically prove value Invest MedTech companies, we are heavily reliant on Due to our competitive markets propositions that save healthcare providers large private institutions and commercial our inability to increase product money while enhancing outcomes.
payers, including Group Purchasing prices could result in reduced We are continuing to invest in greater clinical Organisations GPOs and consolidated profitability if there are evidence and health economic studies to large healthcare systems Integrated Delivery Risk profile unforeseen increases in differentiate our products and prove economic Networks, all of which have consolidated change during operational costs such as foreign value and clinical effectiveness.
pricing power and, as they drive cost 2018 exchange rate movements.
We are completing portfolio rationalisation containment and lower prices, are reviews for early detection of low margin increasingly subjecting us to price pressure.
products to improve our product portfolio to higher value growth orientated spaces which Reimbursement rates for products sold into will help to reduce price compression.
the home care setting remain a risk as government or commercial payers try to manage and reduce their costs.
In addition we are facing challenges from consolidation of buying groups in the market place as well as competition from other product suppliers, both of which are increasing competition for sales and reducing prices and margins.
Oversight and responsibility for managing Franchises Presidents Regional Presidents 40 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Risk and oversight Link to strategy Potential impact Risk mitigation Risk profile change 8.
Forecasting Process Simplify Trading performance does not On an annual basis, as part of our financial Our commercial processes do not identify meet forecast and could result in planning processes, we prepare a Guidance or react to changes in market conditions or adverse trading results and issue Memorandum that contains budgeting and changes in customer demand on a timely basis of a profit warning.
forecasting assumptions including guidance which could lead to inaccurate forecasts and Issuance of a profit warning could on product costs, foreign exchange, new Segment announcement of unexpected and adverse cause significant harm to product launches, market share information, trading results to the market.
shareholder value and damage competitive activity, franchise strategies and our reputation with key operating expenses.
Our commercial and supply planning stakeholders and investors.
To drive effective communication and insight processes do not assess demand effectively Failure to meet budget and across all parts of our business, each month Invest and plan supply accordingly.
forecasts could restrict our ability we undertake an operating review process to raise finance in the future to which is led by the CFO and includes senior Our processes that link commercial planning support further growth and management and global supply chain.
to operational manufacturing and delivery development.
The monthly forecast review process utilises fail to respond to changes in demand on a Risk profile enhanced and consistent analytics and timely basis.
change during includes a broad range of sensitivity analysis.
2018 There is ongoing focus in relation to improving Oversight and responsibility for managing the depth and quality of management Global finance information and analysis available to the key Franchises stakeholders in the business.
A continuing iterative process of review, challenge and improvement has been adopted during the year.
The Executive Committee, their direct reports and other key functions including senior finance personnel receive training with regard to the identification of potentially inside information and the need to escalate appropriately.
Refresher training, covering the relevant provisions of MAR, the Listing rules and DTRs and their implications on reporting, is provided on an ongoing basis to the Executive Committee and key individuals.
The Board receive advice on the consideration of potentially inside information from the Company Secretary, the Companys brokers and external lawyers.
We provide guidance about inside information as part of our annual operational planning process and reforecasting process.
The metrics, processes and reporting in relation to the sales and operational planning S&OP process are being reviewed and amended to ensure alignment between commercial planning and supply planning.
The S&OP team meet regularly to discuss gaps and trends to ensure that they are addressed in a timely manner.
41 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and oversight Link to strategy Potential impact Risk mitigation Risk profile change 9.
Information security Simplify A major cyber incident causing We are implementing a security improvements Risk of loss of our IP, sensitive business data or a prolonged loss of IT services plan to better secure critical manufacturing fraud following a phishing or cyber-attack.
could significantly disrupt our systems including encryption, network business and adversely impact separation and deployment of a secure Failure to comply with General Data financial performance.
Segment Protection Regulation GDPR which has A cyber-attack could result in We deploy internal and external resources significantly raised the requirements data loss and possible breach of to address cyber security risks, including organisations must comply with to embed the GDPR regulations, resulting commissioning independent cyber data privacy and information security controls in a potentially significant fine, assessments.
thereby materially impacting the We obtained the Cyber Essentials Plus Invest Groups financial performance.
Oversight and responsibility for managing A major cyber incident could During the year we introduced two factor CFO result in significant adverse authentication and increased internet browser Chief Information Officer publicity which may damage our security.
Risk profile brand and reputation.
We operate a cross-functional steering change during Non-compliance with GDPR committee that assesses and reviews on an 2018 regulations could result in ongoing basis new and emerging information adverse reporting and could security and cyber risks and implements damage our reputation.
measures designed to protect sensitive data and our systems.
We conduct periodic reviews of our networks and stored data to ensure highly sensitive data is maintained in secure locations.
The GDPR compliance programme continues to be implemented with a focus on embedding data privacy throughout the organisation.
A risk assessment of data protection practices has been conducted Europe-wide.
Markets and functions are implementing further actions to strengthen the control environment.
Macroeconomic and foreign exchange Segment Movements in exchange rates Diversification of trading across many FX between foreign currencies and geographies reduces our reliance upon any We are a UK-headquartered group, reporting the US dollar our reporting single market.
in US dollars and trading globally.
Therefore, currency could have a negative We run sensitivity analysis based on FX our financial performance and results could effect on our financial movements which provide management with Invest be adversely impacted by changes in performance.
estimates of the impact of FX movements on macroeconomics, particularly FX and interest A negative economic climate in our financial results.
our key markets could contribute We carry out monthly forecasting, to reduced demand for our management reporting and operational As we operate across the globe, changes in tax products and negatively impact processes which enable us to detect potentially Risk profile law and regulations, such as the US tax reform, revenue.
adverse FX trends and develop strategies to change during the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting A negative economic climate offset the impact on our financials.
2018 BEPS and Brexit, impact our tax liabilities could result in governments We are improving the robustness of the including duties and or tariffs and increase reducing their spending budgets strategic planning process that monitors filing requirements and obligations.
and or individual income which market and regulatory developments and could reduce sales of our enables us to develop strategies to manage products.
the impact on our business.
Oversight and responsibility for managing Disruption in the financial In overall terms our aim is to maintain fixed CFO reporting to the Audit and Risk markets could adversely affect rate debt for no less than 25% and no more Committee our suppliers, increase our than 75% of the Groups total debt.
purchasing costs and impact our We are implementing an appropriate and financial performance.
Audit and Risk Committee approved FX risk Changes in macroeconomics management policy to cover balance sheet could result in increases in exposures.
The Treasury Committee will review performance on at least a quarterly basis.
interest rates that could increase the cost of servicing loans and Our Group tax function works closely with our businesses and external advisors to constantly reduce our financial performance.
Adverse changes in tax rates or review the changes in the tax environment in which we operate to ensure that we are law could increase the amount of tax due and payable.
This could compliant and report the correct tax position.
be linked with an increase in filing obligations in various jurisdictions and the need to retain additional in-house documentation to support our commercial transactions.
The failure to comply could result in tax penalties and increased tax audits.
42 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Risk and oversight Link to strategy Potential impact Risk mitigation Risk profile change 11.
Quality and Regulatory Simplify Defects in the quality of our Throughout each phase of our product There is a risk that our products are unsafe products arising from either development process we monitor product and cause, or have the potential to cause, harm design or production could result manufacturing and implement timely to the people who use them.
in harm to users of our products corrective action s where necessary.
and adversely impact our Relevant employees are trained on policies Innovate We operate across multiple and diverse reputation and our brand.
and procedures related to manufacturing and jurisdictions which set operational regulations Harm to users of our products adverse event handling.
could result in fines, product We operate processes to manage product recalls, the disposal of impacted complaints.
Inadequate procedures for monitoring product stock, production We maintain records for all products including Segment manufacturing facilities compliance with the interruption and plant shut evidence of development, testing, product and provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and downs.
These events could process qualification and market clearance.
Cosmetic Act or MDR resulting in fines and adversely impact financial We coordinate regulatory approvals on an civil penalties, injunctions and criminal performance through increased ongoing basis, including scheduling prosecution.
These regulations cover the Invest costs and loss of sales.
appropriate review periods with regulatory development, manufacture, clinical trialling, Regulatory approval processes bodies in advance of certification labelling, launch of products and regulatory could delay, or otherwise requirements.
approvals, marketing and sale of products.
negatively impact, the marketing We deploy processes which aim to ensure that all regulatory and clinical trial requirements and sale of our products which Risk profile Inadequate processes for creating and could impact our growth.
are considered and addressed prior to change during product launch.
managing Quality System documentation Failure to obtain appropriate 2018 and master data resulting in an inability to regulatory clearances upon a Relevant employees are trained on processes related to regulatory clearances, marketing demonstrate compliance and or control.
change to a product, could result in negative regulatory action claims related to products and regulatory inspections.
There is a risk that developed products and or impacting our ability to market packaging do not meet regulation and or and sell products.
We employ regional regulatory specialists with local expertise in all our major markets to societal expectation in relation to Regulatory scrutiny could delay environmental standards.
product launches or negatively facilitate regulatory clearance.
We deploy processes to ensure marketing disrupt our operations.
Oversight and responsibility for managing collateral receives thorough and adequate review prior to launch in relevant jurisdictions.
Executive Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory Affairs and Clinical We are working with our Notified Body and external consultants to adapt our quality QARAC Chair of the Non-Conformance system processes and technical documentation to implement the required Corrective Action Preventive Action review board changes and ensure compliance with MDR.
43 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
