Risk management OPTIMISING OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Countryside has policies and procedures in The Groups risk register is maintained to record What mitigating actions are available and place for the timely identification, assessment all principal risks and uncertainties identified in which are cost effective?
and prioritisation of the Groups material risks each part of the business.
A member of the What is the degree of residual risk and is it and uncertainties.
This section describes how Executive Committee is allocated, as appropriate, within the Groups risk appetite parameters?
these risks are identified, managed and mitigated as the risk owner for each risk.
The risk owners appropriately in order to deliver the Groups call upon the appropriate expertise to conduct Has the risk assessment changed and what strategic objectives.
an analysis of each risk, according to a defined isexpected to change going forward?
set of assessment criteria which includes: The RMC reviews the assessments made, How we manage risk How does the risk relate to the Groups compares it to the Groups appetite for each Risk identification and management is built into business model and or strategy?
risk, reviews the current level of preparedness every aspect of Countrysides daily operations, and determines whether further actions or What is the likelihood of the risk occurring?
ranging from the appraisal of new sites, assessment resource are required.
In reviewing and agreeing of the prospects of planning success, building What is the potential impact were the risk the mitigating actions, the RMC considers the safely and selling effectively to achieve long-term to occur?
impact of risks individually and in combination, success through the property market cycle.
in both the short and the longer term.
Would the consequences be Risk management is built into standardised short-, mediumor long-term?
processes for each part of the business at every stage of the housebuilding process.
Our approach to risk Financial risk is managed centrally through maintenance of a strong balance sheet, forward selling new homes and the careful allocation offunds to the right projects, at the right time The Board and in the right locations.
Risk management also includes the internal controls described Role and responsibilities within the corporate governance report Sets the Group strategy onpages 48 to 53.
Determines the Groups risk policy and the procedures that are put in place to mitigate exposure torisk The Risk Management Committee RMC Regularly monitors Group risks meets four times a year and provides a focal Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control procedures point for the coordination of the Groups risk management efforts.
Its membership comprises all members of the Executive Committee and itis chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
Audit Committee The standing business of the RMC Role and responsibilities includesreviewing: Has delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk management and internal financial controls the Group risk register, mitigation plans and internal controls: Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reporting process Monitors the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and the independence of the external audit for each risk, the assessment of gross and net risk versus risk appetite: the Internal Audit plan and reports: Risk Management Internal Audit the management of claims litigation: Committee the forecast impact and preparation Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities forproposed and new legislation: Determines the appropriate controls for the Undertakes independent reviews of the key policies and risk mitigation documentation timely identification and management of risk effectiveness of internal control procedures e. g. start onsite or land acquisition check Manages the Groups risk register Reports on effectiveness of management actions lists : and Monitors the effective implementation of Provides assurance to the Audit Committee total cost of risk against insurance and actionplans bondrequirements.
Reviews reports from the Internal Audit function At each RMC meeting, a different principal risk is also reviewed in depth by the RMC.
Adescription of the key areas of risk considered Executive Committee during 2018 is set out below.
A review of the principal risks is also a standing Role and responsibilities agenda item for all regional business board Responsible for identification of operational and strategic risks meetings.
All such board meetings are attended Responsible for ownership and control of specific risks by the relevant Divisional CEO, whoin turn feeds back any matters requiring consideration Responsible for establishing and managing the implementation of appropriate action plans by members ofthe RMC.
38 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Strategic report A number of reasonable assumptions are Key areas of focus during 2018 Westleigh acquisition included within these assessments, including: On 12 April 2018, Countryside announced the Market acquisition of Westleigh Group Limited and its that the Groups debt facility, which expires Given the planned continued growth of subsidiaries together Westleigh.
An integration in 2023, will continue to be available on the Countryside, the Board, Executive Committee team was established, consisting of key financial same or similar basis throughout the period and RMC have spent considerable time during and operational leaders from both Countryside under review: 2018 to ensure that the Groups mixed-tenure and Westleigh, who are overseeing a detailed approach and product mix are best suited to that, following a material event, the Group integration plan to progressively and safely bring ensure we maintain affordability and serve the would adjust its strategy accordingly to Westleigh into compliance with Countrysides areas of strongest demand.
In order to better preserve cash.
This would include, inter alia, policies and procedures.
This will result in monitor potential changes in market risk, suspending the purchase of land, changing considerable strengthening of a number of management has engaged Lazarus Economics the build profile of existing developments Westleighs compliance functions, including & Strategy, an independent economics advisor, oradjusting Group dividend policy: health and safety, legal, environmental and quality.
to provide a rigorous and detailed statistical analysis of a broad range of indicators across that counterparties including local Viability Statement authoritiesand housing associations the UK and the geographies in which Countryside operates.
honoured the phased viability terms and The following statement is made in accordance conditions contained in a number of the with the UK Corporate Governance Code Brexit Groups Partnerships contracts: and April 2016 provision C. 2.2.
After considering A detailed review was undertaken to assess the current position of the Company, the the assumption that the Group will be Countrysides exposure to risks that may flow Directors have assessed the prospects and ableto effectively mitigate risks through from the United Kingdoms departure from the viability of the Company over a three-year enacted or available actions, as described EU Brexit.
Plans have been formulated to period to September 2021.
In making this inthe Principal risks and uncertainties put in place mitigating actions to reduce risks, statement, the Board has performed a robust section of this report.
covering areas such as the supply of materials assessment of the principal risks facing the and labour, the availability of capital and potential Company, including those risks that would The sensitivity analysis is performed based on changes to Government regulation and policy.
assumptions modelled on the 2007 to 2009 threaten Countrysides business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal period, adjusted for changes in Countrysides Government policy risks facing Countryside and how the Company business divisions, during which the Housebuilding andregulatorychange addresses such risks are described in this sector saw significant reductions in sales rates The RMC and Board have spent considerable Strategic Report and are summarised in the and average selling prices and illiquidity in the time to determine actions required to prepare Principal risks and uncertainties section of land market during a prolonged economic recession.
for and address significant changes inGovernment These assumptions include, inter alia, a 1520 this report.
potential regulation and policy in areas such as per cent fall in house prices, upto50 per cent Although longer-term forecasts are prepared the continuing availability of Help to Buy, building reduction in sales rates and10 per cent build to support the strategic planning process, the regulations following the Grenfell tower fire cost inflation, offset byreductions of up to nature of the risks and opportunities faced by tragedy in June 2017 and leasehold reform 75per cent of land purchases and up to the Group limits the Directors ability to reliably following the Government announcement on 20percent in salary costs.
Accordingly, a three-year 21 December 2017 on measures to tackle horizon is used to allow for a greater degree It considers all of our principal risks, although unfair leasehold practices.
our assumption that we will be able to effectively Attracting and retaining talent mitigate some of our risks leads toagreater The Directors assessment includes a financial emphasis on those risks that arebeyond our The success of Countrysides business and review, which is derived from the Groups control such as external macroeconomic factors.
growth depends on recruiting, retaining and strategic forecasts and identifies divisional developing highly-skilled, competent people business performance, expected cash flows, Having had due regard to the sensitivity atall levels of the organisation.
During 2018 net debt headroom and funding covenant analysis, the Directors have concluded that considerable effort has been made to ensure compliance throughout the three years under there is a reasonable expectation that the that Countryside is able to participate and win review.
These forecasts also incorporate Company will be able to continue in operation in the competition for talent.
This has included severebut plausible downside case scenarios, and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the the extension of flexible benefits, improved illustrating the potential impact upon viability period of theassessment.
study support, enhanced maternity and paternity ofone or more of the Groups principal risks policies, personal and professional development crystallising during the period, both individually and training, enlarged graduate and apprenticeship Ian Sutcliffe and in combination.
schemes, additional recruitment resources and Group Chief Executive the determination to implement feedback 20 November 2018 obtained from the biannual employee survey.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 39 Risk management continued Board, Audit Committee and Risk Current assessment of principal risks Management Committee responsibility The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups risk register and the assessment of the Groups 5 6 principal risks and uncertainties prepared by the Risk Management Committee at 7 3 4 1 2 itsmeetings in July and October 2018.
TheAudit Committee also considered the effectiveness of the Groups systems, and has taken this into account in preparing the Viability Statement on the previous page.
The Audit Committee reported on its findings at the Boards July and October 2018 meetings, in order to support it in making its confirmation that it had carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks.
Unlikely Occasional Likely Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups principal risks are monitored Likelihood by the Risk Management Committee, theAudit Committee and the Board.
Risk pre and post mitigation Thegraph to the right provides the Pre-mitigation Post-mitigation Pre and post-mitigation Groups assessment of its principal risks following mitigation.
The table below setsout the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and mitigation.
Risk and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Impact on strategy 1.
Adverse A decline in macroeconomic Funds are allocated between the Housebuilding and conditions, or conditions in the Partnerships businesses.
macroeconomic UKresidential property market, can conditions In Housebuilding, land is purchased based on planning reduce the propensity to buy homes.
Risk change prospects, forecast demand and market resilience.
Responsible Executive: Higher unemployment, interest rates Group Chief Executive and inflation can affect consumer In Partnerships, contracts are phased and, where possible, confidence and reduce demand subject to viability testing.
Constraints on In all cases, forward sales, cash flow and work in progress are mortgage availability, or higher costs carefully monitored to give the Group time to react to of mortgage funding, may make it changing market conditions.
more difficult to sell homes.
Risk and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Impact on strategy 2.
Adverse changes Adverse changes to Government The potential impact of changes in Government policy and to Government policy in areas such as tax, housing, new laws and regulations are monitored and communicated the environment and building throughout the business.
policy and regulations may result in increased regulation Risk change Detailed policies and procedures are in place to address the costs and or delays.
Responsible Executive: comply with laws and regulations Group Company could expose the Group to Secretary and General penalties and reputational damage.
Counsel Risk and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Impact on strategy 3.
Constraints on Costs may increase beyond budget Optimise use of standard house types and design to due to the reduced availability of maximise buying power.
construction skilled labour or shortages of resources Use of strategic suppliers to leverage volume price reductions sub-contractors or building materials Risk change and minimise unforeseen disruption.
Responsible Executive: at competitive prices to support Chief Executive theGroups growth ambitions.
Robust contract terms to control costs.
Partnerships North TheGroups strategic geographic expansion may be at risk if new supply chains cannot be established.
40 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Impact Low Moderate Significant Strategic report Risk and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Impact on strategy 4.
Programme delay Failure to secure timely planning The budgeted programme for each siteisapproved by the permission on economically viable Divisional Board beforeacquisition.
rising project terms or poor project forecasting, complexity Sites are managed as a portfolio tocontrol overall Group unforeseen operational delays Risk change delivery risk.
Responsible Executive: dueto technical issues, disputes Chief Executive with third-party contractors or Weekly monitoring at both divisional and Group level.
Partnerships South suppliers, bad weather or changes inpurchaser requirements may cause delay or potentially termination of project.
Risk and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Impact on strategy 5.
Inability to Competition or poor planning may A robust land appraisal process ensures each project is result in a failure to procure land in financially viable and consistent with the Groups strategy.
source and develop the right location, at the right price suitable land and at the right time.
Risk change Responsible Executive: Chief Executive Housebuilding Risk and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Impact on strategy 6.
Inability to attract Inability to attract and retain highly Remuneration packages are regularly benchmarked against skilled, competent people at all industry standards toensure competitiveness.
and retain talented levels could adversely affect the employees Succession plans are in place for all keyroles within the Group.
Groups results, prospects and Risk change Responsible Executive: financial condition.
Exit interviews are used to identify anyareas for improvement.
Group HR Director Risk and impacts How we monitor and manage the risk Impact on strategy 7.
Inadequate health, A deterioration in the Groups Procedures, training and reporting are all carefully monitored health, safety and environmental to ensure that high standards are maintained.
safety and standards could put the Groups environmental An environmental risk assessment is carried out prior to any employees, contractors or the Risk change procedures land acquisition.
general public at risk of injury or Responsible Executive: death and could lead to litigation Appropriate insurance is in place to cover the risks associated Group Company orpenalties or damage the with housebuilding.
Secretary and General Counsel Note The Risk Management Committees review of risk, including Impact on our strategy Risk change the principal risks, takes into account the known and forecast developments flowing from plans being made for the UKs GROWTH Risk increased planned exit from membership of the European Union by March 2019 Brexit.
Brexit affects many of the principal RETURNS No change risks, but particularly those marked with an asterisk.
RESILIENCE Risk decreased Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 41
