Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 169 Strategic, business and financial performance risk Robust strategy development and monitoring Strategic, business and financial Mitigation measures Strategy is delivered within a performance risk is the risk of significant CYBG was divested from NAB and listed in well-defined risk appetite and loss of earnings or damage arising from February 2016, but strategic changes RMF with continual business decisions that impact the longnecessary for success when independent monitoring in place.
term interests of the Groups stakeholders were assessed over a prolonged prior or from an inability to adapt to external period.
Moreover, CYBG has a long history developments.
as a full service UK bank and benefits from an experienced Board and Executive Risk appetite Leadership Team, such that the overall The Group intends to grow and increase strategy has evolved through a mature and share in target markets, and has clear robust process.
strategies for its business model and for The Groups risk appetite represents a risk target customers and products, but it has envelope against which chosen strategies no appetite to achieve its targets in an and financial plans are assessed and within unsustainable fashion, or one which may which chosen strategies must operate.
The result in damaging outcomes for the RAS, and associated risk appetite Group, its customers or other stakeholders.
framework, is therefore a key means of controlling strategic risk.
The risk appetite Exposures framework comprises an extensive system The Group operates amid intense, of measures, thresholds and other controls, increasing competition.
Peer and which together ensure that the Group challenger banks, some with innovative operates within the Boards approved business models and low cost bases, such as appetite for strategic risk.
fast-growing peer-to-peer lenders and crowd funders, allied with rapid Monitoring technological change, notably in payments A range of financial and non-financial and mobile banking, present a fast-evolving, metrics, including RoTE, lending growth, challenging environment.
These trends and customer acquisition, NIM and others, are new regulations also necessitate a large key performance indicators used to change agenda, which diverts management monitor performance relative to strategic attention, imposes costs and which may not objectives.
They are monitored against the deliver expected benefits.
Financial Plan by the Groups Board and At the same time, the low interest rate Executive Leadership Team, who react to environment constrains income, reduces deviations from targets and modify margins and, by inhibiting capital strategy accordingly.
generation, reduces strategic room for manoeuvre.
As such, income growth and margin expectations over the Groups planning horizon are balanced, highlighting that this environment contributes to significant business risk, the risk that Group net income fails to grow as targeted, or falls.
