122 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk report Risk report Underpinning the RMF and at the heart of Effective management of Risk principles the Groups risk culture, is the concept of risk is a key capability for a The Groups approach to risk management personal accountability for risk is based on the principle that risk successful financial services management at source.
This is enabled management capability must be embedded provider and is fundamental through a risk management accountability across all areas of the Group to be model and a formal delegation framework to the Groups strategy.
This overriding principle embodies through which colleagues are able to make The Group has continued the following concepts: risk-based decisions.
to advance and strengthen commercial decisions are made on the its risk management basis of proactive consideration of risk Risk strategy and the potential impact on customers: capabilities, evolving in line The Group has a clearly defined strategy in with industry developments business managers use the RMF to order to manage and mitigate risk in the support decision making involving risk daily course of its business.
The strategy and best practice.
and reward trade-offs: and consists of: colleagues are responsible for risk ensuring all principal, top and emerging management in their day-to-day risks are identified and assessed: activities.
ensuring risk appetite is clearly articulated and influences the Groups Risk culture strategic plan: Central to the risk culture is the safety and a clearly defined risk culture which soundness of the Group, the fair treatment emphasises risk management throughout of customers and meeting obligations to all areas of the business while maintaining stakeholders, including shareholders, independent oversight: regulators and colleagues.
The Board and ongoing analysis of the environment in senior management are responsible for which the Group operates to proactively setting and clearly communicating a strong address potential risk issues as they risk culture through their actions and arise: and words, and proactively addressing any identified areas of weakness or concern.
supporting commercial decisions and people with appropriate risk processes, Culture is shaped by many aspects including systems and controls.
tangible components such as: the Groups code of conduct: operating principles: policies: standards: the risk management RAS operating model: and an approved Risk appetite is defined as the level and articulation of risk appetite that aligns to, types of risk the Group is willing to assume and supports, the strategic objectives of to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Group strives to instil a articulates and supports communication of culture that supports compliance with all the Groups appetite to stakeholders.
This is relevant laws, codes and policies and builds important as it provides the definitive view constructive regulatory relationships.
of risk taking activity the Board is Initiatives that support appropriate risk comfortable with the Group undertaking culture include: the performance and allows decision makers including those management framework with all areas with delegated authority and also those required to have a risk management providing oversight to exercise judgement objective, messaging from the CEO and with greater confidence and speed.
members of the Executive Leadership The RAS aligns to the risks identified and Team emphasising the importance of risk defined in the RMF.
The design and identification, management and mitigation structure of the RAS has taken into and the formal whistleblowing framework consideration best practice articulated by that allows colleagues to raise concerns the European Central Bank which is aimed about matters of conduct in confidence at ensuring Boards should be strongly and anonymously.
involved in the validation process and monitoring of the RAS.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Ongoing maintenance of Financial The Groups RAS is prepared by the Group Structural reform Crime Framework Chief Risk Officer with consideration of the Throughout 2018, the Group has been The Groups Financial Crime Framework strategic objectives and business model, as taking steps to manage the impact of has been maintained and improved through well as the environment in which the structural reform requirements ringthe introduction of additional systems and Group operates.
Reporting to Executive fencing and operational continuity in controls to mitigate the ongoing risks.
A Committees and Board includes details of resolution.
There is very little impact on key outcome of these changes has been performance against relevant RAS settings, customers arising from the Groups improvements in customer experience.
structural reform compliance activities because there is no need for material Priorities for 2019 change to business operations or Risk policies and procedures Integration of Virgin Money corporate structures.
The policy framework is a key component 2019 will be a period of planning for Cyber resilience of the Groups RMF providing structure integration and this will include how the The Group continues to invest in our and governance for the consistent and RAS and RMF is applied across the people, processes and systems to mitigate effective management of policies.
It is of paramount the growing and continued risks posed by developing the policy framework the importance the Group achieves integration cyber criminals.
While the Group has been Group sets the tone that demonstrates the of risk frameworks that maintain the subject to external attack over the course risk culture expected across the strength and stability of the Group for the of the year, its defences have proven organisation.
This aligns with the safety and soundness of our customers.
effective and it has minimised any behavioural expectations for all colleagues disruption to customers and colleagues.
IRB journey which form a core part of our performance The Group will continue to embed management approach.
Policy statements Refresh of the Risk Management management of its business as an IRB firm, and supporting policy standards define the Framework RMF supporting business growth in a prudent minimum control requirements which must The Group has ensured that the RMF and sustainable manner.
This will include be observed across the Group to manage remains fit for purpose for the evolving leveraging IRB capabilities to augment and material sources of risk within risk appetite.
nature of its activities through the strengthen credit measurement introduction of improvements to the way techniques, systems, decisioning capabilities Achievements in 2018 that it manages identified issues and has and risk return considerations at both Progressing the IRB journey also initiated an end to end view of the risks portfolio and transactional level.
PRA In April 2017, the Group submitted an associated with critical processes.
It has also approval for use of the Retail Unsecured application to the PRA for permission to refreshed and updated its range of Policies IRB models in the calculation of regulatory adopt the IRB approach for the calculation and Policy Standards, most notably in capital is being targeted for 2019. of Credit Risk Weighted Assets RWAs.
This relation to Change Management, Thirdwas followed with model submissions for Party Management and Data Management, Balance sheet risks mortgages, SME corporate, Specialist to continue to minimise risk exposure The Group remains focused on maintaining Lending Commercial Real Estate and through consistent application of minimum balance sheet strength with particular Unsecured Retail portfolios.
attention being paid to the regulatory the use of the IRB models for the mortgage developments that are completing CRD IV Regulatory developments and SME corporate portfolios was obtained and MREL.
The Group implemented a wide in October 2018.
The programme has also programme of systems and process RMF enhancement supported the credit impairment element changes to comply with new regulations The Group will continue to enhance the of the IFRS 9 requirements developing the and requirements from its relevant core elements of the RMF to ensure that it required model and calculation engine regulators and also enhanced information remains fit for purpose for the changing capability to support implementation from and services for its customers.
The Group internal landscape and for the dynamic, and 1 October 2018. has maintained good progress on past at times unpredictable, external TSA exits remediation commitments and its plan for environment.
For FY2019 the Group has Significant progress has been made across closure of these issues.
made more explicit references to key risk all TSA exit projects.
These projects are to areas such as vulnerable customers, data Acquisition of Virgin Money complete the migration from legacy privacy and model risk, as well as reThe Groups regulators approved the systems provided by the Groups former enforcing the expected control monitoring application for Change in Control relative parent company NAB.
The exit of the TSA and testing activity that should be to the acquisition of Virgin Money and for the calculation and reporting of RWAs completed by the business areas, and the related entities.
This was testament to the was completed on schedule in November additional assurance expectations of policy quality of the submission and the detailed 2017 through implementation of a new standard owners over key controls.
The key remaining projects are in respect of Treasury related systems and are due to be completed around the end of 2018.
124 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk report Risk report Conduct risk Consumer credit Top and emerging risks The Group will continue to develop its The Group maintains an awareness of the The Group monitors the environment in approach and capabilities for managing risk of significant credit losses occurring which it operates to identify top and conduct risks, and remain focused on within a short time period which would have emerging risks that may have an impact on completing legacy remediation, including a detrimental impact on earnings and its operations and strategy.
The Group addressing PPI complaints through to the profitability.
Credit risk strategies, appetite currently considers its top and emerging FCA deadline in August 2019. and tolerance levels are reviewed and risks to be: approved by the Board and regular Cyber resilience monitoring of the credit portfolio, including In order to support the Groups digital Geopolitical and macroeconomic risk sensitivity analysis and reviews of asset ambitions, it will continue to invest in its environment quality metrics, is undertaken to ensure cyber resilience defences.
The Group The Group is exposed to a variety of early identification and mitigation of engages in cross industry forums and downstream risks resulting from the potential risks.
Unsecured consumer lending government initiatives to ensure that it can geopolitical environment, which have is an area of considerable regulatory focus assess and quickly address new threats and significant business relevance.
With a and one where the Group is particularly it regularly stress tests its controls and predominantly UK-based customer profile, alert to the potential regulatory, economic response frameworks in order that it is the Group continues to monitor credit and customer impacts.
New strategies have ready in the event of a material incident portfolios closely.
Regular assessments of been delivered in response to revised occurring.
strategic plans, risk appetite and risk regulatory requirements and reviews are sensitivity analysis are undertaken to Regulatory change underway to address further, future change.
minimise and negate potential impacts.
The Group continues to respond positively to the changing regulatory requirements Cybersecurity and IT The UK vote to leave the EU Brexit and seeks to comply with all regulations as With increasing levels of attempted cyber There is ongoing monitoring of the UKs they continue to evolve, and as customer attacks across the industry, the Group withdrawal from the EU, with negotiations remains vigilant, and acknowledges the expectations continue to develop.
creating significant economic uncertainty potential risks of such attacks including: The Group is subject to ring-fencing and a potential negative impact for the UK service interruption, data loss, customer legislation.
There is very little impact on macroeconomy.
The Group continues to and financial detriment and reputational customers arising from the Groups consider all potential consequences for its damage.
The Group continues to enhance ring-fencing compliance activities because customers, products and operating model and invest in the control environment, there is no need for material change to with mitigating actions in place as recognising the changing cyber landscape, business operations or corporate appropriate.
The uncertainty and related and the increased focus on digital structures.
Ring-fencing legislation applies pace of change is being monitored closely capabilities, as well as the changing risk from 1 January 2019. and the Group will react appropriately profile of the business.
having given consideration to both The Group intends to continue improving potential and actual outcomes, customer Financial crime including cybercrime its capabilities and service offerings for its and other stakeholder implications.
The Group, in conjunction with the wider customers through its principal customer industry, continues to be subject to channels and will continue to invest to Competition increasing fraud attacks.
In response, the meet all further new regulatory The financial services industry is a highly Group continues to enhance its fraud requirements that continue through 2019. competitive environment.
The emergence defences with particular focus on Economic crime of new entrants and regulatory initiatives, behavioural analysis tools.
The In December 2017, the Home Office such as Open Banking, may lead to material management of financial crime remains a introduced a series of measures to reform changes in the future provision of financial key area of regulatory focus and the Group economic crime.
The Group recognises both the continues to enhance its framework for continues to respond positively to a risks and opportunities resulting from the monitoring, management and mitigation of challenging timeline of legal and regulatory changes and continues to develop financial crime.
Industry engagement strategies, products and technologies to relative to these changes is ongoing and is ensure it can take strategic advantage key to ensuring there is appropriate where possible and mitigate any analysis, impact assessment and corresponding risks.
Principal risk categories See page 17 in the Strategic report for details on the Groups principal risk categories.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Risk Reporting and Escalation Protocols, including Incidents CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Regulatory capital change Third-party suppliers Risk Management Framework The Group, in common with the financial The Group acknowledges an increased risk RMF services industry as a whole, continues to associated with the use of third parties to The Group identifies and manages risk face a significant agenda of regulatory and perform core functions.
The Group using the RMF see diagram below, which legislative change, including those continues to enhance its third-party is the totality of systems, structures, pertaining to taxes.
The Group continues management framework and ensures that policies, processes and people that identify, to monitor the emerging requirements and the procurement of service providers measure, evaluate, control, mitigate, ensure it is well placed to respond with adheres to these requirements.
monitor and report all internal and external effective regulatory change management.
The Basel Committee published their final Basel III framework in December 2017.
A key objective of the revisions is to reduce excessive variability of RWAs and improve 3.
Monitor risks manage events the comparability of banks capital ratios.
Risk Culture and Governance Implementation dates range from 2022 to 2027 and the Committee has introduced Roles and Responsibilities: Three Lines of Defence transitional arrangements to ensure an orderly and timely implementation.
The Strategic Planning, including Risk Appetite Setting Group will be advised of its final MREL requirements by 2020 and the outcome Risk Appetite Framework may result in additional costs to those that have already been incorporated into the Policy Framework Groups Strategic Plan.
Frameworks, Risk Systems, Policies and Standards to manage Principal Risks: Integrating Virgin Money Credit Risk The risks associated with the acquisition of Strategic, Business and Financial Performance Risk Virgin Money have been described in detail Conduct Risk Regulatory and Compliance Risk in the prospectus to the transaction.
The Operational Risk, including Resilience and Information Security acquisition represents a significant People Risk Financial Crime Risk programme of change requiring prudent Balance Sheet and Prudential Regulation Risks management in order to deliver the benefits from the transaction.
There is a risk that issues arise during integration that Control Effectiveness Statement may lead to additional costs or a delay in the realisation of benefits.
Report programme places customers interests at the centre of all aspects of change.
Risk Management Core Components Risk Management Cycle Risk infrastructure Risk culture Customer detriment The Group acknowledges the continued During the year the Group completed a Risk governance and oversight risk of historic customer detriment and the review of the executive committee layer in The Groups risk governance structure risk of issues not being accurately identified the risk governance structure to ensure it strengthens risk evaluation and at an early stage due to failures to adhere balances regulatory, legal and compliance management, while also positioning the to, or maintain, a robust control framework, obligations while making timely, customer Group to manage the changing regulatory leading to potential customer treatment or focused decisions that drive the business environment in an efficient and effective fairness issues.
The Group ensures that the forward.
underlying framework is robust and continues to work closely with its The Groups risk management is governed Regulators.
via a series of committees, as represented within the diagram which follows.
Service interruption and operational resilience There is a reputational risk and or adverse impact on customer confidence which may result from service interruption to critical operational services.
The Group continues to strengthen resilience in its platforms and make upgrades to its core data networks in a bid to mitigate this risk.
Risk, Issue and Event Risk Categorisation Classification Matrix 126 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk report Risk report Board Governance Committees CYBG PLC BOARD Remuneration Clydesdale Committee Bank PLC Board Audit Risk Governance IRB and Committee Committee and Credit IFRS 9 Nomination Committee Committee Executive Governance Committees Chief Executive Officer Executive Risk Committee Executive Leadership Team Executive Governance Sub-Committees Credit Risk Model Customer Efficiency and Asset and Committee Governance Committee Investment Liability Committee Committee Committee Technical Governance Sub-Committees Reward Risk Disclosure Adjustment Committee Committee Board Governance Committees Executive Governance Committees Delegating authority, reporting and escalation Reporting and escalation On occasion, the Board may establish special purpose Committees as required.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 The following Executive level Committees have been established under the authority of the CEO: Committees Risk focus Executive Leadership Team The Executive Leadership Team supports the CEO to lead the Group to be a strong, customer-focused bank for its communities, by focusing on three business priorities: sustainable growth: efficiency: and capital optimisation.
Executive Risk Committee The Executive Risk Committee supports the CEO in respect of risk and control accountabilities and serves to provide leadership focus on key risk issues, including: endorsing the RAS for approval by the Board: overseeing and challenging the enterprise wide risk performance and control environment of the Group and business units, including the effective use of policy, frameworks and tools: monitoring the status of regulatory relationships, the reputation of the Group in relation to its regulators and the changing state of the regulatory landscape, including the impacts for and readiness of the Group: monitoring the strength of risk capability and capacity, including risk training and education plans to ensure an effective risk and control framework: and reviewing and endorsing risk policies, frameworks and tools for use across the Group.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring the Group complies with its continuous disclosure obligations for exchanges on which it has equity and debt securities listed.
The Executive Risk Committee is supported by the following committees: Credit Risk Committee The Credit Risk Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Credit RMF and associated policies remain effective.
The committee has oversight of the quality, composition and concentrations of the credit risk portfolio and recommends strategies to adjust the portfolio to react to changes in market conditions.
Model Governance Committee The Model Governance Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its governance responsibilities for material models and rating systems.
The Committee oversees the integration and ongoing use of models across the Group, specifically considering the fitness for purpose, usability and scalability of models.
Reward Risk Adjustment Committee The Reward Risk Adjustment Committee is responsible for considering and providing feedback to the Boards Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee in relation to risk events which may affect awards of variable pay and therefore ensuring that the Group complies with its regulatory requirements in respect of establishing and maintaining a robust risk adjustment process.
The Executive Leadership Team is supported by the following committees: Customer Committee The Customer Committee is responsible for overseeing the service and commercial performance of the Group to ensure that customer needs are being met in line with the Groups strong customer-focused culture and sustainable growth ambitions.
It considers the optimal mix of customer-focused products and is responsible for ensuring that the Group operates within a robust conduct and pricing framework.
Efficiency and Investment Committee The Efficiency and Investment Committee is responsible for overseeing the management of sustainable costs across the Group while supporting its growth ambitions, aligned to risk appetite, Asset and Liability Committee ALCO ALCO is responsible for monitoring the performance of the Group against the Board approved capital and funding plans.
The committee focuses on the Groups non-traded market risks including capital, funding, liquidity and interest rate risk to ensure that the Groups activity complies with regulatory and corporate governance requirements and also delivers Group policy objectives.
The impact of pension risk on capital is also assessed by ALCO.
128 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk report Risk report Three Lines of Defence Effective operation of a Three Lines of 3rd Line of Defence model is integral to the Groups approach to risk management and is based Defence on the overriding principle that risk capability must be embedded within the Internal Audit first line of defence teams to be effective.
Internal Audit provide independent This principle embodies the following assurance over the effectiveness of risk concepts: management across the 1st Line of Defence and 2nd Line of Defence.
risk management responsibilities are clearly understood by all colleagues 2nd Line of Defence when carrying out their day-to-day activities: Risk Management Risk Management define the Risk Management commercial decisions are made on the Strategy, Risk Appetite Framework and Policy basis of proactive consideration of risk Management Framework and provide independent and the impact on customers: oversight and challenge of 1st Line of Defence management must use the RMF to management of risk.
support decision making involving risk and reward trade-offs: 1st Line of Defence risk management activities are focused Business and Enterprise Assurance on enhancing sustainable business Business Line Management own and manage risks as part of performance: and day-to-day activity, including monitoring and assessing the regular assessments are undertaken to effectiveness of controls.
Additional assurance is provided on the confirm the effectiveness of the risk and effectiveness of controls by Enterprise Assurance, Policy Standard control frameworks in relation to both Owners and specific Business Unit Assurance teams.
the current and emerging risk profile.
Control is exercised through a clearly defined delegation of authority, with communication and escalation channels throughout the Group.
Risk management and internal controls Assessment of principal risks incorporating all material controls, including The Group undertakes stress testing The Board is responsible for determining financial, operational and compliance following the Basel Committee principles the nature and extent of the risks it is controls.
and utilising, where appropriate, scenarios willing to take in order to achieve its provided by the BoE.
Stress testing The Board and senior management are Stress testing is an important and In line with the UK Corporate Governance actively involved in the consideration of recognised risk management tool, used to Code the Code requirements, the stress testing.
This involvement works assess the vulnerability of financial Directors have performed a robust through all aspects of stress testing from institutions through the modelling of assessment of the risks facing the Group, the consideration of scenarios or events to adverse scenarios.
The Group uses stress including those that would threaten its be tested to the outcomes and mitigating testing to support the identification of risks business model and future performance, actions.
The involvement of the Board and and potential vulnerabilities under adverse solvency or liquidity.
senior management is considered to be economic scenarios or specific events.
Risk essential for the effective operation of The principal risks the Group actively appetite, risk mitigation and contingency stress testing and the manner in which the monitors and manages are described on planning are informed by stress testing results can then inform strategic planning page 17 of the Strategic report.
Reverse stress testing is In addition to supporting risk appetite, also undertaken to assess the types of risks Risk management and internal controls stress testing is used within strategic that would pose fundamental threats to The Board actively monitors the Groups planning, capital funding and liquidity plans the viability of the Groups business model.
risk management and internal control and for more detailed deep-dive analysis systems.
A review of the effectiveness of within specific portfolios.
those systems has been performed
