Risk reporting and escalation protocols 16 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Risk overview Effective management of risk is a key capability for a successful financial services provider and is fundamental to the Groups strategy The Group has continued to advance and A strong risk culture is founded on a risk Top and emerging risks strengthen its risk management capabilities, management accountability model and The Group monitors the environment in evolving in line with industry developments formal delegation framework where which it operates to identify both top and and best practice.
personal accountability empowers emerging risks that may have an impact on colleagues to take ownership.
It is a its operations and strategy.
The Group The Groups approach to risk consideration in all people management currently considers those to be see page Risk exists in every aspect of the Groups practices, supported by a formal whistle- 124 for details : business, is an integral part of the operating blowing framework that allows colleagues, geopolitical and macroeconomic environment, and is a core consideration in confidence and anonymously, to raise environment, including the impact of inherent within the Strategic Plan.
concerns about matters of conduct, the UKs vote to leave the EU Brexit : including inappropriate behaviour.
The Groups approach to risk management competition: is based on the principle that risk Risk management framework RMF consumer credit: management capability must be embedded The Group identifies and manages risk across all areas of the Group to be effective.
cybersecurity, IT and financial crime: using the RMF see diagram below, which is the totality of systems, structures, regulatory change: Risk strategy policies, processes and people that identify, The Group has a clearly defined strategy in risks arising from the acquisition of measure, evaluate, control, mitigate, place to monitor, manage and mitigate risk.
Virgin Money: monitor and report all material sources of The risk strategy includes: ensuring all internal and external risk.
Key aspects continued risk of customer detriment: principal and emerging risks are identified include: service interruption: and assessed: that risk appetite is clearly the risk appetite statement RAS that articulated and influences the Groups use of third party suppliers.
defines the level and types of risk the strategic plan: the maintenance of a clearly Group is willing to assume, within the The Group continues to monitor and defined risk culture which emphasises risk boundaries of its risk capacity, to achieve mitigate these risks through the RMF.
management while maintaining its strategic objectives: independent oversight: the need for Risk capability ongoing analysis of the environment in the policy framework which provides As discussed earlier in the report, in which the Group operates to proactively structure and governance for the October 2018 the Group obtained address potential risk issues as they arise: effective management of risks: and approval for the use of IRB models for its and a requirement to ensure that the Group adopts a Three Lines of mortgage and SME corporate portfolios.
appropriate risk processes, systems and Defence risk model comprised of: This represents a significant milestone in controls exist to support all colleagues in operational Business Units, the Risk the further development of the Groups their decision making.
Management function and Internal risk capability.
Risk culture The Group promotes a risk culture that supports the safety and soundness of the 3.
Monitor risks manage events Group as well as the consistent and fair Risk governance treatment of customers, both of which are fundamental to the success of the Groups Roles and responsibilities: Three Lines of Defence business model and strategy.
The risk culture shapes behaviours and decision Strategic planning including risk appetite setting making at all levels of the Group.
The interests of customers, colleagues, Risk appetite framework shareholders and the communities within which the Group operates are all aligned to Policy framework deliver the Groups strategic aim of sustainable customer growth.
Frameworks, risk systems, policies and standards to manage sources of risk: Control effectiveness statement 2.
Report Risk management core components Risk management cycle Risk infrastructure Risk culture Risk Issue and event Risk categorisation classification matrix Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 The principal risk categories listed below reflect the Groups inherent risks, and are expanded upon within the Risk Report on page 121.
Principal Risk category How this risk is managed Credit risk is the risk of loss of principal or interest Significant credit risk strategies, credit risk appetite and tolerances for stemming from a borrowers failure to meet contracted credit risk are approved and reviewed by the Board and Boards Risk obligations to the Group in accordance with the terms Committee.
Credit risk is evident at both a portfolio and The credit portfolio is closely monitored with actions initiated where transactional level.
Balance sheet and prudential regulation risk covers a Funding and Liquidity is managed in accordance with standards that are number of categories of risk, which affect the manner in approved by the Board, including the annual ILAAP, Funding and which the Group can support its customers in a safe and Contingency Funding Plans.
These standards maintain appropriate sound manner.
The risks include the need to withstand times controls on the flow of new lending, deposits and refinancing of existing of stress for the loss of funding liquidity, the impact of transactions and also consider the outcomes of stress testing.
restricted access to future sources of deposits funding, the The Group completes a formal assessment of capital through an impact of providing a defined benefit DB scheme to ICAAP which includes the impact of severe, yet plausible, stress events colleagues pension and the need to withstand severe to ensure that appropriate levels and types of capital underpin the unexpected losses capital.
strength of the balance sheet in both normal and stressed conditions.
The Group has implemented a range of pension reforms to reduce its exposure to pension risk including the closure of the DB scheme to future accrual for the majority of members from August 2017.
Regulatory and compliance risk is the risk of failing to Continued and significant Board and senior management focus is identify, understand, monitor and comply with relevant laws, directed towards maintaining regulatory compliance.
The Board or regulations, licence conditions, supervisory requirements, Executive Risk Committee approves all material changes to regulatory self-regulatory industry codes of conduct and voluntary policy and protocols.
In doing so, the Group risks damaging its relationship with its regulators.
It is also the failure of not keeping regulators informed of relevant issues and not responding effectively to information requests and regulatory reviews.
Conduct risk is the risk of undertaking business in a way The Group has an overarching Conduct Framework in place with which is contrary to the interests of our customers, resulting supporting target outcomes and operating principles, and processes to in the delivery of inappropriate customer outcomes, put things right for customers where they have been impacted by customer detriment, regulatory censure, redress costs and historic issues.
Governance, oversight and reporting are in place to or reputational damage.
ensure those objectives are met.
Operational risk including resilience and information The Group has an established Operational Risk Framework to enable security is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or identification, management and mitigation of operational risks.
Risk failed internal processes and systems or from external categories are used to facilitate the consistent identification, events.
It includes legal risk, and operational risks associated assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting of risks and events.
with the execution of strategy.
The Group also has an operational resilience framework that is being enhanced to reflect the changing digital environment and work is underway to ensure compliance with the new Operational Continuity in Resolution regulations that come into effect from January 2019.
Financial crime risk is the risk that the Groups products The Group has an established Financial Crime Framework supporting and services will be used to facilitate financial crime against ongoing management, monitoring and mitigation of financial crime the Group, its customers or third parties.
The Group operates zero tolerance for financial crime risk.
Strategic, business and financial performance risk is the The Board approves and oversees the execution of the Strategic Plan risk of significant loss, loss of earnings and or damage arising and associated strategic risk following the recommendations of the from business decisions that impact the long-term interests CEO and Executive Leadership Team.
The Groups RAS sets out the of stakeholders or from an inability to adapt to external risks it is able and willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
People risk is the risk of not having sufficiently skilled and Roles, responsibilities and performance expectations are defined in motivated colleagues who are clear on their responsibilities role profiles and expanded through objective setting and ongoing and accountabilities and who behave in an ethical way.
The quality and continuity of the Groups leadership is reviewed and assessed through succession planning and talent management activity.
18 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Case study Supporting communities where we live and work A decade of difference This year, CYBG celebrated ten years of supporting Hospice UK.
Over the last decade we have raised over 6m and dedicated more than 40,000 hours in colleague time to the charity.
Much of this support has been direct with colleagues using their two days of volunteering leave per year to help out with everything from garden makeovers to helping with Hospice marketing, Christmas fairs, to marshalling at events.
Ali OReilly, Head of Corporate Partnerships said: We are truly grateful to everyone at Clydesdale and Yorkshire Banks for every bake sale organised, every marathon run, every mountain climbed and every collection tin filled.
Every pound raised makes a difference and helps to ensure that hospices across the country continue to provide vital end-of-life care to those in need.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Supporting communities where we live and work Spirit of the Community Awards Sleep in the Park Since its inception in 2013, the YCB In December 2017, 300 CYBG staff took Foundation has made grants of over part in Sleep in the Park, an event run by 1m to 173 local charities through the Glasgow based charity, Social Bite to raise Spirit of the Community Awards.
funds for and awareness of homelessness.
In 2018, the Foundation introduced an Together we raised 500,000 a major additional 5,000 of funding for the contribution towards the building of winner that demonstrated exceptional a village creating temporary housing innovation in their approach.
This year for 20 rough sleepers.
The village will it was awarded to Emerge 3Rs, one of the provide a home for 12-18 months to successful applicants in the employment help transition residents into permanent category.
accommodation and provide pathways to mainstream employers, supporting their Emerge 3Rs aims to promote journey back into society.
After 12-18 self-confidence and achievement to months another 20 residents will be create routes into further training and welcomed into the village.
Gerry Magee, employment: alongside a social enterprise Head of Marketing for CYBG presents a matching community inclusion with waste cheque for 500,000 to Josh Littlejohn, prevention with the wider purpose of Founder of Social Bite.
improving local, social, economic and environmental conditions.
