S S E S S A Y M F I I T T I N G How the Business Manages Risk Effective risk management and control is key to the delivery of our business strategy and objectives.
Our risk management and control processes are designed to identify, assess, mitigate and monitor significant risks, and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that the Group will be successful in delivering its objectives.
Board Oversight of the Groups risk management and internal controls Management Structure Policies and Procedures Senior Executive Team Audit Committee Owners of the risk Review the effectiveness Business Planning management process of the risk management and responsible and internal audit for embedding risk framework Operational Level Controls management into Product Portfolio Reviews Lifecycle Management business units Pricing Policies Financial Controls Quality Assurance Pharmacovigilance Dechra Values Internal Audit Independent assurance on the design and operation of the internal control framework Business Units Identification, mitigation and monitoring of risks Risk Management Process Our strategy informs the setting of objectives across the business risk management in strategy, planning, budgeting, performance and is widely communicated.
Strategic risks and opportunities are management, and operational processes within their respective identified as an integral part of the strategy setting process.
Operating Segments and business units.
The Board oversees the risk management and internal control The Board and the SET together set the tone and decide the level of framework and the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk and control to be taken in achieving the Groups objectives.
risk management process and the internal control framework.
SET members present their risks, controls and mitigation plans to the Our Senior Executive Team SET owns the risk management Board for review on a rolling programme throughout the year.
process and is responsible for managing specific Group risks.
Internal Audit co-ordinate the risk reporting process and provide The SET members are also responsible for embedding sound independent assurance on the internal control framework.
54 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com E A D T I E R O T I N O M The key controls in place to manage our principal risks are described in Internal Control Framework further detail on pages 56 to 59.
Our internal control framework is designed to ensure: Internal Audit provides independent and objective assurance and proper financial records are maintained: advice on the design and operation of the Groups internal control the Groups assets are safeguarded: framework.
The internal audit plan seeks to provide balanced coverage compliance with laws and regulations: and of the Groups material financial, operational and compliance control effective and efficient operation of business processes.
The Dechra Values are the foundation of the control framework and it Improvements in 2018 is the Boards aim that these values should drive the behaviours and We have continued to strengthen and improve a number of key control actions of all employees.
The key elements of the control framework processes and the following changes have been implemented: are described below: our Group Code of Conduct and Third Party Code of Conduct have Management Structure been developed to improve our ability to comply with existing and Our management structure has clearly defined reporting lines, emerging legislation: accountabilities and authority levels.
a new Data Protection Policy and supporting procedures have The Group is organised into business units.
Each business unit is led been developed to support compliance with the EU General Data by a SET member and has its own management team.
Protection Regulation GDPR : we have made further enhancements to our manufacturing Quality Policies and Procedures Management Systems to continue to meet relevant regulatory Our key financial, legal and compliance policies that apply across the standards: and Group are: our Tax and Treasury polices and procedures have been updated Code of Business Conduct and How to Raise a Concern: to comply with new tax regulations and to reflect a number of Delegation of Authorities: improvements in our Treasury processes, respectively.
Dechra Finance Manual, including Tax and Treasury policies: Plans for 2019 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption: We will continue to refine and strengthen our internal control framework where required in response to changes in our risk profile and improvement Data Protection: opportunities identified by business management, quality assurance and Sanctions: and internal audit.
Strategy and Business Planning We have a five year strategic plan which is developed by the SET and endorsed by the Board annually.
Business objectives and performance measures are defined annually, together with budgets and forecasts.
Monthly business performance reviews are conducted at both Group and business unit levels.
Operational Controls Our key operational control processes are as follows: Product Pipeline Reviews: We review our pipeline regularly to identify new product ideas and assess fit with our product portfolio, assess whether products in development are progressing according to schedule: and assess the expected commercial return on new products.
Lifecycle Management: We manage and monitor lifecycle management activities for our key products to meet evolving customer needs.
Pricing Policies: We manage and monitor our national and European pricing policies to deliver equitable pricing for each customer group.
Quality Assurance: All our manufacturing sites have an established Quality Management System.
These systems are designed to ensure that our products are manufactured to a high standard and in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements.
Pharmacovigilance: Our regulatory team operates a robust system with a view to ensuring that any adverse reactions related to the use of our products are reported and dealt with promptly.
Financial Controls: Our controls are designed to prevent and detect financial misstatement or fraud and operate at three levels: Entity Level Controls performed by senior managers at Group and business unit level: Month end and year end procedures performed as part of our regular financial reporting and management processes: and Transactional Level Controls operated on a day-to-day basis.
