Understanding Our Key Risks Dechra is one of only a handful of listed veterinary pharmaceuticals The Group has implemented a hard Brexit mitigation plan which companies in the FTSE.
We therefore believe it is important to summarise will provide an EU based laboratory testing facility and staff for batch the key distinctions between the animal and human pharmaceutical testing if this is required and the transfer of product registrations to an industries in order to provide a better understanding of our risk profile.
EU domiciled legal entity within the Group.
This will entail an upfront investment of 0.2 million in capital and 1.0 million in one-off expenses.
The business of developing and marketing animal pharmaceuticals shares If EU batch testing and increased customs duties is required this will a number of characteristics with human pharmaceutical businesses.
These result in additional operating costs of approximately 0.8 million.
similarities include the need to conduct clinical trials to prove product safety and efficacy, obtain regulatory approval for new products, complex and Our current view on the potential changes that may result from Brexit is: highly regulated product manufacturing, and market products based on in terms of manufacturing and product registration, Dechra is approved clinical claims.
However, there are also significant differences accustomed to trading with multiple countries and different rules and between animal and human pharmaceutical businesses, including: legislation: Product development is generally faster, cheaper, more despite the possible additional administrative burden, our distribution predictable and sustainable: Development of animal medicines model can adapt to changes in tariffs and duties: typically requires fewer clinical studies with fewer subjects and is our business is naturally hedged and diversified, which helps in a conducted directly in the target species.
Decisions on product safety, period of economic uncertainty and exchange rate volatility: and efficacy and likelihood of success can therefore be made more quickly.
we will monitor the impact on workforce and global mobility to Diversified product portfolios: Animal pharmaceuticals businesses maintain an effective system for resource planning.
are generally less reliant on a small number of blockbuster products.
The Board reviews the potential impact of Brexit as an integral part of Animal health products are sold across different regions which the review of the Principal Risks, rather than as a stand alone risk.
The may have distinct product requirements.
As a result, animal health Board will continue to assess the potential impacts of Brexit as the products often have a smaller market size and the performance process evolves.
of any single product typically has less impact on overall business performance.
Iran Stronger customer relationships and brand loyalty: Companion We continue to monitor the potential impact of US sanctions on our Animal Products are directly prescribed and often dispensed and sold existing business with Iran, where we currently sell 1.3 million of by veterinarians which contributes to building brand loyalty, which products that are on the UN exempt sanctions list.
continues after the loss of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity.
Principal Risks Lower pricing pressure: Livestock producers and pet owners The SET has identified and agreed key risks with the Board.
Of these, a generally pay for animal healthcare themselves.
Pricing decisions are number are deemed to be generic risks facing every business including not influenced by government payors that are involved in product failure to comply with financial reporting regulation, foreign exchange, and pricing decisions for human medicines.
IT systems failure and non-compliance with legislation.
The risk profile Less price erosion by generic competition: Generic competition below therefore details the nine principal risks that are specific to our in animal healthcare, whilst playing an important role, has a lower business and provides information on: impact on prices compared to human pharmaceuticals because their prioritisation: of the smaller average market size of each product opportunity, stronger customer relationships and brand loyalty.
how they link to Group strategy: their potential impact on the business: and Emerging Risks Given current geopolitical uncertainty we have identified three emerging what controls are in place to mitigate them.
risks as detailed below: Taxation The Groups effective tax rate ETR is subject to taxation policy in the territories in which it operates.
The Group has benefited in the year from the reduction in corporate tax rate in the USA for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
We continue to monitor developments in the USA tax reform which may cause adverse movements in the Groups ETR.
3 The EU is currently challenging the legality of the UK Control Foreign Company CFC tax legislation from which the Group benefits.
We continue to monitor developments.
5 6 4 2 1 The Group currently benefits from patent and innovation box tax incentives.
The Groups ETR will increase as qualifying patents expire.
7 8 Brexit 9 The decision by the UK to leave the European Union EU has created volatility in markets and uncertainty about how future trading relationships, regulatory processes and supply chains will operate.
Our priority is to maintain continuity of supply of our products to our customers in the UK and the EU.
We have established a cross-functional team to assess and monitor the situation and determine which actions need to be taken.
Our primary focus is on addressing Brexit risk in our supply chain.
This Low Likelihood High includes transferring UK registered Marketing Authorisations for products that are sold in the EU to an EU entity and duplication of product release testing for products that are transferred between the UK and the EU.
Risk decreasing Risk increasing Risk stable 56 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Low Impact High Link to Strategic Growth Driver and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Control and Mitigating Actions Trends The emergence of corporate We manage and monitor our national and European 1 Market Risk: customers and buying groups pricing policies to deliver equitable pricing for each a b c The emergence of veterinary buying groups Continuing represents an opportunity to customer group.
customer increase sales volumes and consolidation Our relationships with larger customers are managed revenue but may result in reduced We sell and promote primarily to veterinary in USA and by key account managers.
practices and distribute our products major EU through wholesaler and distributor networks Our marketing strategy is designed to support markets in most markets.
veterinarians in retaining customers by promoting the benefits of our product portfolio in our major In a number of mature markets, veterinarians therapeutic areas.
are establishing buying groups to consolidate their purchasing, and corporate customers are also emerging.
Reduction in sales of our Regular contact is maintained with relevant veterinary 2 Regulatory Risk: antimicrobial product range.
authorities to enable us to have a comprehensive a b c Continuing pressure on reducing antibiotic understanding of regulatory changes.
Our reputation could be adversely impacted if we do not respond We strive to develop new products and minimise The issue of the potential transfer of appropriately to government antimicrobial resistance concerns.
antibacterial resistance from food producing recommendations.
animals to humans is subject to regulatory discussions.
In some countries this has led to government recommendations on reducing the use of antibiotics in food producing animals.
Revenues and margins may We focus on lifecycle management strategies for our 3 Competitor Risk: be adversely affected should key products to ensure they fulfil evolving customer Competitor products launched against one Competitor competitors launch a novel or requirements.
of our leading brands e. g. generics or a product generic product that competes superior product profile.
Product patents are monitored and defensive launches with one of our unique products against some strategies are developed towards the end of the upon the expiry or early loss of We depend on data exclusivity periods or of our key patent life or the data exclusivity period.
patents to have exclusive marketing rights products for some of our products.
We monitor market activity prior to competitor Costs may increase due to a b c products being launched, and develop a marketing defensive marketing activity.
Although we maintain a broad portfolio of response strategy to mitigate competitor impact.
products, our unique products like Vetoryl and Felimazole have built a market which may be attractive to competitors.
A succession of clinical trial failures Potential new development candidates are assessed 4 Product Development and could adversely affect our ability to from a commercial, financial and scientific perspective Launch Risk: deliver shareholder expectations by a multi-functional team to allow senior management Failure to deliver major products either and could also damage our to make decisions on which ones to progress.
due to pipeline delays or newly launched reputation and relationship with products not meeting revenue expectations.
The pipeline is discussed regularly by senior veterinarians.
management, including the Chief Executive Officer The development of pharmaceutical Our market position in key and Chief Financial Officer.
Regular updates are also products is a complex, risky and lengthy therapeutic areas could be provided to the Board.
process involving significant financial, R&D affected, resulting in reduced and other resources.
Each development project is managed by co-project revenues and profits.
leaders who chair project team meetings.
Products that initially appear promising may Where we are unable to recoup be delayed or fail to meet expected clinical Before costly pivotal studies are initiated, smaller proof of the costs incurred in developing or commercial expectations or face delays concept pilot studies are conducted to assess the effects and launching a product this in regulatory approval.
of the drug on target species and for the target indication.
would result in impairment of intangible assets.
In respect of all new product launches a detailed It can also be difficult to predict whether marketing plan is established and progress against that newly launched products will meet plan is regularly monitored.
The Group has a detailed market knowledge and retains close contact with customers through its management and sales teams which are trained to a high standard.
Stock Code: DPH 57 Understanding Our Key Risks continued Link to Strategic Growth Driver and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Control and Mitigating Actions Trends Failure to recruit or develop good The Group HR Director reviews the organisational 5 People Risk: quality people could result in: structure with the SET and the Board twice a year to Failure to resource the business to achieve Increasingly aim to ensure that the organisation is fit for purpose our strategic ambitions, particularly on capability gaps in new competitive and to assess the resourcing implications of planned geographical expansion and acquisition.
markets: labour market changes or strategic imperatives.
with particular challenges in integrating new As Dechra expands into new markets challenges A development programme is in place to identify acquisitions: or and acquires new businesses or science in recruiting opportunities to recruit new talent and develop we recognise that we may need new quality and overstretched resources.
technical people with different skills, experience and This could delay implementation of capabilities cultural knowledge to execute our strategy our strategy and we may not meet successfully in those markets and business shareholders expectations.
In the UK, the uncertainty created by Brexit could impact the hiring and retention of staff in some areas.
Delays in regulatory The Group strives to exceed regulatory requirements 6 Regulatory Risk: reviews and approvals could and ensure that its employees have detailed Failure to meet regulatory requirements.
Increasing impact the timing of a product experience and knowledge of the regulations.
regulatory launch and have a material effect We conduct our business in a highly Manufacturing and Regulatory have established standards on sales and margins.
regulated environment, which is designed and additional quality systems and standard operating procedures to ensure the safety, efficacy, quality, complexity Any changes made to the in place.
and ethical promotion of pharmaceutical due to Brexit manufacturing, distribution, products.
Regular contact is maintained with all relevant marketing and safety surveillance a b c regulatory bodies in order to build and strengthen processes of our products may Failure to adhere to regulatory standards relationships and facilitate good communication lines.
require additional regulatory or to implement changes in those approvals, resulting in additional standards could affect our ability to register, The regulatory and legal teams keep updated in costs and or delays.
manufacture or promote our products.
respect of changes with a view to ensuring that the business is equipped to deal with, and adhere to, Brexit transition may result Brexit presents uncertainty regarding such changes.
in additional regulatory and the regulatory standards and transitional quality control requirements and arrangements between the UK and the EU.
Where changes are identified which could affect associated costs.
our ability to market and sell any of our products, a response team is created in order to mitigate the risk.
Non-compliance with regulatory requirements may result in delays Work is in progress to transfer UK registered to production or lost sales.
Marketing Authorisations for products sold in the EU to an EU entity and to establish duplicate product release testing for products transferred between the UK and the EU.
External consultants are used to audit our manufacturing quality systems.
Failure to identify or secure We have defined criteria for screening acquisition 7 Acquisition Risk: suitable targets could slow the targets and we conduct commercial, clinical, financial Identification of acquisition candidates and pace at which we can expand into and legal due diligence.
new markets or grow our portfolio.
The Board reviews acquisition plans and progress Identification of suitable candidates and Acquisitions could deliver lower regularly and approves all potential transactions.
securing a successful approach involves a profits than expected or result in high degree of uncertainty.
The SET manages post acquisition integration and intangible assets impairment.
monitors the delivery of benefits and returns.
Acquired products or businesses may fail to deliver expected returns due to overvaluation or integration challenges.
58 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Link to Strategic Growth Driver and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Control and Mitigating Actions Trends Raw material supply failures may We monitor the performance of our key suppliers 8 Reliance on Third Parties Risk: cause: and act promptly to source from alternative suppliers A supply failure on a key product may affect where potential issues are identified.
our ability to develop, make, or sell our Increased product costs due products.
to difficulties in obtaining The top ten Group products are regularly reviewed scarce materials on in order to identify the key suppliers of materials or a b c We rely on third parties for the supply commercially acceptable finished products.
of all raw materials for products that we terms: manufacture in-house.
We also purchase We maintain buffer stocks and or dual sourcing product shortages due to many of our finished products from third arrangements of key products.
manufacturing delays: or party manufacturers.
All contracts with suppliers are reviewed from both a delays in clinical trials due to commercial and legal perspective to try to ensure that shortage of trial products.
assignment of the contract is allowed should there Shortages in manufactured be a change of control of either of the contracting products and third party supply parties.
failures on finished products may We have recruited a dedicated team to manage our result in lost sales.
Loss of key skills and experience The Nomination Committee oversees succession 9 People Risk: could erode our competitive planning for the Board and the SET.
Failure to retain high calibre, talented Board advantage and could have an senior managers and other key roles in the Succession plans are in place for the SET together and SET adverse impact on results.
succession with development plans for key senior managers.
Key planning a b c Inability to attract and retain key person insurance is in place where appropriate.
Our growth plans and future success are managed personnel may weaken succession dependent on retaining knowledgeable and successfully Remuneration packages are reviewed on an annual planning.
experienced senior managers and key staff.
basis in order to help ensure that the Group can continue to retain, incentivise and motivate its employees.
Key to Strategic Growth Drivers: Key to Strategic Enablers: Key to Risk Trend: Pipeline Delivery Manufacturing and Supply Chain Increased risk a b c Portfolio Focus Technology Decreased risk Geographical Expansion People No change Acquisition Stock Code: DPH 59
