66 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate governance report Diversity through the activities of the Audit Committee described below, Diageo strongly supports diversity within its Board of Directors, a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including gender, age and professional diversity.
The Board is including those that would threaten its business model, future comprised of individuals from a diverse range of skills, industries, performance, solvency or liquidity has been carried out.
These risks backgrounds and nationalities, which enables a broad evaluation and mitigations are set out above in the section of this Annual Report of all matters considered by the Board and contributes to a culture dealing with principal risks.
of collaborative and constructive discussion.
In particular, women The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the companys currently make up 50% of the companys Board and 40% of its systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing Executive Committee.
Further information is given in the sections their effectiveness.
The Board confirms that, through the activities of this Annual Report on sustainability & responsibility, our people, of the Audit Committee described below, it has reviewed the and on our role in society in the Chairmans Statement.
effectiveness of the companys systems of internal control and risk management.
Remuneration Committee During the year, in line with the Code, the Board considered Role of the Remuneration Committee the nature and extent of the risks it was willing to take to achieve The role of the Remuneration Committee and details of how the its strategic goals and reviewed the existing internal statement of company applies the principles of the Code in respect of Directors risk appetite which was considered and recommended to the Board remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report.
by both the Audit & Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive may, by invitation, attend In accordance with the Code, the Board has also considered the Remuneration Committee meetings, except when their own companys longer term viability, based on a robust assessment of remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved in determining its principal risks.
This was done through the work of the Audit his or her own remuneration.
Committee which recommended the Viability Statement as set out above to the Board.
The company has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to the companys financial reporting process and Executive direction the groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
Further, a review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by andcontrol management to ensure that the financial position and results of the group are appropriately reflected.
Executive Committee Compliance and ethics programme The Executive Committee, appointed and chaired by the Chief Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and Executive, supports him in discharging his responsibility for in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing activities are subject.
We hold ourselves to the principles in our Code the company and the group.
of Business Conduct, which is embedded through a comprehensive It consists of the individuals responsible for the key operational training and education programme for all employees.
and functional components of the business: North America, Europe Our Code of Business Conduct and other Diageo global policies and Turkey, Africa, Latin America and Caribbean, Asia Pacific, are available at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus International Supply Centre and Corporate.
The Executive Committee focuses its time and agenda to align with the Performance Ambition and how to achieve Diageos In accordance with the requirements of SOX and related SEC rules, financial and non-financial performance objectives.
Performance Diageo has adopted a code of ethics covering its Chief Executive, metrics have been developed to measure progress.
There is also Chief Financial Officer, presidents and other identifiable persons focus on the companys reputation.
In support, monthly performance in the group, including those performing senior accounting and delivery calls, involving the senior leadership group, focus on controller functions.
No amendments to, or waivers in respect of, progress against the six performance drivers.
the code of ethics were made during the year.
To support the market visits made by the presidents in the The full text of the code of ethics is available at www.
com en-row ordinary course of their business, a small group led by the Chief ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
Executive makes regular market visits focused on the execution of strategy and designed to assist in continuing the development Both the Audit & Risk Committee and the Audit Committee regularly of strategy and in the delivery of performance against the review the strategy and operation of the compliance and ethics Performance Ambition.
Further information is given in the section of this Annual Report Committees appointed by the Chief Executive and intended to have an on sustainability and responsibility, governance and ethics.
ongoing remit, including the Audit & Risk Committee, Finance Committee and Filings Assurance Committee are shown with their remits at Relations with shareholders www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
The Boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is through Additional information the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Executive Internal control and risk management and Chief Financial Officer are supported by the investor relations An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating department, who are in regular contact with institutional and managing risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies shareholders and sell-side analysts.
A monthly investor relations with the requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full report, including coverage of the company by sell-side analysts, financial year and up to the date the financial statements were is circulated to the Board.
approved and accords with the guidance issued by the FRC in The Board also ensures that all Directors develop an September 2014, Guidance on Risk management, Internal Control and understanding of the views of major institutional shareholders related Financial and Business Reporting.
The Board confirms that, through an independent survey of shareholder opinion.
