RISK MANAGEMENT Managing our risks We have a comprehensive risk management framework in place to ensure we have a strong understanding of the risks we run in the course of our business: and appropriate controls are in place with the aim of ensuring we remain withinrisk appetite.
and implementation of the Enterprise Risk Management Managing risk in line with Strategyand Framework risk management framework, ourstrategy andfor providing proportionate oversight of, and challenge Management, with oversight and challenge from the Board, is to, the businesss handling of risks, events and management responsible for developing our strategy.
Group Audit is the Third Line of Defence, providing process aims to ensure we have developed clear objectives anindependent and objective view of the adequacy and and targets, and identified the actions needed to deliver them, effectiveness of the Groups risk management, governance including the management of risk.
The delivery of a strategic andinternal control framework.
plan will, by its very nature, result in risks and therefore The Groups governance structure is set out in more detail in understanding and managing those risks appropriately is thecorporate governance section.
akeyaspect of the strategic planning process.
The Groups riskstrategy is aligned with the Group strategy and supports Risk appetite business decision-making through the proactive identification, Our risk appetite statements define the risks we are prepared assessment and management of risks.
The Groups risk strategy toaccept to achieve our business objectives.
The processes is consistent with our overall long-term ambition of sustainable forsetting risk appetite, particularly the cascade, assessment, growth and at least a 15% RoTE per annum delivered while mitigation and reporting of risk exposures against risk appetite, remaining within our risk appetite.
are documented in the Groups policies and underlying minimum standards.
To monitor whether the business Our risk governance framework remainswithin risk appetite, we use key risk indicators, The Board sets and monitors adherence to the risk strategy, amongother information.
riskappetite and risk framework, and has established a risk We derive the key risk indicators from the risk appetite management model that separates responsibilities into statements which are used to drive and monitor risk-aware ThreeLines of Defence.
Our First Line of Defence is management who are These key risk indicators are qualitative and quantitative, and responsiblefor owning and managing risks to achieve our forward and backward-looking.
We review our risk appetite business objectives on a day-to-day basis.
The Second Line of statements and key risk indicators annually.
Defence is the Risk function which is responsible for the design Risk objective Risk appetite statement Overarching risk objective The Group recognises that its long-term sustainability is dependent on having sufficient economic capital to meet its liabilities as they fall due, thus protecting its reputation and theintegrity of its relationship with policyholders and other stakeholders.
As part of this, its appetite is for general insurance risk, focusing on personal lines retail andsmall and medium-sized enterprise insurance in the UK.
The Group has appetite for non-insurance risks, as appropriate, to enable and assist it to undertake its primary activity ofinsurance.
Maintain capital adequacy The Group seeks to hold capital resources in the range of 140% to 180% of the internal modelsolvency capital requirement.
The Group also seeks to maintain sufficient economic capital consistent with its strategic aim of maintaining a credit rating in the A range.
Stable and efficient access The Group aims to meet planned and unexpected cash outflow requirements, including tofunding and liquidity thoserequirements that arise following a 1-in-200 years insurance, market or credit risk event.
Maintain stakeholder The Group has no appetite for material risks resulting in reputational damage, regulatory or confidence legal censure, poor customer outcomes, fines or prosecutions, and other types of non-budgeted operational risk losses associated with Group conduct and activities.
The Group will maintain arobust and proportionate internal control environment.
44 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our Enterprise Risk Management Our risk culture Our risk culture underpins our business and decision-making, Strategy and Framework and helps us embed a robust approach to managing risk.
Our This section sets out, at a high level, our approach to setting risk culture is demonstrated in the understanding and businessrisk strategy and the risk management framework for managing wide use of the risk management systems and processes and risks.
It documents the high-level principles and practices through risk-aware decision-making.
The Board is committed to toachieve appropriate risk management standards and promoting a culture of high standards of corporate governance, demonstrates the inter-relationships between components business integrity, ethics and professionalism in all our activities.
of the risk management framework see diagram.
An annual assessment of risk behaviours and attitudes is The risk management framework enables us to manage the undertaken jointly by the Risk function and Group Audit business with the necessary understanding of our risks and andconsiders a range of factors influencing risk culture.
controls, while also having the appropriate levels of oversight Thisprocess is overseen by the Board Risk Committee to ensure risks are managed proactively.
The risk management onbehalfof the Board.
framework is aligned to the Three Lines of Defence model, and provides a comprehensive approach for managing our risks.
Our Policy Framework is a central part of the risk management framework, and includes policies and minimum standards which provide the context and risk appetite boundaries withinwhich the business conducts its activities.
Group strategy Risk appetite Policy framework Reporting & monitoring Principal risks Risk management Identify Risk profile Assess Manage Monitor Report WWW.
CO. UK 45 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Principal risks and uncertainties We carefully assess the principal risks facing us.
Principal risks are defined as having a residual risk impact of 40 million or more on a 1-in-200 years basis, taking into account customer, financial and reputational impacts.
Principal risks Management and mitigation examples The risk of loss due to fluctuations in the timings, We set our reserves using the latest internal and external data amount, frequency and severity of an insured and trends eventrelative to the expectations at the time Third-party experts review the majority of our reserves ofunderwriting.
Underwriting guidelines are set for all transacted business, Key drivers of the outlook for insurance risk across andpricing refined by analysing comprehensive data our business plan include reserve, underwriting, Catastrophe and motor excess of loss reinsurance limits our distribution, pricing and reinsurance risks.
exposure to events and large losses See pages 146 to 148 We invest in enhanced external data to analyse and mitigateexposures We estimate technical reserves using various actuarial and statistical techniques.
Managements best estimate of total reserves is set at not less than the actuarial best estimate The risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the We have an investment strategy approved by the Board leveland in the volatility of market prices of assets, We diversify asset classes including by country of risk, and liabilities and financial instruments.
byinvesting in US dollar assets to broaden the pool of available assets Key drivers of market risk are the sensitivity of the values of our assets and investments to changes in We set limits on exposure to individual asset classes and the credit spreads, and our exposure losses as a result amount of illiquid investments of changes in interest rate term structure or volatility.
We carry out an annual matching exercise on our assets and See pages 148 to 151 liabilities, which reduces the net impact of interest rate risk as shown in interest rate sensitivities To limit exposure to credit spread risk, we tightly control individual asset exposures as shown in spread risk sensitivities We use risk-reduction techniques, such as hedging foreign currency exposures with forward contracts, and hedging exposure to US interest rates with swap contracts The risk of loss resulting from default in cash Credit limits are set for each counterparty and we actively inflowsand or changes in market value of issuers monitor credit exposures of securities, counterparties and any debtors to We only purchase reinsurance from reinsurers with at least an which the Group is exposed.
For liabilities with a relatively long period of time to settlement, this rating will be at least A This includes the risks associated with inadequately diversified portfolios of assets and or obligations.
We have well-defined criteria to determine which customers are offered and granted credit See pages 151 to 155 46 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS Credit risk Market risk Insurance risk STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal risks Management and mitigation examples The risk of loss due to inadequate or failed We have appropriate operational processes and systems, internalprocesses or systems, human error including detection systems for fraudulent claims and orfromexternal events.
appropriate processes which seek to enable  The principal risks within this category are We are continuing to work to improve performance and information security, partnership contractual stability of our IT systems while focusing on developing future obligations, change, outsourcing and systems capability.
With significant change underway, we  risks.
arecontinuing to monitor risks associated with our IT systems See page 156 stability, and resilience, cyber security, and the internal controlenvironment Our risk management framework is designed to enable us tocapture risk information in a robust and consistent way We monitor how risks are managed in the performance ofoutsourced and off-shored activities The risks arising out of changes to laws, regulatory We maintain a constructive and open relationship with rules, policy or interpretation, or to supervisory ourregulators expectations or approach, that have an adverse We use specific risk management tools and resources to operational and financial impact as a result of helpmanage our exposure to regulatory risk reputational damage, regulatory or legal censure, We have a strong culture of delivering on our commitments fines or prosecutions, and any other type of toour customers non-budgeted operational risk losses, associated Our conduct risk management framework is designed with the Groups conduct and activities.
todeliver fair outcomes to customers and minimise our riskexposure We carry out planned risk-based monitoring of customer processes as well as more targeted thematic reviews whichconsider strategic or regulatory projects The risk of direct or indirect impact on the earnings, We agree, monitor and manage performance against the capital, or value of the business as a result of the Board-approved plan and targets strategies not being optimally chosen, implemented The Board leads an annual strategy and planning process or adapted to changing conditions.
which considers our performance, competitor positioning andstrategic opportunities We identify and manage emerging risks using established governance processes and forums WWW.
CO. UK 47 Strategic risk Regulatory and Operational risk conduct risk RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED investments and therefore capital and the solvency capital ratio Potential effects of Brexit and the appropriateness of paying dividends.
The UK is scheduled to exit from the EU on 29 March 2019.
Procurement and supply chain: In particular as part of the Atthe date of this report there is considerable uncertainty as to Groups ability to deal with claims made under insurance how and even whether there will be a Brexit, or at least as to policies, the Group needs to acquire a wide range of goods when it will take effect and on what terms.
Accordingly there is and services.
A significant amount and spread of goods, for corresponding uncertainty as to the effect of Brexit on the Group.
example such as car parts, are sourced from within the EU.
If Brexit takes place smoothly, for example involving a transition TheGroup has been in discussion with principal suppliers period during which work would take place at the government whohave taken some steps to increase stocks within the UK level to agree a future trading agreement between the UK and inthe event of a hard Brexit leading to disruption at borders.
the EU, and accordingly without significant disruption to the UK However, the Groups ability to deal with claims in its normal economy and to business generally, then any adverse impact on ordinary course of business manner could be adversely the Group if any would also not be expected to be significant, impacted and there could be delays and extra costs.
at least until the end of the transition period and the future trading The Group has a small amount of business in the Republic arrangements between the UK and the EU being clarified.
If, ofIreland, servicing a small Irish part of a UK partners wider however, the UK were to leave the EU in such a way as to business.
The Group is well advanced in establishing a formal involve or lead to significant disruption, as has been conjectured third-country branch in the Republic of Ireland in order to be in the event of a hard no deal Brexit at the end of March, able to continue with this business post a hard Brexit, and thenthe impact on the Group could correspondingly also expects the branch to be authorised for business by the Central bedisruptive and potentially material.
Bank of Ireland by the current deadline of 29 March 2019, Following the EU referendum result in 2016, which saw should that become necessary.
theUKvote to leave the EU, the Group established a Brexit The Group has also been focusing on Brexit from a potential Working Group comprising representatives from across the crisis management perspective, with the objective of maintaining Group.
It was identified that there was a risk that the UK could operational resilience in the event of a disruptive Brexit and with enter a prolonged period of reduced growth due to Brexit, a view to being able to react better to events as they unfold.
potentially reducing insurance sales and the value of our investment portfolio.
Whilst our operations are based mainly Emerging risks inthe UK, Brexit-related issues which could impact adversely onthe Group could include: changes to the value of sterling Our definition of emerging risks is new or developing risks which impact claims and non-claims supplier costs: inflation: which are often difficult to quantify: they are also usually impacts on credit spreads which in turn could impact on the highlyuncertain and external to the Group.
Emerging risks Groups investments and capital: recruitment and retention of areidentified by management and the latest information is people: impacts on the speed of delivery and cost of goods maintained within an Emerging Risk Register.
Each emerging and services required by the business including for fulfilling risk is owned by a business subject matter expert and members insurance claims made by customers, for example because of of the Second Line of Defence provide challenge and oversight delays at borders caused by increased border regulations and of activity taking place.
We report emerging risks to the Board by additional costs caused by increased tariffs and devaluation Risk Committee for review and challenge.
Our emerging risks of sterling: availability of reinsurers authorised to write business processes aim to: in the UK: data transfers: the removal of the European Health identify emerging risks on a timely basis: Insurance Card EHIC leading to greater reliance on travel manage emerging risks proactively: insurance: travel disruption: increased use of Green Cards internationally recognised certificates that act as proof of mitigate the impact of emerging risks which could affect the insurance, including in the EU : potential changes to direct and delivery of the strategic plan: and indirect tax: and the regulatory impact on our capital position.
reduce the uncertainty and volatility of our businesss results.
The Group has proactively considered a variety of possible We consider our main emerging risks to be: implications of a disruptive hard Brexit, including of a financial and operational nature: for example: Climate change Climate change poses a range of financial risks to the Group.
The impact on the Groups investment portfolio and in These can be divided into three categories: particularcredit spreads relating to its debt securities and therefore Group solvency: A sensitivity analysis relating to Physical risks include many weather-related risks arising itscredit spread is provided in note 3.3.
2 to the financial directly from climate change.
These include changes in statements on page 151.
The Group has also considered thefrequency and severity of events, floods, storms, freeze, Brexit in its Investment Committee, and further information is subsidence or wildfire.
The Groups use of catastrophe provided on the work of the Investment Committee on page reinsurance mitigates against many of the worst potential 87.
A disruptive Brexit could impact adversely on the Groups impacts and the Group regularly reassesses its use of 48 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS externalcatastrophe models to ensure they fully capture Viability statement climate-related risk.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Transitional risks arise from efforts to mitigate or adapt to Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects climate change.
These include the strategic and operational of the Group for a period longer than the minimum 12 months risks from the transition towards electric-powered vehicles.
required by the going concern statement.
Whilst insuring electric vehicles does not fundamentally The Strategic report, on pages 1 to 59, sets out the Groups change the business model, the business seeks to develop financial performance, business environment, outlook and the new processes, skills and technical knowledge required financial management strategies.
It covers how the Group to keep pace with these changes in technology.
measures its regulatory and economic capital needs, and Liability risks arise when parties, who have suffered losses deploys capital.
You can find discussion about the Groups from climate change, seek to recover from those they believe principal risks and risk management in this section.
Note 3 to may have been responsible.
There is some potential exposure the consolidated financial statements starts on page 146 and to liability risk through commercial liability insurance.
sets out financial disclosures relating to the Groups principal However, Pollution and Professional Indemnity covers, risks.
This covers insurance, market and credit risk, and the whichcarry the highest risk, are almost fully reinsured.
Groups approach to monitoring, managing and mitigating exposures to these risks.
There are also potential physical, transition and liability risksarising through the investment portfolio.
During 2018 a Every year, the Board considers the strategic plan and an significant new initiative was approved to strengthen further OwnRisk and Solvency Assessment ORSA for the Group.
theGroups investment strategy with regard to environmental, The plan makes certain assumptions in respect of the social and governance issues.
More information can be found competitive markets in which the Group operates, and the in the Investment Committees report on page 87. delivery and implementation of the new customer systems.
Appropriate aspects of the strategic plan are stress-tested Technological developments change tounderstand and help set capital and other requirements.
consumer needs for insurance When reviewing the strategic plan, the Board considered the New car technologies, such as crash-prevention aids, car Groups prospects over the period that the plan covered and sharing and driverless cars, could significantly affect the size the conclusions of the ORSA, based on the Groups anticipated and nature of the insurance market and the role of insurers.
The activities as set out in the strategic plan.
This review included Group continues to build strong collaborative relationships with reviews of solvency, liquidity, assessment of principal risks, key manufacturers, and has established an In-Car Technology andrisk management over a three-year period, with a further programme to help manage the response to developing two years of indicative planning.
The first year following cartechnology.
approval of the strategic plan has greater certainty, so it was Furthermore, the Groups strategic pillars of being a great used to set detailed budgets across the Group.
Outcomes for retailer, smart and efficient manufacturer and leading disrupter, the subsequent years in the plan are less certain.
However, the as well as our aim of multi-channel success, help position us plan provides a robust planning tool for strategic decisions.
The totake advantage of changes in technology and customer Board recognises that, in a strategic plan, uncertainty increases behaviours, through the development of new capabilities, over time and, therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed newpartnership capabilities, and by enabling us to have or accurately predicted.
theflexibility to adapt react to these changes.
Based on the results of these reviews, the Board has a Fairness and pricing practices reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group can The FCA is conducting a market study into Fair Pricing in continue in operation, and provide the appropriate degree of Financial Services and the Competition and Markets Authority protection to those who are, or may become, policyholders or has announced plans to take forward a package of reforms to claimants in the period to 31 December 2022. address the loyalty penalty for long-standing home insurance customers, but has concluded that it will not be conducting its own market study at this time.
The Group remains up-to-date with developments from the FCAand the Competition and Markets Authority work on pricing practices and will keep the review in focus throughout 2019 aswell as seeking to ensure that the Group continues tomaintain fair pricing principles.
CO. UK 49 RESPONSIBILITY ESG our approach We aim to drive sustainable outcomes for our stakeholders and in order to deliver this we have developed a five pillar strategy which resonates with our collaborative culture and values.
Our approach to environmental, social and governance matters is delivered through our five pillars and the table below shows where information can be found in this annual report and accounts.
Pillars Our customers Our society Our planet Making insurance Playing an active role Reducing, reusing much easier and in issues that affect and recycling to build better value our society a sustainable future Tailored brands p. 5 Autonomous vehicles p. 21 Recycling coffee cups p. 55 Initiatives Routes to market p. 9 & 19 Young drivers p. 54 & 85 Environmental Champions p. 55 Renewal pricing principles Road safety p. 53 & 85 Investment in green bonds p. 18 & 21 p. 54 & 87 Women in Finance p. 58 Customer focus p. 22, 52 & 81 Travel free weeks p. 55 Supporting charities p. 53, 54, Propositions p. 39, 41, 42 & 43 85 & 86 Disclosures Net promoter score p. 25 & 52 Paying tax p. 37 & 54 Emissions p. 20, 55, 85 & 120 Customer complaints p. 25 & 52 Recycling p. 55 Waste p. 55 Non-financial KPIs p. 25 Climate change p. 48, 49 & 55 Connect training p. 20 Prompt payment code p. 54 Upgrading our buildings p. 20 Policies Customer approach p. 61 Ethical investment p. 54 & 87 Diverting 100% of office waste p. 55 Data protection p. 81 Commitment to 100% electricity from renewable sources p. 55 Our stakeholders The Board believes that adopting a business model that is sustainable in the long term and based onhigh ESG standards is important for promoting the success of the Company.
In discussing and approving the Groups strategic and financial plan, the Board considers the potential impact on all stakeholders in the business, including employees, customers, suppliers, the communities with which weinteract and the environment, as well as the shareholders for whom we aim to continue generating returns on investment.
You can find more detail about the stakeholder matters discussed by the Board when considering the strategic plan on page 66.
Our culture as a business flows from the beliefs underpinning the five pillars of our approach to Responsibility, which are set out in this section.
50 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ESG Oversight Our people Our governance Investing in our Creating a long-term talented people, business that Board encouraging everyone servesall of our The Direct Line Group Board oversees all of to aim higher stakeholders the Groups ESG activity.
It has delegated particular aspects of this supervision to itsCommittees.
Diversity and inclusion p. 58 Culture and values p. 60 & 61 Employee Representative Board leadership and Body p. 56 & 61 diversity p. 66, 67 & 73 Employee ideas forum p. 57 Risk governance p. 44 & 45 The Remuneration Committee determines remuneration for senior management Mental health wellbeing p. 59 ESG p. 85 & 86 andreviews workforce remuneration.
Women in Finance Charter p. 58 Strategic planning p. 68 The Corporate Social Responsibility Values p. 60 Committee focuses on the Groups responsibility for the environment, the community and the wellbeing and Employee surveys p. 17 & 56 Remuneration p. 61 & 88 engagement of its people.
Gender pay gap p. 58 & 59 Board effectiveness p. 70 The Investment Committee considers the strategy for incorporating ESG factors into Living wage p. 58 Auditor fees p. 79 theGroups investment management.
Committee structures The Board Risk Committee oversees p. 68 & 69 allaspects of financial, regulatory and operational risk, including the long-term risk Diversity and inclusion UK Corporate Governance tothe Group of climate change.
p. 73 & 85 Code p. 66 The Audit Committee focuses on sustainability Annual Incentive Plan p. 58 Stakeholder interests p. 66 in the Groups financial disclosures.
Employee share ownership Whistleblowing p. 82 The Nomination Committee monitors p. 16 & 58 Modern Slavery Act p. 86 developments in governance and investor ESG Development and training Anti-bribery and corruption expectations, as well as being responsible for p. 20 & 59 policy p. 82 Board succession planning.
Parental leave and flexible Risk governance p. 82 More information about the activities of each of working p. 57 theCommittees can be found in the Committees Code of business conduct p. 61 reports on pages 76 to 87.
Non-financial information statement This diagram sets out where stakeholders can find information in our Strategic report that relates to non-financial matters, as required 1 under the new regulations on reporting non-financial information.
Our business model, pages 22 & 23 Principal risks and impact on business activity pages 44 to 49 Further information on our ESG pillars, strategy 1.
The Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Non-Financial Reporting and full disclosure can be found online at Regulations 2016, SI 2016 No 1245. www.
CO. UK 51 RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Long-term sustainability for our stakeholders Under the leadership of our Board, responsibility is at the heart of how we think about our business.
Our five pillar ESG strategy ensures that we target delivering long-term sustainability for our customers, our people and our shareholders and that we consider the impact we have on our society and our planet.
Our approach to responsibility is structured around five pillars: Our Our Our Our Our customers society planet people governance Making insurance much Playing an active role Reducing, reusing and Investing in our talented Creating a long-term easier and better value in issues that affect recycling to build a people, encouraging business that serves all oursociety sustainable future everyone to aim higher of our stakeholders See page 52 See pages 53 54 See page 55 See pages 56 59 See pages 60 121 Our customers Customers are at the heart of everything we do, and as such our work in pursuit of making insurance much easier and better value for our customers is highlighted throughout this report.
You can read about our brands, products and channels on thefollowing pages.
Our latest customer propositions can be found on pages 39 and pages 41 to 43 and our strategy in action on pages 20 and 21 outlines how we are delivering See Rescue and other outcomes for our customers.
See Motor on page 38 personal lines on page 42 Weve built a reputation for delivering for our customers by regularly developing new and different ways to make our products easier and better value for our customers.
Propositions such as our Churchill Vandalism Promise, Direct Lines Fair Claim Commitment or Fast Response are ways of making insurance easier and weve used training to help our people have far more empathetic and powerful conversations with ourcustomers.
See Home on page 40 See Commercial on page 43 We recognise that our customers are always raising their expectations and one of our values is to aim higher.
The relationship between NPS and customer retention shows One claim every single minute of theresa direct link between customer experience and our every single hour, every day of success as a business and thats why this year we launched aninitiative designed to help us identify, meet and exceed the year customer expectations when we make decisions and choicesabout howwe run our business.
52 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Sprintathon Our society 422 of our people took part in a Sprintathon this year, where theyran 100m sprints to cover the marathon distance of 26.2 Brake and PACTS miles.
Our aim was to complete a marathon in the shortest We continue to engage with important partners in the possible time and, more importantly, raise money for Stand Up roadsafety debate, including road safety charity Brake, the to Cancer.
Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety PACTS An astounding 60,000 was raised for Cancer Research UK, and the Department for Transport.
who carry out work that accelerates new cancer treatments We remain a committed partner to the road safety charity Brake, andtests for UK patients, and patients across the world, to campaigning throughout the year to make our streets safer.
Working with politicians, our partnership has raised the Our people pulled together to get involved in this great cause profileof local campaigns leading to meaningful change in and it was an engaging and rewarding group experience constituencies throughout the UK.
Highlights this year have where each individual effort combined to fight cancer.
This included the introduction of 20 mph zones near schools, wasa fun and collaborative way to really live our value of reducing the speed limit on major A roads and tackling Working Together.
The marathon was completed in under speeding on rural roads through greater law enforcement.
two hours and theres not many people in the world who We celebrated the successes at Brakes annual parliamentary cansay they achieved that!
reception with hundreds of Brake supporters, volunteers andparliamentarians.
Steve Maddock, our Chief Operating Officer, and Judith 422 60,000 Cummins MP, who was awarded Brake and Direct Line of our people raised for Cancer took part Research UK Groups Parliamentarian of the Year Award and who campaigned for tougher sentences for dangerous drivers.
CO. UK 53 RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Shotgun Financial responsibility As Britains leading personal motor insurer we want, for both Responsible investing our customers and society, to keep Britains roads safe.
This As the Groups investment strategy evolves, it is constantly isparticularly true for young drivers where inexperience often looking for ways to enhance its investment practices with leads to more accidents.
The facts are stark: To date, the Groups investment strategy has reflected the The part of the brain that helps assess risk is not fully following initiatives: developed until we reach our mid 20s Approximately 95% of externally managed assets are run 17 to 19 year olds are involved in 9% of all fatal and bymanagers who are currently signatories to the United serious crashes, despite representing just 1.5% of all drivers Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment One in four 18 to 24 year olds crash within two years of Almost 90% of the investments in the infrastructure debt passing their driving test portfolio are in schools, hospitals and other social infrastructure assets Thats why we developed our driving app called Shotgun with The commercial property portfolio invests only in assets with the aim of cutting the number of young driver deaths to zero in an energy efficiency level of D or higher or with apportioned the first 1,000 miles after passing their test, even if they insure funds to achieve this level, exceeding the government their car with someone else.
minimum requirement of an E rating Shotguns real-time feedback after every journey has already led to driver improvement on important safety metrics such as During 2018 a significant new initiative was approved to speeding, braking and smoothness.
strengthen further the Groups ESG credentials: There is clearly demand for Shotgun, which rewards drivers In the first half of 2019, the majority of investment grade forgood driving.
With over 27,000 downloads since launch, bondmandates will transition to be managed against weve analysed 3.6 million car journeys covering 32.8 million ESGweighted indexes miles, helping young drivers to be safer on our roads.
Investment guideline amendments now instruct the portfolio managers to prefer investment in green bonds where they One Day offer a similar risk-reward profile to other issues We give every colleague the opportunity to do a full day The Investment Committees section of the Annual Report can eachyear out of the office either individually or as a team, be found on page 87. tovolunteer for a charity or a community group day.
Tax Our One Day initiative is hugely popular, giving everyone As part of our contribution to society we believe that it is thetime to support causes they are personally dedicated to.
important to pay the appropriate amount of tax and manage This year several of our people supported our national charity our tax obligations responsibly.
For the first time, this year we Mind, by taking part in a Retail Challenge, where teams are publishing the Groups total tax contribution of 961.7 competed against each other to raise the most money for million, which includes the Groups direct and indirect tax theMind shop they worked in.
contribution as well as amounts collected on behalf of the UKExchequer.
See the full tax contribution note and tax strategy onpage 37.
Suppliers The Prompt Payment Code sets out standards for payment practices for the benefit of suppliers.
The Group is committed tomaintaining the highest possible standards of integrity with suppliers and partners and is a long-standing signatory of the Prompt Payment Code.
During the financial year, the Group remained committed to prompt payment terms to ensure fair payment practices.
Our diversity and inclusion practices are in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our Ethical Code forSuppliers requires that all our suppliers adhere to the core International Labour Organisation standards.
We support the One of Direct Line Groups teams competing in aims of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and are committed to MindsRetail Challenge.
ensuring that modern slavery is not present in our supply chain.
54 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Emissions Our planet You can find information on Group-wide greenhouse gas GHG emissions in the chart below and more details Environmental credentials ofouremissions in the Directors report on page 120.
Our Reduce, Reuse, Recycle strategy guides the Group in In absolute terms, we have reduced our emissions significantly meeting its environmental objectives.
Simple changes have after rationalising and implementing an energy-savings plan proven successful: across our estate over the last six years, resulting in a 46% Targeting a 30% reduction in energy consumption by 2020 reduction in GHG emissions.
against a 2013 baseline We communicate the details of a carbon management Introducing travel free weeks reducing our CO emissions 2 programme through the Carbon Disclosure Project and Diverting 100% of office waste from landfill thisyearachieved a rating of B.
Maintaining our commitment to source 100% of our electricity from renewable sources Waste This year we have taken further steps to build a sustainable future.
We remain focused on improving our waste management systems.
In 2018, 98% of total waste produced across theGroup was recycled or recovered for energy use.
Recycling coffee cups Thiscompares with 72% last year.
The popularity of coffee presents a recycling challenge for a company our size.
Climate change Thats why we have partnered with a company called Simply The Groups use of catastrophe reinsurance mitigates against Cups, which works with companies to help them separate many of the worst potential physical risks from climate change, theplastic film that can make recycling difficult.
We have and the Group regularly reassesses its use of catastrophe successfully introduced a pilot in our Bromley office where models with the objective of ensuring they fully capture dedicated recycling points are encouraging our people to climate-related risks.
Simply Cups collects our cupsand sends them to a specialist processor which enables Efforts to mitigate against climate change are driving a us to recycle 20,000 cups per month.
fide-carbonisation of the economy, including a transition towardselectric vehicles.
While this does not fundamentally change the business model, the Group continues to develop Environmental Champions thenew processes, skills and technical knowledge required To further entrench the importance of sustainability across the tokeep pace with changes in vehicle technology.
Group we have appointed 10 Environmental Champions inour core sites.
Working with the Institute for Environmental The Group has reviewed its investment strategy, deciding that a Management they have received accredited training, increasing greater weighting should be given towards issuers with stronger their awareness of how sustainability issues affect the workplace.
ESG credentials including climate change.
More information They are using this knowledge to discuss a range of can be found in the Investment Committees section of the environmental issues and drive change across the Group.
Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes Our Head Office in Bromley is successfully recycling 20,000 coffee cups per month.
CO. UK 55 27,308 22,611 19,315 17,399 16,219 PEOPLE AND CULTURE Our people We are nothing without our people.
We employ thousands of people throughout the UK who use their skills and expertise to help make insurance much easier and better value for our customers.
We know that to remain a successful business we must reflect Yet again we saw positive results, with an increase in our full the customers we serve on a daily basis.
We are proud of engagement score from 78% to 81% 36 percentage points ourdiversity and actively encourage people to celebrate the higher than when we first ran the survey in 2014. different personalities that make up the Group.
It is central to The percentage of employees who are proud to work for the our values and our identity.
Group also increased from 91% in 2017 to 92%, while 87% We have an open culture of dialogue between management tell others that the Group is a great place to work 85% in 2017. and staff at all levels.
This is underpinned by an Employee Representative Body ERB which is made up of colleagues elected by their peers to represent their views at divisional andcompany-wide level.
As of October 2018 our gross 92% staffturnover rate was 16.5%.
of employees are proud It is one of the reasons why we have such an engaged and motivated workforce, with 90% of employees taking part in to work for the Group ouremployee opinion survey this year.
When we receive damaged cars Iprepare, paint and polish vehiclesto the manufacturers standard.
We have a great Im shaping the way we deliver our working future recruitment programme.
The environment here, fantastic technology we can use for being part of a video interviews will really move us team that cares into the digital era.
for its customers CHRISTINE SWIFT and employees.
RECRUITMENT TEAM MANAGER, LEEDS I love how customer focused thebusiness is.
It is very open tofeedback, encouraging everyone to put forward ideas toimprove the customer journey.
DIPIKA BAJWA JASON HODGSON CUSTOMER SERVICE PAINT TECHNICIAN, DLG AUTO ADVISOR, LEEDS SERVICES, WELWYN GARDEN CITY 56 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Shared parental leave and pay mirrors our maternity and Best Companies results adoption benefits: our employees can ask to split their leave We came third in the Best Big Companies to Work For award into shorter periods with periods of work in between, to help inthe prestigious Sunday Times list 2019.
This has come from settle back in as easily as possible a collective belief that having a great team of highly engaged Up to 12 weeks full pay as part of a phased return to work people pulling in the same direction will deliver better results for following a period of maternity adoption shared parental customers, and in turn, great results for shareholders.
For more leave for all employees information see www.
b. co. uk the-lists big-companies.
Two weeks paid paternity leave for all employees My life Up to four weeks unpaid parental leave each year is also available to all parents, carers and grandparents We understand that work doesnt always come first.
Were all human beings with our own families, people we care for, other A period of paid compassionate leave can be agreed responsibilities and dreams to follow.
We launched a new set foranyone of policies, designed to be simple and flexible, to help our Paid time off and or flexible working arrangements can be people focus on what matters to them.
agreed during IVF investigations and treatment Employees with at least one years service receive full pay Up to 12 months unpaid lifestyle break for anyone wishing during the first 20 weeks of maternity and adoption leave topursue something that really matters to them We know that successful businesses are the ones that offer greater flexibility and take meaningful steps to help people achieve this.
We are proud of being one of the first 10 companies to back a campaign calling for large firms topublish policies on their external websites.
I help monitor and oversee Idea Lab the risk The Group runs Idea Lab, rewarding employees who generate management solutions to improve our customers experience and make the decisions the business more efficient.
This has empowered people to think business needs differently and share their creativity.
I love Some of the highlights include: the breadth of Giving our drivers tool kits when returning vehicles to what we do customers in case any further minor damage arises on the asa team, delivery which can be instantly fixed were always Improving efficiency with extra vehicle checks for our thinking GreenFlag business differently.
Using dedicated social media pages to alert customers to fraud trends This year we celebrated three years of success with over 5,900 ideas.
3.25 million Saved for the business 137,000 Awarded to our people LAURA BROMFIELD 27,300 INSURANCE RISK Donated to charity MANAGER, BROMLEY WWW.
CO. UK 57 PEOPLE AND CULTURE CONTINUED Employee share incentive scheme Diversity and inclusion All colleagues are able to benefit from an attractive Buy As You Building a diverse and inclusive culture takes multiple Earn scheme.
Our people are rewarded with a top up share initiativesto work together.
We remain focused on bringing for every two they purchase, incentivising people to benefit innew methods to improve our performance, ensuring that all from the Groups success.
employees take ownership in communicating the importance ofinclusive behaviour.
Colleagues have also benefited from free share awards.
InMarch 2018 colleagues received a 500 free share To challenge ourselves, we took the step this year to sign an awardto celebrate the Groups anniversary of its launch on industry-wide pledge that sets out expected minimum standards theLondon Stock Exchange: this is in addition to three separate of inclusive behaviour.
It commits us to speak up and call out share awards made in previous years.
These schemes are inappropriate or discriminatory behaviour, even when it is equivalent to an Employee Stock Purchase Plan and Employee uncomfortable to do so.
Stock Ownership Plan in the US.
Diversity Women in Finance Charter The Group is proud of its Diversity Network Alliance DNA, The Group made significant progress against the Women the employee network which champions diversity and inclusion inFinance Charter commitment of 30% females in senior in our business.
leadership positions by 2019, and in 2018 we achieved We are building inclusive leadership programmes for all 28%.
This improvement has come from a combination of managers to assist them in managing their teams.
Senior external hires utilising methods such as gender balanced leadership teams are also setting specific diversity commitments shortlists, and internal promotions, which will continue by aligned to their functions needs, including, but not limited to, utilising the Groups new cross functional talent mobility forum.
Hampton Alexander Review This year our recruitment team has received training on removing The Hampton Alexander Review set targets for FTSE 350 gender-biased language when advertising for roles, including companies to have at least 33% women on their Board and how to use tools which identify gender specific wording.
The Group is ranked 13th Pay inthe FTSE 100 for female Board representation, with 42% of the Board being female.
This exceeds the target ahead of time.
In April the Group reviewed its pay structure and introduced Within the FTSE 350 Non-Life Insurance sector, we are ranked anew company-wide minimum base salary of 18,000 for 1st for female Board representation and 4th for combined full-time colleagues, 6% higher than the Living Wage and Executive Committee and direct reports to the Board.
18%higher than the National Minimum Wage.
As of April 2018, our median gender pay gap was 15.4% Gender diversity of all employees compared to the financial services industry average of 22%.
Annual Incentive Plan 5,967 5,262 The Groups AIP ensures that all our people are judged on 2017: 5,718 2017: 5,090 thebasis of delivering against our Customer Experience and Male Female People agendas.
We know that a good customer experience means that people are more likely to recommend us to others.
This is why the Groups Customer Experience agenda is focused on making it easy for customers when they take outcover, need to make a claim or require complaints to be resolved swiftly.
We are only able to deliver this due to our people, which is why we place a sharp focus on diversity and inclusion and regularly engage with our people throughout the Gender diversity of senior managers year.
The AIP therefore ensures a strong link between pay and the Groups performance on these specific metrics.
99 39 2017: 102 2017: 34 Male Female 58 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our #ThisIsMe campaign has encouraged open and honest Mental health and wellbeing discussion about challenges some of our people face daily Stress, depression and mental health issues are unfortunately Ran successful lunchtime sessions, exercise classes, holistic increasingly common in the UK.
Mental health is central to the treatments and mindfulness sessions during Mental Health Groups Wellbeing Strategy.
We give our people immediate Awareness Week access to free and confidential support, with professional, independent and impartial information and counselling.
Staff Ran our first Mental Health First Aiders conference allowing can also talk to our external provider about any issue including 650 colleagues to come together and collaborate with stress, work issues, finances, family or personal crises or renowned mental health campaigners anything else that is on their mind.
Find out more at https: www.
co. uk en There are a number of steps we have put in place to help us all responsibility people .
html feel comfortable discussing mental health and raise awareness: Our Mental Health First Aiders programme, training over Graduate and apprenticeship 135 mental health first aiders, meaning we now have programmes atleast one on every floor, in every site.
This has been supported by training our people managers on mental Our graduate programme continues to develop the next healthand resilience through our Engage programme generation of leaders.
We currently have over 100 graduates placed across the business, gaining first hand experience in Formed a partnership with the charity Mind in England areas such as Underwriting, Risk, Claims and customer facing andtheir partner charity the Scottish Association for Mental roles.
Regular rotation gives them deep insight into the Groups Health with the ambition of raising 100,000, which has overall business strategy and changing consumer needs.
the potential to fund 13,000 people in a time of need via Minds national helpline We also have 285 apprentices gaining technical expertise Became a gold partner of This Can Happen, a charity across various functions including Pricing, Auto Services and focused specifically on tackling mental health issues in Human Resources.
Their development is supported by the theworkplace opportunity to study for vocational qualifications, allowing ourapprentices to become established in the business.
Backed the Wheres Your Head At?
campaign calling formental health provision in the workplace to be put on anequal footing with physical first aid Gender diversity of Board of Directors 7 5 2017: 7 2017: 4 Male Female Statement of the Directors in respect of the Strategic report The Board reviewed and approved the Strategic report onpages 1 to 59 on 4 March 2019.
