30 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is committed to protecting and enhancing Diplomas The detailed risk evaluation process begins in the operating reputation and assets, while safeguarding the interests of businesses with an annual exercise undertaken by management shareholders.
It has overall responsibility for the Groups system to identify and document the significant strategic, operational, of risk management and internal control.
financial and accounting risks facing the businesses.
This process is both robust and challenging: it ensures that risks are identified Diplomas businesses are affected by a number of risks and and monitored and that management controls are embedded in uncertainties.
These may be impacted by internal and external the business operations.
factors, some of which we cannot control.
Many of the risks are similar to those found by comparable companies in terms of scale The Group uses a quantitative method to determine a risk score and operations.
for each risk which is based on both the likelihood of each identified risk occurring and the consequence of an adverse OUR APPROACH outcome and its impact on the business.
Each business will then Risk management and maintenance of appropriate systems of identify processes established to control each risk and minimise control to manage risk is the responsibility of the Board and is its potential impact.
integral to the ability of the Group to deliver on its strategic priorities.
The Board has developed a framework of risk The risk assessments from each of the operating businesses management that is used to establish the culture of effective risk are then considered by the Board who evaluate the principal management throughout the businesses by identifying and risks of the Group with reference to the Groups strategy and monitoring the material risks, setting risk appetite and operating environment.
determining the overall risk tolerance of the Group.
This framework of risk management has been further enhanced this OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES year and additional processes have been developed, which will Set out in this section of the Strategic Report are the assist the Board to monitor and assess the principal risks principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group that throughout the year.
have been determined by the Board, based on a robust risk evaluation process described above, to potentially The Groups risk management systems are monitored by the have the greatest impact on the Groups future viability.
Audit Committee, under delegation from the Board.
The Audit These risks are similar to those reported last year, although Committee is responsible for overseeing the effectiveness of the with some movement on the relative ranking of these internal control environment of the Group.
There were no new principal risks identified from function has been established for many years to provide the review process carried out by the Board this year.
independent assurance that the Groups risk management, governance and internal control processes are operating The risks are each classified as either strategic, operational, effectively.
The Groups decentralised operations with different Sectors and geographical spread reduces the IDENTIFYING AND MONITORING MATERIAL RISKS impact of these principal risks.
Material risks are identified through a detailed analysis of individual processes and procedures bottom up approach and a The Board has also considered the risks associated with the UKs consideration of the strategy and operating environment of the vote to leave the European Union and this is explained further on Group top down approach.
page 29 in the Finance Review.
VIABILITY STATEMENT DIPLOMA PLC The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable and geographies, about future growth rates of the existing expectation that the Group will continue to operate and businesses and about the acceptable performance of existing meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years businesses.
A robust financial model of the Group is built on a business-by-business basis and the metrics for the Groups KPIs to September 2021.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the resilience of the Group and are reviewed for the assessment period.
These metrics are also its strong financial position, the Groups current strategy, subject to sensitivity analysis that includes flexing a number of the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks the main assumptions, namely, future revenue growth, gross margins, operating costs and working capital management.
The and how these are managed, as described in the Strategic Report.
In October 2018, the Board approved a report results of flexing these assumptions, both individually and in on an update of the Groups strategy for the three years aggregate to reflect a reasonable worse case scenario, are used ending 30 September 2021, as described on page 40. to determine whether additional bank facilities will be required during this period.
The Group has a broad spread of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and The Directors confirm that this robust assessment independent market sectors, often secured with longer also considers the principal risks facing the Group, as described on pages 31 to 33 and the potential impacts term agreements.
The Group is supported by a robust balance sheet and strong operational cash flows.
these risks would have on the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity over the The assessment period of three years has been chosen as it is assessment period.
The Board considers that the diverse nature of the Sectors and geographies in which consistent with the Boards triennial review of the Groups strategy at which the prospects of each business are discussed: the Group operates acts significantly to mitigate the assumptions are made regarding entering into new markets impact any of these risks might have on the Group.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND ASSESSMENT MITIGATION STRATEGIC RISK Adverse changes in the major markets in which the The businesses identify key market DOWNTURN businesses operate can have a significant impact drivers and monitor the trends and on performance.
The effects of these changes can forecasts, as well as maintaining INSTABILITY IN be seen in terms of slowing revenue growth, due to close relationships with key MAJOR MARKETS reduced or delayed demand for products and services, customers who may give an early or margin pressures due to increased competition.
CHANGE A number of characteristics of the Groups businesses Changes to cost levels and inventories moderate the impact of economic and business cycles can then be made in a measured on the Group as a whole: way to mitigate the effects.
The Groups businesses operate in three differing Sectors Significant global events are closely with different cyclical characteristics and across a number monitored to determine any of geographic markets.
potential impact on key markets.
The global economic outlook was more uncertain towards the end of the financial year.
The businesses offer specialised products and services, which are often specific to their application: this offers a degree of protection against customers quickly switching business to achieve a better price.
A high proportion of the Groups revenues comprise consumable products that are purchased as part of the customers operating expenditure, rather than through capital budgets.
In many cases the products are used in repair, maintenance and refurbishment applications, rather than original equipment manufacturer.
STRATEGIC RISK For manufacturer-branded products, there are risks to the Long term, multi-year exclusive SUPPLIER business if a major supplier decides to cancel a distribution contracts signed with suppliers with CONCENTRATION agreement or if the supplier is acquired by a company that has change of control clauses, where its own distribution channels in the relevant market.
There is possible, included in contracts for LOSS OF KEY also the risk of a supplier taking away exclusivity and either protection or compensation in the SUPPLIERS setting up direct operations or appointing another distributor.
CHANGE Currently no single supplier represents more than 10% of Collaborative projects and relationships Group revenue and only five suppliers represent more than maintained with individuals at many 2% each of Group revenue.
levels of the supplier organisation, together with regular review meetings Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up over and adherence to contractual terms.
many years and a strong degree of interdependence has been established.
The average length of the principal supplier Regular review of inventory levels.
relationships in each of the Sectors is over ten years.
Bundling and kitting of products and The strength of the relationship with each supplier and the provision of added value services.
volume of activity generally ensures continuity of supply, when there is shortage of product.
Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of contingency planning.
The success of the businesses depends significantly on representing suppliers whose products are recognised in the The businesses work very closely with marketplace as the leading competitive brand.
If suppliers fail each of their suppliers and regularly to support these products with new development and attend industry exhibitions to keep technologies, then our businesses will suffer from reduced abreast of the latest technology and market requirements trends.
The demand for their products and services.
businesses also meet with key customers on a regular basis to gain insight into their product requirements and market developments.
32 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND ASSESSMENT MITIGATION STRATEGIC RISK The loss of one or more major customers can be a Specific large customers are important CUSTOMER material risk.
to individual operating businesses CONCENTRATION and a high level of effort is invested The nature of the Groups businesses is such that there is in ensuring that these customers LOSS OF KEY not a high level of dependence on any individual customer are retained and encouraged not CUSTOMER S and no single customer represents more than 4% of to switch to another supplier.
Sector revenue or more than 2% of Group revenue.
CHANGE In addition to providing high levels of customer service and value added activities, close integration is established where possible with customers systems and processes.
OPERATIONAL RISK Group and operating business management depend critically on There is good support and back-up CYBERSECURITY timely and reliable information from their IT systems to run their built into local IT systems and the INFORMATION businesses.
The Group seeks to ensure continuous availability, spread of businesses with their own security and operation of those information systems.
stand alone IT systems also offers TECHNOLOGY good protection from individual BUSINESS Cyber threats to the businesses information systems have this events.
The majority of businesses INTERRUPTION year reduced, following action taken to strengthen the IT back-up online data at least once a infrastructure environment across the Groups businesses.
day to an offsite data storage centre.
CHANGE Any disruption or denial of service may delay or impact A member of the Executive Management decision making through lack of availability of reliable data.
Committee is responsible for ensuring Poor information handling or interruption of business may each business in the Group has a robust also lead to reduced service to customers.
Unintended cybersecurity programme and reports actions of employees caused by a cyber-attack may also lead twice a year to the main Board on the to disruption, including fraud.
status of cybersecurity across the Group.
In addition, education awareness of In North American Seals, HFPGs Aftermarket business is cyber threats continues to ensure Group operated from a single warehouse based in Tampa, Florida employees protect themselves and which continues to be exposed to hurricanes during the Group assets.
At 30 September 2018, the season from August to November.
majority of businesses had achieved the UK Government endorsed Cyber Essentials accreditation: it is expected that all businesses will be fully accredited within the next six months.
Business continuity plans exist for each business with ongoing testing.
OPERATIONAL RISK The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing Contractual terms such as notice LOSS OF KEY management teams in the operating businesses, committed periods and non-compete clauses can to the success of their respective businesses.
As a result, the mitigate the risk in the short term.
PERSONNEL loss of key personnel can have an impact on performance, for However, more successful initiatives a limited time period.
focus on ensuring a challenging work CHANGE environment with appropriate reward The average length of service of the ca.
The Group places very high in the Group is 11 years and for all personnel in the Group is importance on planning the consistently ca.
development, motivation and reward for key managers in the operating The uncertainty this year relating to the appointment and businesses including: subsequent departure of the Chief Executive Officer has led to some instability in management and employees within Ensuring a challenging working the Group.
environment where managers feel they have control over, and responsibility for, their businesses.
Establishing management development programmes to ensure a broad base of talented managers.
Offering a balanced and competitive compensation package with a combination of salary, annual bonus and long term cash or share incentive plans targeted at the individual business level.
Giving the freedom, encouragement, financial resources and strategic support for managers to pursue ambitious growth plans.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND ASSESSMENT MITIGATION OPERATIONAL RISK There is a risk that products supplied by a Group business may Technically qualified personnel and PRODUCT fail in service, which could lead to a claim under product control systems are in place to ensure LIABILITY liability.
The businesses, in their terms and conditions of sale products meet quality requirements.
with customers, will typically mirror the terms and conditions The Groups businesses are required to of purchase from the suppliers.
In this way the liability can be undertake Product Risk assessments CHANGE limited and subrogated to the supplier.
and comprehensive Supplier Quality Assurance assessments.
The Group has If a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our business as a also established Group-wide product party to the claim and the business may be exposed to legal liability insurance which provides costs and potential damages if the claim succeeds and the worldwide umbrella insurance cover of 30m across all Sectors.
supplier fails to meet its liabilities for whatever reason.
Product liability insurance can be limited in terms of its scope of insurable events, such as product recall.
The Groups businesses have undergone product liability training and are continually reviewed to demonstrate In situations where a Group business is selling own-branded products and cannot subrogate the liability to a supplier, the compliance with Group policies and business will be liable for failure of the product.
A Group procedures relating to product liability.
business may also be liable for the associated costs of a subsequent customer recall arising directly from failure of an own-branded product.
FINANCIAL RISK Foreign currency risk is the risk that currency rates will affect The Group operates across a number FOREIGN the Groups results.
The Group is exposed to two types of of diverse geographies but does not CURRENCY financial risk caused by currency volatility: translational hedge translational exposure of exposure, being the effect that currency movements have on operating profit and net assets.
the Groups financial statements on translating the results of CHANGE overseas subsidiaries into UK sterling: and transactional The Groups businesses may hedge up exposure, being the effect that currency movements have on to 80% of forecast being a maximum the results of operating businesses because their revenues or of 18 months foreign currency product costs are denominated in a currency other than their transactional exposures using forward local currency.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to The Group finance department monitors translational foreign exchange risk arising from various rolling monthly forecasts of currency currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar, exposures.
the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the Euro.
The results and net assets of the Groups operations outside the Details of average exchange rates used UK are also exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
in the translation of overseas earnings and of year end exchange rates used in A strengthening of UK sterling by 10% against all the the translation of overseas balance currencies in which the Group does business, would reduce sheets, for the principal currencies used adjusted operating profit before tax by approximately 6.5m by the Group, are shown in note 29 to 8%, due to currency translation.
Similarly, a strengthening of the consolidated financial statements.
UK sterling by 10% against all the non-UK sterling capital employed would reduce shareholders funds by 20.4m.
The Groups UK businesses are exposed to transactional foreign exchange risk on those purchases that are denominated in a currency other than their local currency, principally US dollars and Euros.
The Groups Canadian and Australian businesses are also exposed to a similar risk as the majority of their purchases are denominated in US dollars and Euros.
The Groups US businesses do not have any material foreign currency transactional risk.
ACCOUNTING RISK Working capital management is critical to success in Inventory write-offs are controlled and INVENTORY specialised industrial distribution businesses as this has a minimised by active management of major impact on cash flow.
The principal risk to working inventory levels based on sales OBSOLESCENCE capital is in inventory obsolescence and write-off.
forecasts and regular cycle counts.
CHANGE The charge against operating profit in respect of old or surplus Where necessary, a provision is made inventory in the year was 1.5m but inventories are generally to cover both excess inventory and not subject to technological obsolescence.
