Dominos Pizza Group plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Risk management The Board has continued to identify, evaluate and monitor risks facing the Group and, during the year under review, a particular focus has been placed on assessing the likely impact that each identified risk could have on the business.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND OUR APPROACH UNCERTAINTIES All businesses choose to take and not as an additional bureaucratic The business faces a wide range of risks on considered risks in the expectation of chore.
Principal risks are recorded in a daily basis.
The Board has undertaken a earning a return for their shareholders.
the Groups risk register and regularly robust assessment of what it believes are The Board has determined its risk reviewed and evaluated.
Each risk the principal risks facing the Company, appetite, stating the risks it seeks to has a business owner, responsible including those that would threaten its take or is prepared to face within the for managing that risk, implementing business model, future performance, Companys business model and the appropriate controls and mitigating solvency or liquidity.
The table overleaf adopted strategy, and has also defined actions and reporting on it to the summarises these principal risks and how the risks it is not prepared to take.
In turn, the principal they are being managed or mitigated.
latter are avoided or eliminated, as far risks are reported on to the Board.
The risks in this table have been assessed as possible, or transferred to insurers.
As a sense-check on managements on a residual basis according to our The Board is responsible for overseeing actions, the Board undertakes its own current view of the potential severity managements activities in identifying, assessment of principal risks in each being the combination of impact and evaluating and managing the risks year, which is then integrated into the probability and assume that existing facing the Group.
Importantly, we treat risk register.
These known risks are controls are effective.
We have linked the identifying and managing risk as an taken into account in developing the risks to the strategic pillars described on integral part of managing the business, Groups strategy and business plans.
The environment in which we operate is constantly evolving: new risks may arise, the potential impact of known risks may increase or decrease and or our SHAREHOLDERS assessment of these risks may change.
The risks therefore represent a snapshot of what the Board believes are the principal risks and are not an exhaustive GROUP EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM list of all risks the Company faces.
The Board has considered the risk posed by Brexit and does not consider that it presents a principal risk to the business model.
As reported previously, IDENTIFY there are potential Brexit-related RISK risks associated with increases in raw material and labour cost increases for our franchisees.
A no deal Brexit carries the increased risk of disruption to raw material supplies into the UK.
The REGULARLY ASSESS RISK Company has implemented a series of REVIEW AND AND IMPACT contingency measures to minimise the EVALUATE impact of supply chain disruption.
THE BOARD UPDATE CREATE KEY RISK MITIGATION REGISTER STRATEGY Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 35 STRATEGIC PILLARS Balanced network Engaged Colleagues Store convenience See our Strategy section Innovative technology Capital management Best customer experience for more information on Efficient manufacturing Favourite brand Best customer value pages 22 to 27 Strategic risks PEOPLE-RELATED RISKS FAILURE TO RESPOND TO AND INABILITY TO REACT TO CHANGES OVERCOME COMPETITIVE PRESSURES IN THE HEALTH DEBATE AND PUBLIC DESIRE FOR HEALTHIER FOOD LINK TO STRATEGIC PILLARS LINK TO STRATEGIC PILLARS LINK TO STRATEGIC PILLARS RISK RISK RISK The business is overly dependent on key The business faces strong competition from As societys expectations evolve, and individuals either at Executive level or a range of players, including those exploiting governments act on public health concerns, we in relation to specialist skills, possibly emerging technologies or new food options may need to change the products we offer and exacerbated by a failure to attract or retain and new entrants into the UK market our approach to marketing the skilled and experienced people it needs POTENTIAL IMPACT POTENTIAL IMPACT POTENTIAL IMPACT Medium High Medium PROBABILITY PROBABILITY PROBABILITY Medium Medium Low MITIGATION MITIGATION MITIGATION The Board considers succession planning Management keeps the competitive Management keeps consumers purchasing on a regular basis and has set the CEO landscape under continual review and preferences under continual review and a personal objective of developing the Board also monitors the markets in adjusts menus in response to these.
We also multiple potential successors in key roles.
which it operates, as well as KPI data on engage, appropriately, with the government Contingency plans are in place which could the current business.
Strategy is reviewed on the public health debate to ensure that be implemented on a short-term basis and developed by the Board on at least an our views are understood by policy makers should we suddenly lose a key Executive annual basis and influencers NATURE OF THREAT NATURE OF THREAT NATURE OF THREAT These risks could have some impact on future These risks have the potential to compromise These risks have the potential to compromise performance, for a limited time our future performance or, in an extreme our future performance or, in an extreme scenario, even the business model scenario, even the business model CHANGE FROM 2017 CHANGE FROM 2017 CHANGE FROM 2017 COMMENTARY COMMENTARY COMMENTARY There has been considerable work undertaken Online channels that provide access to diverse The Group is continually reviewing its this year to improve the HR operating model cuisine options are becoming an increasing force products and ingredients to ensure they meet to establish more robust processes for talent in the market place.
The Group is investing in its governmental guidelines whilst delivering management and succession planning.
People eCommerce channels to enhance the customer the best possible taste for our customers.
planning sessions are being held at all levels experience and maintain a highly competitive We anticipate that during H1 2019 the UK within the organisation to utilise better the offering.
Additionally, trials are ongoing to Government will publish recommendations on skills pool, drive performance and identify and assess whether these other online channels can tackling childhood obesity.
The Group keeps develop successors for key roles also be used for profitable incremental customer its products under regular review and some acquisition products may undergo reformulation to reduce sugar, salt and fat levels as required Dominos Pizza Group plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Risk management continued The Board identify, evaluate and monitor risks facing the Group and, during the year under review, a particular focus has been placed on assessing the likely impact that each identified risk could have on the business.
Strategic risks continued FAILURE TO ACHIEVE GROWTH COMMERCIAL LEVERAGE OF LARGE THROUGH NEW STORE OPENINGS FRANCHISEES LINK TO STRATEGIC PILLARS LINK TO STRATEGIC PILLARS RISK RISK Failure to meet store growth targets would be The Group has a number of franchisees whose a breach of our Master Franchise Agreements businesses run large numbers of stores, and so MFAs.
Our ability to open new stores enjoy some commercial leverage.
depends on our ability to lease or buy suitable The Group may be unable to persuade these premises in target territories, obtain the franchisees to implement our preferred necessary planning approvals and identify a strategies, or to pass on cost increases in suitable franchisee to run the store full or in part POTENTIAL IMPACT POTENTIAL IMPACT High High PROBABILITY PROBABILITY Low Medium MITIGATION MITIGATION Board approval is needed for the targets Open and transparent relationships with contained within the MFAs, and the Board multi-site franchisees are managed at monitors the pipeline of proposed store senior levels of the Group.
We regularly openings on a continual basis.
Franchisee explain and emphasise the profit-sharing development programmes operate as model to all franchisees, so that they required and we employ surveyors to understand that success is mutual.
Our identify and secure appropriate premises focus is on support and development for smaller franchisees NATURE OF THREAT NATURE OF THREAT These risks could have an impact on These risks have the potential to compromise future performance.
In an extreme case an our future performance for a period of time unremedied breach of the UK & Ireland MFA could threaten the Companys business model and liquidity CHANGE FROM 2017 CHANGE FROM 2017 COMMENTARY COMMENTARY The overall risk remains broadly similar to the The actual risk has not changed materially prior year.
For the UK and Ireland, the MFA during the year but there has been increased targets have been agreed for a 10 year period public debate on the perceived pressure on starting in 2016 requiring 350 additional stores franchisee store profitability.
There is regular, over the period on a net basis.
The Group is open and frank dialogue with the franchisee on schedule to meet the growth targets in its community throughout the year to mitigate other territories this risk Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 37 STRATEGIC PILLARS Balanced network Engaged Colleagues Store convenience See our Strategy section Innovative technology Capital management Best customer experience for more information on Efficient manufacturing Favourite brand Best customer value pages 22 to 27 Operational risks FOOD SAFETY INTERRUPTION OF RAW SUPPLY CHAIN CENTRES ARE UNABLE MATERIAL SUPPLIES TO SUPPLY THE STORES LINK TO STRATEGIC PILLARS LINK TO STRATEGIC PILLARS LINK TO STRATEGIC PILLARS RISK RISK RISK There is the risk of contamination in either the The business relies on a number of third-party We distribute both the pre-proved dough we pre-proved dough we produce at the Groups suppliers, some of whom provide the sole produce and third-party pizza toppings to our Supply Chain Centres, or in the pizza topping source of an ingredient.
In the event of physical ingredients we distribute to our franchisees damage to, or loss of, a Supply Chain Centre These suppliers must make a commercial stores.
Where we operate corporate stores, we would need to make urgent contingency return to stay in business and reinvest in their and are responsible for finished products, arrangements wherever possible.
The Group would be vulnerable if this risk is exacerbated space required to hold dough whilst proving a supplier decided to cease trading, suffered a forms a critical constraint to our business major interruption or food safety incident, or was responsible for an ethical breach of such severity that the Group would no longer trade with them POTENTIAL IMPACT POTENTIAL IMPACT POTENTIAL IMPACT Medium High High PROBABILITY PROBABILITY PROBABILITY Medium Low Medium MITIGATION MITIGATION MITIGATION The business has implemented a rigorous Suppliers are selected through competitive In the event of the loss of a Supply Chain regime of standards and food safety tendering and appropriate due diligence Centre, third-party ingredients could be checks, with the Supply Chain Centres processes.
The economics of their delivered to stores direct, at an additional accredited to the internationally recognized businesses are kept under review and their cost.
Loss of our dough production facilities food safety standard FSC 22000 performance against their obligations would be more difficult to overcome, but monitored.
We assess their compliance contract production of dough would be with acceptable business standards possible, at an additional cost NATURE OF THREAT NATURE OF THREAT NATURE OF THREAT If this risk materialised, it could have a These risks have the potential to compromise These risks could have a significant impact on significant impact on future performance and our future performance for a limited time future performance and potentially liquidity, potentially liquidity, for a limited time.
The for a limited time reputational impact could have a longer-term effect on performance and, in an extreme case, threaten the business model CHANGE FROM 2017 CHANGE FROM 2017 CHANGE FROM 2017 COMMENTARY COMMENTARY COMMENTARY The risk continues to be monitored on a regular An ongoing programme is underway to reduce The level of risk has reduced.
The current basis by a qualified in-house resource.
The Board supplier dependency and improve security of supply chain configuration provides a routinely receives reports on food safety risk supplies through dual sourcing.
Our supply degree of over capacity to manage short controls.
During the year we have strengthened risk relating to single-source supplies has been to medium supply issues from the loss of compliance with our supplier assurance reduced through increasing capability across dough production capacity.
This situation is programme with demonstrable improvements providers with multiple supply sites regularly reviewed to take account of growth in supplier standards.
The third-party assurance in the system provided by FSC 22000 ensures robust operational controls are in place Dominos Pizza Group plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Risk management CONTINUED STRATEGIC PILLARS Balanced network Engaged Colleagues Store convenience See our Strategy section Innovative technology Capital management Best customer experience for more information on Efficient manufacturing Favourite brand Best customer value pages 22 to 27 Operational risks continued FAILURE OF ONLINE ORDERING LOSS OF PERSONAL DATA RELATING SYSTEMS FOR A PROLONGED OR TO CUSTOMERS, EMPLOYEES OR CRITICAL PERIOD OTHERS: LOSS OF CORPORATE DATA LINK TO STRATEGIC PILLARS LINK TO STRATEGIC PILLARS RISK RISK Over 85% of delivered sales are now placed For ease of use, our online ordering systems online, around half of which are using apps hold some customer data, the loss of which for mobile devices.
As well as the reliance on whether accidental or following hacking data centres and our own software developed would cause disruption and cost to the in house, there is also a risk from systems Group.
In addition, the Groups own data on implementation and design failures, and from employees and suppliers is exposed to the malicious denial of service attacks same risks of loss POTENTIAL IMPACT POTENTIAL IMPACT High High PROBABILITY PROBABILITY Medium Medium MITIGATION MITIGATION Cyber-risk appears on the Board agenda Cyber-risk appears on the Board agenda and Audit Committee agenda on a regular and Audit Committee agenda on a basis and management reviews the regular basis and management keeps the performance of its IT infrastructure on a security of data under its ownership or continual basis.
Our systems are hosted control under continual review.
We have a by third-party specialists, with parallel robust compliance programme for GDPR.
processing across multiple sites and realFranchisees are trained in their obligations time replication and appropriate protection in respect of personal data and are from malicious attempts to disrupt the required to train their staff appropriately.
availability of our sites Appropriate IT security is in place and kept under continual review.
We do not hold customer credit card data on our systems NATURE OF THREAT NATURE OF THREAT These risks could have some impact on future These risks have the potential to compromise performance, for a limited time our future performance.
In an extreme scenario, the reputational damage could possibly threaten the business model if we suffered a total loss of consumer confidence CHANGE FROM 2017 CHANGE FROM 2017 COMMENTARY COMMENTARY On the whole the level of risk has remained Cyber risk remains a major and increasing constant, but we remain vigilant to the risk threat.
The Groups cyber-security maturity is posed by third parties in terms of potential regularly reviewed by the Groups management system disruption and online fraud.
We have appointed a Group has maintained its compliance with dedicated Chief Information Security Officer PCI level 1 and continues to enhance its who is responsible for driving continual systems control environment technical improvement in data governance and protection capability and systems resilience
