PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We manage the commercial and operational risks faced by the Group in accordance with policies approved by the Board.
We have reviewed the principal risks and continuously monitor the changing risk Each business unit has RMCs that: consider they are broadly unchanged from environment, the Groups principal risks, the previous year, with the addition of the effectiveness of mitigation strategies report to the executive management of Transaction risks to reflect the risks and the application of the risk that area, assisting in the management of associated with the acquisition of framework.
Each executive is responsible generation assets from ScottishPower.
for ensuring that all risks associated The approach manages rather than with their specific area of the business The Board is responsible for defining risk eliminates the risk of failure to achieve are identified, analysed and managed appetite and ensuring the effectiveness business objectives, and provides systematically and appropriately: of risk management and internal controls reasonable, not absolute, assurance has terms of reference that require local across the Group.
The Group has a against material misstatement or loss.
level risk policies and control systems comprehensive system of governance to be approved, implemented and controls to manage key risks.
RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE monitored to ensure that activities are The risk management governance commensurate with the risk appetite GROUP APPROACH TO RISK structure includes executive level established by the Board, are adequately MANAGEMENT principal risk owners and two Group resourced and comply with applicable The effective identification and risk management committees RMCs legal and regulatory requirements.
management of risk across the Group is whose responsibilities include: integral to the delivery of our strategy.
The Group Executive Committee and ensuring that risks are identified, the Board review reporting on risks from The risk appetite determined by the assessed and managed effectively the Group RMCs and from Group Risk.
Board varies dependent on the risk and within risk appetites and limits, In addition, the Audit Committee reviews guides the principles of the Groups culture including new and emerging risks: the suitability and effectiveness of risk and behaviour, and the intensity of risk demonstrating robust governance management processes and controls management activities in achieving our of risk management by reviewing and on behalf of the Board.
challenging risk management across the Group and driving the completion The Group has a Risk Management Policy, of actions to manage risks within risk that was reviewed this year and approved appetites and limits: by the Board, which defines the Groups driving an appropriate risk management approach to risk management.
The key culture, and an environment that elements of the Policy are as follows: promotes and creates positive risk-taking behaviour and clear accountability.
identify principal risks that threaten the achievement of our strategic The Group RMCs receive reports from objectives then assess their significance business unit RMCs and undertake reviews to the business: of the management of each principal risk put in place appropriate mitigating across the Group.
controls to manage identified risks to an acceptable level: escalate and report principal risk and control information to support management decision making: assign responsibility and define accountabilities for risk management and put these into practice across the Group: 44 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Audit Committee Assurance Group Risk Drax Group Plc & Internal Audit Board Group Risk Business Risk Management Management Committees Committees Accountability Group Executive Committee INTERNAL CONTROL The results of each internal audit are Based on the reporting from the Group The Group has a comprehensive and documented in a report for internal RMCs and from the Audit Committee in well-defined internal control system with distribution and action.
A full copy of 2018, the Board determined that it was clear structures, delegated authority levels the report is distributed to the Group not aware of any significant deficiency and accountability.
The Board has adopted Executive Committee and the Chair of or material weakness in the system of a schedule of matters which are required the Audit Committee, with an executive internal control.
to be brought to it for decision.
The internal summary going to the other members of control system is designed to ensure that the Audit Committee.
Each report includes the directors maintain full and effective management responses to Internal control over all significant strategic, Audits findings and recommendations financial and organisational issues.
and an agreement of the actions that management will take to improve the risk Through the Audit Committee, the Board management and the internal control has implemented a programme of internal framework.
In addition to the results of audits of different aspects of the Groups work undertaken by Internal Audit, the activities.
The programme is developed Audit Committee also satisfies itself that based on an assessment of the key risks an action plan is in place and management of the Group, the existing assurance and are addressing issues raised by the controls in place to manage the risks and external auditor in their yearly the core financial control framework.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 45 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued CHANGE IN RISK PROFILE Risks are reported to the Board and disclosed in the annual report and accounts under nine principal risk headings.
These are unchanged from 2017, with the addition of Transaction risks to reflect the risks associated with the acquisition of assets from ScottishPower.
Key Up increasing Down reducing No change Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2018 STRATEGIC RISKS Context Diversifying our generation capacity through Acquisition of portfolio of flexible, the acquisition of 2.6GW of portfolio of renewable, low carbon assets from The Group has a strategy designed to pumped storage, hydro and gas-fired ScottishPower provides significant strengthen the long-term future of the Group.
The strategy includes: generation assets.
diversification of long-term earnings Working on reducing projects costs to and expansion of our renewable Building on our leading market increase competitiveness in the Capacity generation model.
position to provide system stability Market auction: a disciplined approach to Conversion of fourth unit from coal through an increasing portfolio of the auction means such projects will only go to biomass gives greater flexibility flexible: generation and demand.
forward upon obtaining a suitable contract of generation.
This provides higher quality, which meets our hurdle rate.
UK Capacity Market payments and diversified earnings and Working on cost reductions from biomass auctions suspended following ruling management of commodity market supply and generation efficiency to support by the European Court of Justice exposure by increasing contractual post-2027 operations.
LaSalle pellet facility now fully and non-commodity related Actively pursuing potential acquisitions operational supporting self-supply earnings: and of pellet plant facilities and evaluate the target.
Targeted long-term growth case for expansion of existing facilities.
opportunities with priority on post Continually analysing the changing dynamics 2027 earnings and creating new of the markets in which we operate.
opportunities in all the markets in Implementing a programme of targeted which we operate.
investment to incubate new energy products and services to bring to market: research, Risk and impact develop and pilot new technologies: and Development of new, flexible OCGT develop joint ventures and partnerships plants and the re-powering of coal where we need access to new skills and units to gas with a battery storage technology.
option is dependent on winning contracts with acceptable returns in Capacity Market auctions which is uncertain.
Post 2027 biomass generation is dependent upon the cost of generation relative to market prices.
Biomass self-supply requires acquisition and or expansion to achieve the 30% self-supply target.
Acquisition opportunities are dependent on willing vendors or distressed plants coming to market.
The energy markets in which we operate are evolving at a rapid pace.
New entrants compete with existing players in both power generation and B2B Energy Supply and services.
PEOPLE RISKS Context Maintaining consistent Group-wide Continued embedding of our Creating performance management, potential a great place to work strategy centred We need to ensure we have the right people in place with the leadership, assessment and career development around valuing people, driving specialist skills and engagement to frameworks.
business performance and focusing help the Group to compete, innovate Regularly surveying employees to on talent.
This is placing greater onus monitor engagement levels and alignment on performance, learning, equitable and grow.
of people with Group values.
treatment and consistency in Risk and impact Investing in development for all.
approach across the Drax Group.
Our performance and the delivery Ensuring regular employee communications.
As part of the acquisition of assets of our strategy is dependent upon Maintaining reward packages to aid from ScottishPower the c. 250 having strong, high-quality leaders recruitment and retention.
employees who have moved to the and engaged and talented people Drax Group will need continued at all levels of the organisation.
support as they integrate and contribute to our culture and processes.
46 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2018 POLITICAL AND REGULATORY RISKS Engaging with politicians across the political Brexit continues to create uncertainty.
Context We remain alert to changes in spectrum and Government officials to Weakened sterling and difficulties in government policy at UK and EU level.
cross border trade could influence fuel Communicating our socioeconomic costs and or lead to customers going The energy sector is subject to detailed value to the UK.
Delays at ports legislation and regulation that is frequently changing as the economy Working with stakeholders to establish could affect our supplies of fuel and trends towards decarbonising and Drax as a thought leader on priority policy components, although the nature of and regulatory issues.
our dedicated supply chain mitigates decentralising.
Regulation and Engaging with regulators and industry bodies this risk.
compliance generally applicable to businesses is also increasing with to influence strategic direction of, and ensure The Government has confirmed increasing requirements for compliance with, regulatory requirements.
that the Carbon Price Support CPS Working with Energy UK to identify market is set at approximately the right level transparency and accountability.
improvements, enhance competition and although the longer term level is Risk and impact develop voluntary codes of practice.
dependent on how the UK exits the EU.
Changes to UK policy, regulations or Maintaining regulatory and compliance The status of the UK Capacity Market tariffs may reduce our ability to deliver control frameworks to mitigate the risk is uncertain.
UK Capacity Market forecast earnings from our base of non-compliance covering: risk assessment: payments and auctions are currently business and our growth strategy policy development: adequate process: suspended.
putting pressure on our financial training: audit: and continual improvement.
Many ancillary services require policy, results and cash flows.
Issues include regulatory and market change to reform to: legal framework following ensure generators are suitably Brexit: data privacy regulation: compensated for these services.
network access and charging Ofgem is reviewing the way in which arrangements: consumer service network businesses are remunerated and affordability requirements.
and user access is procured costs More complex and challenging allocated, which will impact the cost regulations increase the potential for base of generators and retailers.
non-compliant outcomes, regulatory The Government has introduced a investigation and sanctions.
Brexit price cap for domestic power retailers: may require changes in regulatory we remain vigilant to the risk that this reporting and data requirements.
could be extended to some SMEs.
The smart meter roll-out continues and the obligation to install a smart meter for every customer where reasonable steps have been exhausted remains.
Failures of small energy suppliers cost mutualisation across industry.
The acquisition of assets from ScottishPower will change our engagement with government, particularly in Scotland.
BIOMASS ACCEPTABILITY RISKS Increased transparency in how we Context The legislative process for the The biomass market is still relatively evidence sustainability.
Renewables Energy Directive has new.
Sustainability legislation at Working with academics, think tanks been completed and our current and specialist consultants to improve policy and approach satisfies it.
both an EU and UK level, and public understanding and analysis of the understanding of the benefits of the technology, needs to be improved.
Engaging with key NGOs to discuss issues Risk and impact of contention.
EU or UK sustainability policy changes Forging closer relationships with suppliers could be unworkable and make it on sustainability through the supplier difficult for us to comply with policy relationship programme.
requirements and claim subsidy in Maintaining strong processes to ensure support of economic biomass compliance with regulation.
Increased engagement across all European Detractors and some environmental Institutions Commission, Parliament, Council, NGOs influence policy makers against and relevant UK Government departments.
Developing and maintaining strong coalition with other utilities and those engaged in forest industries including using EU and US forestry expertise to brief Brussels.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 47 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2018 PLANT OPERATING RISKS Implementing a comprehensive risk-based Commissioning of LaSalle BioEnergy Context The reliability of our operating plant is plant investment and maintenance which is now fully operational.
central to our ability to create value for programme.
Newly acquired assets from Maintaining adequate insurance in place to ScottishPower may increase the the Group.
cover losses from plant failure where possible.
overall operating risks until fully Risk and impact Undertaking significant research and integrated.
Single point failures of plant could development on the production of wood result in forced outages in our pellets as well as the handling and burning generation or pellet production plants.
Successful generation using biomass Full testing of all biomass supplies prior requires stringent quality throughout to acceptance and the use of contractual the supply chain, which continues to rights to reject out of specification cargoes.
Poor quality could Maintaining stringent safety procedures result in unplanned loss of generation.
in place for handling biomass and dust management.
Sampling and analysis through the supply chain to increase understanding of causes of fuel quality issues.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND SECURITY RISKS Context Maintaining business continuity, disaster The enforcement of key compliance Our IT systems and data are essential to recovery and crisis management plans regulations GDPR and NIS Directive in place across the Group.
have increased the regulatory and supporting the strategy and operations Maintaining cyber security measures, of the Group and meeting our legal, financial impact of this risk.
including a protect, detect, respond and ScottishPower acquisition with They need to be fit for purpose, fit for use recover strategy, in place.
resulting IT and Security integration Implementing a Retail transformation and compliance.
and the confidentiality, availability and programme with robust governance and IT Operating model redesign to better integrity of the systems and data needs to be ensured.
support strategic objectives of the Implementing a Group IT strategy and key Group and improve efficiency of Risk and impact projects to deliver Group-wide services, technology processes.
Delivery of key IT systems transformation improving security, resilience and Programme of ongoing improvement is needed to support our strategy.
to security, monitoring of key IT Reduced systems performance or Running ScottishPower integration under controls and IT and Security Risk reduced or non-availability of IT systems, a controlled programme and across business management.
data and facilities adversely affecting workstreams.
Security compromise of our systems and data, including personal data, causing operational, financial impact and regulatory non-compliance.
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY RISKS Context Training employees to a high level of TRIR continuing at better than the competence to appreciate and manage industry benchmark.
The health and safety of all our employees, contractors and visitors is of health, safety and environmental risk.
Commissioning of LaSalle BioEnergy paramount importance to us.
We believe Maintaining robust management systems which is now fully operational.
that a safe, compliant and sustainable designed to mitigate risk.
Installation of further fire suppression Continuous reporting of events and prompt devices in our biomass conveying business model is critical to the delivery of our strategy and crucial for sustained implementation of corrective actions.
Safety is at the Continuously monitoring processes to Newly acquired generation assets heart of our operational philosophy and identify trends in performance.
from ScottishPower may increase Auditing of compliance against standards, the environment, health, safety we continue to work across the Group to maintain high standards and a culture policy and procedures.
and environmental risks until fully of safe working.
Compliance with Engaging with regulators and stakeholders integrated.
environmental legislation and our to identify improvements to our systems and operations.
environmental permits and consents is essential to ensure the long-term future Investigating the underlying reasons for of the business.
events and implementation of any necessary changes in the management system Risk and impact and culture.
Our operations involve managing a Timely identification of future legislation range of hazards to personnel and the and appropriate investment to optimise environment that arise from the performance.
48 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2018 TRADING AND COMMODITY RISKS Ensuring high levels of forward power sales Sterling exchange rates against the Context The margins of our Power Generation for 2019 20 and a CfD for one generation Euro and Dollar remain weak.
and B2B Energy Supply businesses are biomass unit.
Power prices higher with low market Enhancing optimisation capabilities through liquidity and increased volatility in influenced by commodity and nonthe newly acquired ScottishPower assets.
commodity market movements, which are inherently volatile.
Hedging energy supply commodity price Prices for wood pellets increased.
exposures when fixed price sales are Generation running regimes optimised Risk and impact executed with third parties.
with managed positions and scenario Uncertainty in trading conditions could Purchasing wood pellets under long-term planning.
result in lower margins and a reduction contracts with fixed pricing.
Conversion of additional unit to in cash flow in our Power Generation Significant hedging of forward foreign biomass provides opportunity for business.
greater flexibility of generation and Drax Power may fail to secure future Hedging fluctuations in ROC generation from management of ROCs.
grid system services contracts which wind farms through weather derivatives.
Increased power generation, change are a source of revenue diversity for in exposure and additional hedging the Group.
requirements with the acquisition of Commercial value from flexibility and assets from ScottishPower.
The OCGT leveraging a complicated supply chain, plants bring a natural hedge to falling with uncertain running regimes gas prices.
requires good trading performance Recent supplier failures have led to presenting opportunities in the market.
supplier mutualisation processes The value of ROCs generated may be being invoked for ROCs.
lower than forecast if the recycle value outturns are below BEIS projections due to higher than anticipated renewable generation.
TRANSACTION RISKS Context A detailed integration plan has been NEW This risk was not included in developed.
Performance against the business the previous annual report as We need to ensure that the integration case and key integration milestones will be of the assets newly acquired from the acquisition completed on ScottishPower runs smoothly and tracked by management and reported 31 December 2018. efficiently.
In addition, contracted regularly to the Board and Audit Committee.
The Group has agreed a risk-sharing capacity payments make up a mechanism with the vendor Iberdrola S. A., significant portion of the earnings of the ScottishPower assets but UK Capacity which will activate in the event the Group Market payments and auctions are does not receive 100% of the contracted Capacity Market payments for the acquired suspended following the ruling by assets.
The value of any further payment is the European Court of Justice.
Full details of the risk Risk and impact sharing mechanism are set out on the We may face difficulty in consolidating Groups website at www.
and integrating the assets into our procedures and systems.
The UK Government has confirmed that the The assets may fail to meet our Capacity Market ruling does not change its expectations.
belief that Capacity Market auctions are The status of the UK Capacity Market the most appropriate way to deliver secure is uncertain.
UK Capacity Market electricity supplies at the lowest cost.
The UK payments and auctions are currently Government also noted that the Capacity suspended.
Market ruling was decided on procedural grounds and did not constitute a direct challenge to the design of the Capacity Market mechanism itself.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 49
