Principal risks Supporting effective planning and quality decision-making At DS Smith we believe that robust risk management drives better commercial decisions, contributes to our strong growth and provides a platform for all our businesses to become more resilient and sustainable.
2017 was a year where external risks increased and our internal Risk heat map risks required careful attention.
Despite this we identied a The results of our risk assessment process is presented below.
number of opportunities, including in north America, where our disciplined approach in balancing the right risks against identied Consider alternatives Re-evaluate opportunities enabled us to remain on our strategic path.
The continued uncertainty around the UKs exit from the EU and geo-political tensions generally, when set against the Groups risk tolerance levels, meant that we continued to be selective with our investments.
We are however still confident that the underlying fundamentals of our markets reflect sustainable growth and we 2 expect this to outweigh much of the near-term global uncertainty.
Post-acquisition integration Our geographical footprint and the cross section of cultures in which we operate broadened during the year.
While we 6 recognised the potential for disrupting the consistency of 3 DSSmiths oerings, we also saw that significant value could 10 be gained by harnessing this diversity to help strengthen our 12 7 approach across all our markets.
Understanding the right cultural signals has been a key component in how we manage and integrate 5 9 1 our internal supply chain and businesses.
We continue to listen, 8 4 11 learn and adapt our Day One conferences and cultural awareness programmes.
We are pleased with the results achieved to date, Monitor Maintain Progress ensuring that our processes retain integrity and responsiveness, Net opportunity impact and promote recognition whilst maintaining consistently high quality as we grow.
1 7 Acquisition strategy Changes in shopping habits 2 8 Eurozone and Talent barriers We are satisfied with the way our acquisition processes 9 macro-economics Digital vulnerabilities 3 Paper supply 10 Fibre technology have embedded risk assessments into the fabric of our due 4 Capital markets and liquidity 11 Sustainability diligence processes.
Our work undertaken during the acquisition 5 Market consolidation 12 Strategic process change of Interstate Resources provided us with growing confidence 6 Governance that our procedures in this key strategy area remained robust and appropriate.
Internal processes Internally, we have added resources to strengthen our Principal risks governance teams and invested in them to create a stronger The details of our principal risks and uncertainties and the key compliance and risk framework to ensure there is both appropriate mitigating activities put in place to address them can be found and rigorous management of this increasingly important part of on pages 42 to 45.
We disclose those risks we believe may our business.
have the greatest impact on our Corporate Plan.
These have been the subject of discussion at Audit Committee meetings Throughout the year we have challenged our businesses during 2017 18 and reflect the importance we place in to improve the quality of risk information provided, whilst managing theserisks.
maintaining a simple and practical approach through our planning process.
We have been particularly pleased with the participation Our Group continues to be exposed to a wide range of political, and detailed discussion held across our Supply Engine and north market and macro-economic risks in addition to those listed in this American businesses regarding the nature and extent of their report.
These other risks are monitored as part of our standard keyrisks.
This has helped to enhance our understanding of our operating processes for any change to ensure that appropriate changing business risk prole, as well as informing us of emerging mitigations are in place as part of regular management reviews.
Improvements in our controls for managing operational Whilst our capacity to influence external risks is often limited, we risks ensured that we both implemented and maintained risk recognise the importance of operating a business model that can resilience across our integrated supply chain.
quickly flex and adapt to a changing environment.
40 Net risk impact Strategic report evolution in the footprint of the Group, which limits the Directors Horizon scanning ability to predict beyond this period reliably.
The Corporate Plan Looking ahead, our external risk landscape will continue to evolve, process is led by the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance but we are of the view that this will create new opportunities for Director and the Head of Strategy, in conjunction with divisional all our businesses.
This year we have seen many of our customers management.
The Board engages with the process through seeking our assistance to help them manage the growing adetailed review at their April Board meeting.
consumer concerns with Blue Planet plastics.
At the same time there is increased recognition by our customers of the positive The nalised Corporate Plan forms the backbone of the Groups benets of our returnable plastic packaging.
In the medium term strategy and a measure against which performance is assessed.
we envisage greater technological disruption in our industry Monthly trading performance is reviewed in the context of including the adoption of alternative uses and sources of bre.
Corporate Plan objectives on a monthly basis by both the These provide both threats and opportunities as we, and others, seniormanagement team and the Board when it meets.
seek to secure competitive advantage and or create new markets Assessment of longer-term viability for our products and services.
In the longer term, social pressures In accordance with the revised 2016 UK Corporate Governance to improve and manage areas of environmental risk can be Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over expected to increase.
a three-year period to 30 April 2021, which is a longer period than Developments in risk management the 12 month outlook required in adopting the going concern basis Our risk management organisation remained largely unchanged of accounting.
The Groups risk policy was reviewed and The three-year time period was considered appropriate given adapted to reflect the growing partnership between our Group thetime scale of the Groups planning and investment cycle, risk and strategy functions.
the evolution of the Group over the last three years, and the We have long believed that well-managed risk-taking activities medium-term nature of our pan-European customer relationships.
form the basis of how we deliver on our Corporate Plan.
Strong risk The Directors confirm that they have performed a robust management drives better commercial decisions and this year we assessment of the principal risks facing the Group as detailed have promoted this in a number of key areas across our packaging on pages 42 to 45, including those that will threaten its business division.
We are pleased with the initial results and expect more model, future performance and solvency or liquidity.
to be achieved as this is embedded in our commercial ventures.
The assessment of the Groups viability considers likely downside Anti-bribery and corruption policy sensitivities including mitigating actions, both individually and The Group has zero tolerance for bribery and corruption in combination.
Downside sensitivities selected are severe but issues and key components of the Groups Code of Conduct plausible scenarios aligned to the principal risks and uncertainties and compliance regime are the specic policies on Bribery and set out on pages 42 to 45 where the realisation of these risks is Corruption, Gifts and Entertainment and its Speak Up!
considered more than remote, taking into account the eectiveness of the Groups risk management and control systems and The Group conducts annual training on bribery and corruption, considering current risk appetite.
The degree of severity applied to aswell as ensuring that this is given promptly to new businesses the sensitivities was based on historical extremes and the Directors joining the Group.
Work around reviewing and limiting the use assessment of plausible movement in assumptions.
Sensitivities ofagents by the businesses is also an increasing area of focus.
considered included a significant increase in input costs, a prolonged 2017 saw the introduction of a twice yearly ethics report to the downturn in paper price, significant adverse foreign exchange Audit Committee, as well as a half yearly Group policy compliance movements, significant drops in Packaging volumes and annually certication for management and those who have a customer or recurring and debt funded spend on bolt-on acquisitions.
supplier facing role in the business.
The Group has significant financial resources including committed Viability statement and uncommitted banking and debt facilities, detailed in note 19.
Context In assessing the Groups viability, the Directors have assumed that The Groups strategy and key dierentiators are detailed on the existing banking and debt facilities will remain in place or pages 2 and 13, and our risk management framework is described mature as intended.
Understanding of our business model, our strategy and our The Directors have also considered mitigating actions available to principal risks is a key element in the assessment of the Groups the Group to respond to the stress scenarios such as restrictions prospects, as well as the formal consideration of viability.
on capital investment, further cost reduction opportunities and The Groups Corporate Plan cycle is the primary annual strategic restricting dividend growth.
The Directors have assumed that and financial planning activity through which the Board assesses these mitigating actions can be applied on a timely basis and at the prospects of the Group.
This comprises preparation of detailed insignicant or no cost.
financial forecasts and objectives for the three-year period Confirmation of viability covered by the Plan, together with a detailed explanation of the Based on the analysis, the Directors have a reasonable key assumptions and considerations embedded in the plan, the expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation most important of which are paper prices, foreign exchange rates and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period and packaging volume growth.
The three-year period was chosen of their assessment.
considering the speed and degree of change possible in the key assumptions influencing the Group, as well as the speed of Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 41 Principal risks continued Gross Net Link to Risk Principal risks impact impact strategy appetite Threats Opportunities Management controls Board reviews To double Our acquisition growth does not support our We could succeed in entering new key We have a diverse acquisition strategy which Updates from the Group Chief Executive 1.
Acquisition our size and pan-European and FMCG customers as they markets and targeting growth areas.
on progress on the acquisition strategy strategy profitability seek to develop a more global supply chain.
were reported at each Board meeting.
Our growth strategy is We continue maintaining a positive track Through the Group Strategy Committee, the paper designed to create better Acquisitions fail to address key areas of record across small and large transactions.
division has clear overseas targeted investments Specic M&A activity reviews were value through economies vulnerability in our integrated business model in key markets and geographies including the US.
held quarterly throughout the year.
of scale and by adding new and in particular do not address security of The Board received detailed updates products and services to our supply through adequate integration.
on the Interstate transaction process.
To double Weak consumer demand may slow down growth Opportunities to reposition our business Management teams continue to lead At each Board meeting the Group Chief 2.
E urozone and macroour size and in the Eurozone France, Germany and Italy.
model outside of our traditional markets.
projects based on cost optimisation and Executive and Group Finance Director economic markets profitability operational efficiency.
presented reviews and forecasts on the Exposure to multiple political Adverse exchange rate positions may create Opportunities to re-adjust sources impact of a macro-economic environment.
and economic factors could unpredictable pressures on pricing for our ofsupply.
We continue to invest in a strategy to address impact consumer disposable key commodities.
any long-term Eurozone currency imbalances by The Board held discussions on the Opportunities to prioritise cost income and or the level of managing impacts of short-term slower-growth potential implications of the UKs exit The UKs exit from the EU might require optimisation and efficiency improvements industrial activity.
unprecedented adjustments to our business across all divisions and Group functions.
model that we may not have foreseen.
To double Our short paper supply strategy may leave the Improving supply chain performance Enhancing the integration approach to all recycled The Board regularly discussed M&A 3.
Paper supply our size and Group over-exposed to the threat of significant by exploring our closed-loop and shortpaper kraft paper across all geographies.
opportunities with a particular focus on Large fluctuations in the profitability commodity price volatility.
security of supply including the positive demand and supply dynamics Considering kraft paper opportunities via further eect of the Interstate Resources and of bre and the economic Unanticipated and prolonged price increases of Accessing additional recycled paper acquisition or commercial contracts with European EcoPack and EcoPaper acquisitions.
consequences of this can specic paper grades sourced externally, which are material outside of the UK.
aect our long-term position required to meet the demands of the packaging The Board considered the evaluation of Improvements in our internal supply Adopting innovations including the use of mixed as a net purchaser of paper division Performance Assurance Consistency existing market supply of kraftliner and of kraft paper from the Riceboro Mill.
paper in our mills, bre mining technologies, and from third party suppliers.
To double Continued uncertainty about how the UKs exit Securing access to suitable sources The Group has access to bank funding from its The Audit Committee regularly reviewed 4.
Capital markets our size and from the EU might be implemented.
of debt capital through eective active Revolving Credit Facility, maturing in May 2020. liquidity schedules, exchange rates, cash and liquidity profitability management of our core banking partners.
Political, economic and Failure to meet funding needs at favourable Additional funding is available from other credit impacts may have debt terms.
Becoming a constituent of the FTSE 100 three-year facilities.
The Group Finance Director regularly an adverse eect on our Index helps us to build greater liquidity updated the Board on finance options, We have extended maturities on our debt by growth nancing.
with institutional and equity investors.
including Euro-nancing arrangements, raising longer dated debt in the bond markets.
and new debt nancing arrangements.
History of successful equity issuance.
To double Our weaker competitive position may decrease sale Exploring a broader footprint for our An organisation structured to actively manage The Group Finance Director provided the 5.
Concentration our size and volumes and margins.
strategic segments for display and heavy duty Board with regular updates on market and and consolidation profitability as well as consulting services.
of markets Competitors may succeed in imitating our Assessing attractiveness of emerging Market consolidation integration model that challenges our supply markets, given their growing populations, Regular review and updates of the global value may create larger and more cycle business model.
economies and increased demand for proposition for target customers.
focused competitors which branded consumer goods.
We may face a perfect storm scenario where Active project management focused on cost would weaken our position customers, suppliers and competitors dominate.
Adoption of new policies and a thorough review The Audit Committee regularly reviewed To delight our Direct intervention due to anti-trust concerns.
Governance of all existing Group policies.
results of the internal control reports.
customers standard of ethics and behaviour well and compliance Cultural dierences in newly acquired businesses Atevery meeting the Board received an above expectations of all stakeholders.
Non-compliance with local Deployment of compliance as a core management may challenge the Groups business ethics.
laws or regulations may standard and structured training across the Group.
Enhanced collaboration with peers and Greater constraints on handling food due damage our corporate stakeholders to monitor the implications Audit Committee received reports on to contamination risk may require significant Engaging external advisers to undertake reputation and subject of change in the regulatory landscape.
changes to product design and manufacturing.
the Group to significant The Board discussed anti-tax evasion financial penalties.
legislation, GDPR and modern slavery.
42 Strategic report Net risk appetite key Risk impact key Acceptable Re-assess Unacceptable Increased Stable Decreased Gross Net Link to Risk Principal risks impact impact strategy appetite Threats Opportunities Management controls Board reviews To double Our acquisition growth does not support our We could succeed in entering new key We have a diverse acquisition strategy which Updates from the Group Chief Executive 1.
com 43 Principal risks continued Gross Net Link to Risk Principal risks impact impact strategy appetite Threats Opportunities Management controls Board reviews Progressing innovation in e-commerce, The Board received a technical innovation To double Our customers may reject our e-commerce Identifying early signs of growth 7.
C hanges in bricks and mortar, digital world and the presentation on specic packaging sectors our size and proposition.
opportunities by actively engaging shopping habits consumers experience.
Our investments in We may not be quick enough to adapt to changes innovative packaging fail Managing front end supply chain services with The Board considered customer shopping inuse of substitute products.
Exploring new opportunities in the to match expected growth packaging business as an alternative FMCG, industrial, heavy duty and display markets.
habits as part of Group Strategy review.
Innovation may not be a sufficient driver to in consumer spending.
traditional single use and recyclable packaging Extending e-commerce skills across the European tobroaden our oering in existing markets.
packaging business and strengthening e-commerce in the US.
To realise the Weaknesses in our organisation fail to drive Developing employee centred mobile Succession planning, international job rotation and The Nomination Committee regularly 8.
Talent barriers potential of innovation, manage change and engage processes through the use of global IT talent pipeline.
reviewed Board succession planning Despite our commitment our people our workforce.
systems to ensure eective use of skills and talent management.
we may fail to retain, engage Managing our critical talent recruitment and resources.
and develop productive We do not harness agile working practices across programme across our packaging academies.
The Group Chief Executive workforce and to develop our internal talent pool.
Attracting young talent through DS Smith updated the Nomination Committee Implementation of DS Smith Management key talent.
Charitable Foundation work and our on senior management and talent Standards enhancing how people are managed partnership with the EY Foundation.
To delight our Our inability to anticipate the shift in consumer Enhancing our e-commerce and digital Improving our awareness programme on security The Board reviewed digital vulnerabilities 9.
Digital vulnerabilities customers buying habits influenced by digital technologies.
as part of the Corporate Plan process.
Inability to integrate our digital printing technology Our inability to adopt technology quickly Adding value by focusing on IT ecoThe IT optimisation programme continued to drive and to protect our key enough to maintain innovative growth for systems and a digital strategy to support improvement in cyber skills and defences.
Cyber-attack hinders the integrity of our business systems.
To double Our inability to adapt to rapid technological changes Enhancing strategic alliances Additional investments in research and The Board regularly discussed the security 10.
Changes in our size and in new bre recovery, bre paper technology or with universities and paper development of bre recovery, pulping, of supply of existing materials as part of fibre technology profitability packaging material technology.
We may fail to exploit major developments in bre usage Our failure to manage a material decline in bre Exploring the use of virgin bre in a Improving the management of maximisation The Board received a presentation or substitution.
quality, and leakage of bre to other applications.
sustainable manner, including production of bre efficiency.
on technical innovation in packaging.
of kraft substitute and kraft top products.
To lead Inability to manage energy demand needs within Implementation of a clean energy strategy Continued disclosure of our sustainability data to The Board received updates on Group 11.
Sustainability the way in our sustainability targets.
Energy from Waste project at Kemsley.
provide visibility and assurance to our stakeholders.
We may under deliver the sustainability required level of transparency, Shift in recycling behaviour and consumer demand Listening to our stakeholders and Further investment to improve management clarity and commitment may hinder our competitive edge.
Ownership of a kraft mill brings new sustainability Internal sustainability KPIs to track measures challenges through forest ownership.
important to our key stakeholders were set.
To double Unanticipated and protracted recovery due to Enhancing the eectiveness of bre and All mills operations based on clearly dened asset The Group Chief Executive and Group 12.
Strategic our size and afailure of our critical business processes.
Finance Director presented the Board with process change profitability regular updates on the progress of the Investments focusing Failure of strategic process change or system Improved project management approach to support function review implementation.
on new energy initiatives implementation failure.
e. g. perfect box may fail to deliver expected returns.
44 Strategic report Net risk appetite key Risk impact key Acceptable Re-assess Unacceptable Increased Stable Decreased Gross Net Link to Risk Principal risks impact impact strategy appetite Threats Opportunities Management controls Board reviews Progressing innovation in e-commerce, The Board received a technical innovation To double Our customers may reject our e-commerce Identifying early signs of growth 7.
