STRATEGIC REPORT RISK Risk management framework easyJet is exposed to a variety of risks which are driven by both internal and external factors.
There are 16 principal risks which are being actively monitored and managed in order to maximise shareholder value.
The plc Board the Board is responsible for risk management and ensuring appropriate mitigating actions are being taken to manage risks effectively.
RISK APPETITE CHANGES IN THE YEAR Risk appetite is the level of risk considered appropriate to Our principal risks and uncertainties continue to evolve over accept in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
As we evolve our strategy in a dynamic industry against riskappetite provides direction and boundaries for balanced, abackdrop of political and economic uncertainty, new risks risk-intelligent decision making, and guides us in ensuring that emerge and we adapt our response activities as our risk our risk response is appropriate for the relevant area.
The following changes in our risk profile appetite statements are subject to ongoing review and can have been approved by the Board.
change for a number of reasons, for example in response to Three of our principal risks have increased since changes in the external environment.
30September2017: RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES Delivery of strategic initiatives Corporate risk management activities are coordinated by Impact of Brexit theRisk and Assurance team, which reports to the Chief Cyber and information security Financial Officer, as well as having a direct line to the Chair ofthe Audit Committee.
The key risk management activities These risks, together with our response plans, are monitored are outlined below: regularly through our governance structure.
Further detail on the context and mitigation for each is detailed on the following pages.
Risks are assessed taking into account the potential impact and likelihood of the risks occurring and the key responses One risk has decreased since 30 September 2017: identified.
The level of risk is compared to the Boards risk Attraction and retention of talent appetite to determine whether the level and nature of the response is appropriate.
This remains a significant risk to the Group and so is still closelymonitored to enable the Group to take advantage The most significant risks from across the Group based ofany opportunities presented, as well as mitigate downside onmateriality, cross-functional impact and or those which riskappropriately.
have common themes across the business are reviewed and prioritised by the relevant members of the Airline This year, we have incorporated our third-party service Management Board AMB.
providers risk into a broader continuity of services risk, These risks, which form the basis of the principal risks and duetothe outsourced nature of our business model and uncertainties detailed in this section, are challenged and thesimilarity in mitigating actions.
validated by the AMB and the Board.
Principal risks are We have identified two new risks during the year: monitored throughout the year by the owners as well as NEW Customer experience a significant increase in the Risk and Assurance team, with specific agenda items disruptionto our operation could negatively impact relating to particular risks driving discussion by both the customer satisfaction and financial performance, AMB and the Board as they arise.
includingthe payment of EU 261 claims.
The Risk and Assurance team also provides regular updates NEW Environmental changes to the climatic conditions to the AMB monthly and the Board as appropriate on maylead to more volatile weather patterns.
More interdependencies and credible aggregation of principal risks.
extremeweather events could affect the reliability of In addition to supporting the AMB and the Board, the Risk easyJets operations, and financial performance could and Assurance team supports the business in its management beadversely affected.
of risks relating to key projects and programmes, specific business risks, third parties, countries and bases.
an analysis of impacts of severe but plausible risk GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENTS scenarios, ensuring that these were consistent with The Groups business activities, together with therisks reviewed by the Board as part of its thefactorslikely to affect its future development, strategyreview: performanceand position are set out in the strategic report.
Taking account of the Groups current position the impact of multiple risks crystallising simultaneously: andprincipal risks, we reviewed the processes and additional mitigating actions that the Group could take assumptions underlying the Going Concern and Viability inextreme circumstances: and Statements set out on page 36. the current borrowing facilities in place and the In particular, we considered: availability of future facilities.
the Groups forecast funding position over the As a result, we were satisfied that the Going Concern nextfiveyears: andViability Statements have been prepared on an appropriate basis.
38 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal RISKS and uncertainties The risks and uncertainties described below are considered, at this point in time, to have the greatest effect on easyJets strategic objectives.
This categorised list is not intended to be exhaustive, and the ordering of the risks is not an indication of exposure.
Whilst easyJet can monitor risks and prepare for adverse scenarios, the ability to affect the core drivers ofmany risks is not within the Groups control: for example adverse weather, pandemics, actsof terrorism, changes in government regulation and macroeconomic issues.
SAFETY FIRST RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION easyJets number one priority is the safety and security of its customers MAJOR SAFETY INCIDENT andpeople.
A major safety incident such as a hull loss could adversely affect easyJets The Safety Committee a committee of the Board provides oversight of the operational and financial performance management of easyJets safety processes and systems.
See pages 76 to 77 and its reputation.
The impact of such an incident The easyJet Safety Board, chaired by the Chief Executive and including the wouldbe heightened if easyJet failed ChiefOperating Officer and AOC Accountable Managers, is responsible for toreact promptly and deal with the directing overall safety policy and governance.
The Safety Board meets every incident effectively.
month to review safety performance.
Functional Safety Action Groups from across the airline are chaired by the appropriate senior manager and are responsible for the identification, evaluation Links to Our Plan and control of safety-related risks.
easyJet operates a Safety Management System using leading software systems 1 2 B C SafetyNet and RiskNet.
These are used to: report incidents and identify hazards: investigate events and take appropriate risk-mitigating actions: collect and analyse safety data enabling potential areas of risk to be projected : and enable learning from easyJet and industry events incidents to be captured and embedded into future risk mitigations.
A Safety Policy is published that promotes the incident reporting process andsupports this safety culture.
easyJet has an emergency response process and performs regular crisis management exercises.
Hull all risks and liabilities insurance including spares is held.
easyJet has an industry-leading fatigue risk management system and has implemented the European Aviation Safety Agency EASA Flight Time .
Links to Our Plan Our Priorities Our Promise Change in Risk Network Data Safe and responsible Always efficient Increase A D 1 4 Loyalty Efficiency On our customers side Forward thinking No change B E 2 5 People In it together Decrease C 3 39 www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT RISK CONTINUED SAFETY FIRST CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION A Security Decision Group, comprising the Chairman of the Board, the Chief SECURITY THREAT OR ATTACK Executive, appropriate members of the AMB and other senior management, Failure to identify or prevent a major determines whether easyJet should continue to operate in countries or areas security-related threat or attack, or affected by security-related incidents or conflict.
reactimmediately and effectively, could adversely affect easyJets reputation and As part of that process the easyJet Security team works to provide the Security its operational and financial performance.
Decision Group with the most timely, credible and reliable information upon which to base operational decisions.
easyJet adheres to all recommendations Such an incident has the potential to and guidelines provided by the authorities.
impact upon easyJets business, regardless of the location or target.
The Director of Safety, Security and Compliance and the Head of Security work with authorities and governments around easyJets network to assess whether The threat of further security-related security measures are effective and compliant with regulatory requirements.
attacks regardless of where they may Asignificant amount of work is carried out with the aim of enhancing: occur may impact the future demand forair travel.
early identification of developing and emerging security risks: the active management of security risks: the methods for reducing the impact of any security-related incident: and Links to Our Plan the Groups security culture and awareness.
1 2 B COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION easyJet maintains a strong focus on each of its competitive advantages.
COMPETITION, CAPACITY AND Thereare initiatives to drive cost control and improve efficiency in targeted INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION areas.
easyJet is also developing commercial and digital enhancements, and easyJets success in the highly competitive continues to invest in its brand.
European short-haul aviation market is built on our key competitive advantages: The Network Development Forum, a cross-functional panel of senior managers, our network, cost base, brand, digital including members of the AMB, approves the allocation of assets around the innovation and efficient and robust network in the context of expected market conditions.
easyJet also aims to capitalstructure.
Failure to retain these have an agile response to any structural changes in market conditions.
advantages could have an adverse Competitor and consolidation activity is monitored in detail by the Network financial impact.
team, enabling strategic decision making on key market positions.
easyJets Excess capacity in our markets may rapid and targeted response to the Air Berlin insolvency demonstrates the arisedue to a decrease in demand success of this approach.
forairtraveland or an acceleration Fleet framework arrangements, together with the Groups leasing policy, , driven for provide easyJet with significant flexibility in respect of scaling the fleet exampleby lowfuel prices.
This could according to business requirements.
have an adverse financial impact.
Industry consolidation could affect the competitive environment in a number ofmarkets.
Whilst also an opportunity, consolidation could result in the loss of market positions relative market share with adverse financial impacts.
easyJets ability to respond quickly to changes in the competitive environment isfundamental to ensuring that profitability issustainable.
Failure to respond quickly could result in adverse market positions orthe inability to capture opportunities togrow the business.
Links to Our Plan 2 4 5 A B E 40 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION Critical systems identified through our Business Resilience Criticality Matrix are CONTINUITY OF SERVICES hostedeither across two data centres, or at third-party provider locations.
Recovery easyJet is dependent on a number arrangements, including failover protocols between the two data centres, are in place ofkey IT systems and processes.
for all locations holding critical systems.
Aloss ofcritical systems or access tofacilities, including the website and An IT Incident Management team is in place to respond rapidly to any unforeseen Operations Control Centre, could lead incidents that may arise.
to significant disruption to operations Continuity arrangements exist for critical IT systems and for loss or denial of access and could have an adverse to critical facilities.
These plans include relocation of staff to alternative locations.
easyJet continues to enhance all elements of resilience activity, and has a easyJet has entered into agreements programme of work with dedicated expertise and a view to adopting a more with third-party service providers integrated model.
forservices covering a significant proportion of its operations and cost There is a defined and centralised procurement process which ensures a competitive base.
Failure to adequately manage androbust selection of suppliers and a supplier relationship management framework third parties may adversely affect covering key principles such as defined ownership and accountability, governance easyJets reputation and its operational and communication.
In addition, a new contracts database and e-sourcing tool have and financial performance.
been introduced during the year, providing additional functionality to improve the procurement and supplier management processes.
In the event of switching strategic suppliers, project management and transition Links to Our Plan plansare agreed, taking into account previous lessons learned to help ensure an acceptable level of performance is maintained.
This was demonstrated by the 1 2 4 B E transition of ground handling at our largest base, Gatwick Airport, from Menzies toDHL during the year.
Where easyJet is affected by industrial action or other service interruption by a key supplier, internal and external resources are deployed to manage this as effectively aspossible.
See the significant network disruption risk outlined on page 43 for furtherdetail.
This year there has been a one percentage point decrease in OTP, driven by an CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE increase in disruption events.
Reliability, including on-time performance OTP, is a key element There has been a significant increase in French Air Traffic Control ATC of the customer experience.
strikescompared to the 2017 financial year, resulting in widespread network disruption.
easyJet, along with other airlines, has made a proactive challenge to the Unreliable operational performance EuropeanCommission to seek to protect overflight rights in France in the event and inability to react to customer ofATCstrikes.
expectations as a result of routine andongoing disruption will negatively There is also continued focus on the EU 261 claims management process which impact customer satisfaction and hasbeen further strengthened during the year by increasing the size of the team financial performance, including the handling legal claims and the introduction of a claims management system.
To provide the appropriate level of focus and oversight of risk response measures, NEW easyJet has initiated a key strategic project, Operational Resilience, and as part of this, all aspects of the operation, schedule and disruption are under review.
This Links to Our Plan includes how we manage customers before, during and after disruption.
The project is prioritising the following themes: 2 4 5 A B D E aircraft and crew standby: Operations Control Centre reporting on the day of operations, including : airport performance and strategic supply chain: and EU 261 management see the significant network disruption risk outlined on page43 for further detail.
Links to Our Plan Our Priorities Our Promise Change in Risk Network Data Safe and responsible Always efficient Increase A D 1 4 Loyalty Efficiency On our customers side Forward thinking No change B E 2 5 People In it together Decrease C 3 41 www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT RISK CONTINUED COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION easyJet takes its environmental and climate change related responsibilities ENVIRONMENTAL seriously and continues to develop its disclosures on this matter to reflect Climate change has the potential to developing legal and regulatory requirements and increased stakeholder interest.
affect easyJets operations and broader business in a number of ways.
easyJet recognises the need to transition to a lower carbon economy and we continue to work towards ensuring that aviation plays its part in achieving this.
In particular, climate change is likely to easyJet was an early advocate for aviation being part of the EU ETS.
lead to more volatile weather, including greater frequency and intensity of easyJets business model supports fuel efficiency and minimising carbon storms.
This could disrupt easyJets emissions, through means such as investment in efficient aircraft, use of fuel operations, such as a reduction in efficiency measures and operating flights with a high load factor.
easyJet is thehandling capacity of airports and ashort-haul operator, which has a lower carbon impact per passenger kilometre loss ofground transport access.
Any than the major European airlines whose operations include a significant amount increase in cancelled or delayed flights oflong-haul flights.
By operating point-to-point flights rather than encouraging would also increase disruption costs customers to transfer, we make customer journeys more efficient.
easyJet started to operate a new generation of Airbus A320 family aircraft in Changes in wind patterns and jet 2017.
These aircraft are 15% more fuel efficient than previous generation aircraft.
streamdisruption as a result of As at 30 September 2018, 13 A320neo aircraft were in operation, with a further climatechange are also recognised 87to be delivered by August 2022.
Two of the larger A321neo aircraft were ashaving the potential to increase alsointhe fleet at this date, with a further 28 to be delivered by October 2020. enroute turbulence.
More volatile weather can have an adverse impact on the customer experience The nature of airline operations means see the customer experience risk outlined on page 41. that easyJet is a significant emitter of Operational efficiency measures include: the continual review of flight plans to greenhouse gases, in particular carbon ensure the optimal routings and cruise levels are used: maximising the use of dioxide.
Aviation is already part of external power, rather than the aircraft auxiliary power unit, when on the ground: theEUs Emissions Trading System use of only one engine when taxiing on the ground: and climb, descent and EUETS, and easyJet expects to be landing techniques that improve efficiency.
part ofthe future global scheme for aviation emissions, CORSIA.
If the In 2013 easyJet established a public target to reduce its carbon emissions per costof carbonpermits in the future passenger kilometre.
The target was strengthened in 2015 and is currently a 10% significantly increases, or the cost of reduction in carbon emissions per passenger kilometre by 2022 from its 2016 more efficient technologies such as financial year performance.
new aircraft significantly increases, In the 2018 financial year easyJets carbon emissions per passenger kilometre easyJet faces amaterial financial risk.
were78.46 grams g. This is a reduction from 78.62g per passenger km in the Future policy measures and regulation prior financial year and down by 1.9% from the 2016 baseline.
to tackle the impact of aviation on By engaging with key stakeholders, easyJets Regulatory Affairs Group seeks climate change could impact easyJets toreach a common understanding on the drive to impose policy measures business if they impose limitations and andregulation to address the impact of aviation on climate change.
The group cost on how easyJet operates and co-ordinates easyJets role in influencing future and existing policy and regulations theservices it can provide.
Linked to which affect the airline industry and will work with industry bodies to assist in this, this, increased compliance costs and as appropriate.
The group includes Country Directors and senior representation anycosts associated with potential from Legal, Regulatory, Fleet, Airport and Public Affairs teams.
distortions to the aviation market could affect easyJet.
NEW Links to Our Plan 1 2 3 4 5 E 42 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION There are processes in place, and clear roles and responsibilities within SIGNIFICANT NETWORK teamsacross the business, to plan for and manage significant disruption.
DISRUPTION  Disruption team brought together to manage both Widespread, sustained disruption to expectedand on-the-day unexpected disruption events and to determine easyJets network could be caused by andinitiate the required action.
The Business Disruption team includes senior asingle event or factors which occur for managers from relevant business areas, including the Operations Control Centre aprolonged period.
Examples include and Customer Services.
forces of nature such as extreme weather or volcanic ash, terrorism, air Board policy is to maintain a liquidity buffer which allows the Group to better traffic management restrictions, strikes, manage the impact of downturns in business or temporary curtailment of epidemics pandemics, or the closure of activities see the financial risk outlined on page 44. a key airport runway.
In addition, easyJet holds business interruption insurance which provides some Significant, sustained disruption to the cover for very significant shock events such as extreme weather, air traffic network could adversely affect easyJets management issues and loss of access to key airports.
The policy would allow reputation and its operational and usto claim in the event of a very substantial number of cancellations.
Links to Our Plan 2 A B The Board considers that the efficiencies achieved by operating a single fleet type SINGLE FLEET SUPPLIER outweigh the risks associated with easyJets single fleet strategy.
easyJet is dependent on Airbus as its sole supplier for aircraft.
The Airbus A320 family which includes the A319, A320 and A321 is one of the two primary fleets used for short-haul travel, the other being the Boeing B737 There are significant cost and efficiency family.
There are approximately 8,000 A320 family aircraft operating, with a advantages of a single fleet: however proven track record for safety and reliability.
there are three main associated risks: The introduction of the A320neo in part mitigates this risk as theaircraft is supply chain issues which may equipped with a different engine type.
Airbus has already delivered 13 A320neos cause delay to the delivery of to easyJet as at 30 September 2018 and two A321neos, with a total of 130 aircraft newaircraft: with the new engine option scheduled to be in the fleet by the end of 2022. technical or mechanical issues that could ground the full fleet, or part easyJet continues to work closely with Airbus to ensure full visibility of the delivery ofthe fleet, which could cause a schedule for new aircraft.
In the event that there are material delays appropriate negative reputational impact: and mitigation is put in place: for example short-term wet lease arrangements are used to minimise any operational impact.
valuation risks which crystallise when aircraft exit the fleet.
The main easyJet operates a rigorous established aircraft maintenance programme.
exposure at this time is with the Maintenance schedules are designed in line with manufacturer recommendations older A319 fleet, as easyJet is reliant and approved by the relevant regulatory body the Civil Aviation Authority, on the future demand for secondAustroControl or the Federal Office of Civil Aviation.
To mitigate any potential valuation risks, easyJet regularly reviews the secondhand market and has a number of different options when looking at fleet exit strategies.
Sale and leaseback facilitates the exit of aircraft from the fleet by Links to Our Plan transferring residual value risk, and also provides flexibility in managing the fleet size.
In December 2016, 10 A319 aircraft were sold, and a further 10 A319 aircraft 1 4 A B E inOctober to November 2017, under sale and leaseback arrangements.
Links to Our Plan Our Priorities Our Promise Change in Risk Network Data Safe and responsible Always efficient Increase A D 1 4 Loyalty Efficiency On our customers side Forward thinking No change B E 2 5 People In it together Decrease C 3 43 www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT RISK CONTINUED FINANCIAL RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION A project management framework, which sets out approval processes, DELIVERY OF STRATEGIC governance requirements, key ongoing processes and controls, is followed by INITIATIVES allprojects and programmes, and reviews are undertaken to ensure continuous The business continues to undertake improvement in this approach.
anumber of initiatives to support itsstrategy.
Each strategic initiative has an executive sponsor from the AMB and its own steering group which provides oversight and challenge to the project, monitors Ongoing strategic initiatives include: progress against programme objectives and ensures that decisions are made at rewarding and recognising our the appropriate level.
These key strategic initiatives are managed by experienced customers loyalty: programme managers, complemented by appropriate subject matter specialist transforming our Holidays business: resource where appropriate.
creating a compelling business offer: A Project Management Office is in place to oversee delivery of projects and investing in resilience to manage programmes, including the allocation of support resource, budget tracking and disruption more effectively: and realisation of benefits.
With an increase in the number of strategic initiatives, the becoming the most data-driven AMB has approved additional headcount for the 2019 financial year to strengthen airline in the world.
both the portfolio and programme management capability.
These complex, large-scale programmes The AMB meets twice monthly.
The executive sponsor provides routine updates have been initiated and are managed and can use this as an escalation channel for any issue resolution.
The Board also through the Project Management Office.
receives updates on key strategic initiatives including any risks or issues associated with their delivery.
Failure to successfully execute these initiatives in a timely manner, or to In addition, our Internal Audit function provides independent programme deliver the planned business benefits assurance over our most significant initiatives, drawing upon independent subject and or cost savings, could result in matter expertise where appropriate.
Links to Our Plan 3 4 5 B C D E The Finance Committee a committee of the Board oversees the Groups FINANCIAL RISK treasury and funding policies and activities.
easyJet is exposed to a variety of financial risks which could give rise to adverse See page 85 for further details.
pressure on the financial performance Its responsibilities include: of the Group, such as costs, revenue and cash flow.
These include: maintaining a treasury policy setting out Board-approved strategies for foreign exchange and fuel hedging, along with liquidity, interest rate management, market risk significant sudden and counterparties limits: and increases in jet fuel prices, currency fluctuations or interest rate changes reviewing and reporting on compliance with Board treasury policies.
which have not been adequately The policy is to hedge revenue and costs within a percentage band for a rolling protected through hedging: 24-month period.
counterparty risk non-performance Board policy is to maintain a liquidity buffer including cash, revolving credit of counterparties used for depositing facilities provided by a group of relationship banks and business interruption surplus funds for example money insurance cover.
This allows the Group to better manage the impact of downturns market funds, bank deposits and in business or temporary curtailment of activities.
The policy is to maintain a hedging: and minimum liquidity buffer at or above 2.6 million per 100 seats.
liquidity risk misjudgement of the A strong balance sheet supports the business through fluctuations in economic level of liquidity required, resulting in conditions and the Group has access to diverse sources of funding to support inability to meet contractual liquidity requirements.
contingent financial obligations or the inability to fund the business when needed.
Links to Our Plan 4 5 E 44 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PEOPLE RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION easyJet has a comprehensive recruitment strategy for all employees including ATTRACTION AND RETENTION head office, engineering, pilots and cabin crew.
In addition, easyJet has developed OF TALENT a coherent employment brand to attract and retain top talent across Europe.
easyJets current and future success is easyJet continually improves talent acquisition methods to ensure we stay ahead reliant on having the right people with of the market.
In the year, we have attracted talent at all levels of the business, the right capabilities at the right time.
including enhancing the AMB see pages 64 to 66.
Increased competition in the easyJet has created a strategy which utilises the apprenticeship levy to build recruitment market may impact future capabilities.
This year we took on 14 engineering apprentices, as well as easyJets ability to attract and retain broadening our offering of apprenticeships by opening up opportunities within our key, as well as diverse, talent.
This cabin crew, Operations Control Centre, leadership and people management roles.
couldadversely affect the delivery ofstrategic objectives.
A focus this year has been on the development of a strategy to increase the diversity of our employee population to ensure it reflects that of our customer base.
This builds on the existing Amy Johnson initiative, which aims to attract more female pilots.
Links to Our Plan easyJet aims to develop talent from within.
There are a range of talent 3 5 C development programmes in place for individuals who have been identified for fast-tracking into broader or more senior roles.
Alongside this, there is an annual succession planning process to ensure there are clear successors for all AMB andkey business leadership roles and associated risks are proactively managed.
See pages 53 to 54 for further details of how easyJet attracts, retains and develops a diverse workforce.
easyJet conducts annual salary benchmarking to ensure remuneration is competitive across all markets and levels.
In 2018, easyJet launched a new employee listening platform called Peakon.
Dataand feedback from this platform will provide us with regular insight on levelsof engagement within critical talent populations, enabling us to take action where required.
One of the themes arising from the Peakon trial has resulted inthe launch of Project Home a suite of investment initiatives to enhance our headoffice environment into a more engaging and inspiring place for employees to perform at their best.
Each of the European countries in which easyJet operates has localised INDUSTRIAL ACTION employment terms and conditions.
As such its pilots and crew are members of easyJet, and the aviation industry 20trade unions across eight countries.
There are also an additional 11 consultative ingeneral, has a significant number bodies, including five works councils and a European Works Council, that operate ofemployees who are members of under EU legislative guidance.
Industrial action taken byeasyJet employees could impact easyJet seeks to maintain positive working relationships with all trade unions and oneasyJets ability to maintain its other representative bodies and has a framework in place for consulting and flightschedules.
engaging with trade unions and consultative bodies.
This could adversely affect easyJets In the event of industrial action or expected disruption, easyJet has processes reputation, as well as its operational tomitigate the impact to our operations.
The Operations team also has specific andfinancial performance.
procedures to deal with such events see the significant network disruption risk outlined on page 43.
Links to Our Plan 2 3 B C Links to Our Plan Our Priorities Our Promise Change in Risk Network Data Safe and responsible Always efficient Increase A D 1 4 Loyalty Efficiency On our customers side Forward thinking No change B E 2 5 People In it together Decrease C 3 45 www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT RISK CONTINUED REGULATORY AND LEGAL RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION easyJet has established a cross-functional Brexit programme which has IMPACT OF BREXIT implemented a structured approach to the identification and management of easyJet has made or is in the process allrisks related to Brexit.
offinalising the changes needed to itsoperating model to ensure that it The programme has already made changes to the current operating model and isas robust as possible to any Brexit operating licences to protect our flying rights, regardless of the outcome of the outcome, including the set-up of the national negotiations.
Austrian AOC and new UK AOC.
easyJets focus is now on the management of risks associated with the outcome However, the outcome of the Brexit of the negotiations around the Withdrawal Agreement.
If a deal is agreed and negotiations remains unknown and ratified between the UK Government and EU27, a transition arrangement will could impact easyJet.
beput in place until at least December 2020 effectively removing any impact on This has the potential to impact our ouroperation.
existing safety approvals, pilot licensing If the outcome of the negotiations results in no deal and the UK leaves the EU arrangements, ownership model, without a Withdrawal Agreement in place, both the UK and EU have made it Grouptax profile, engineering and clearin their notices of no deal preparation that they will ensure that connectivity maintenance supply chain, and makeup is maintained between the EU and the UK through what the EU has called a bare of our crew establishment.
easyJet is finalising its Brexit preparations to ensure Brexit could, at the most extreme, lead that its network is robust to a no deal outcome and the UK being outside both to a halt to flying between the EU and thesingle market and EASA.
These include: the UK, although not only do we think the transfer of all relevant pilot and cabin crew for EU27 crew from the this highly unlikely but if this were to UKtoEU27 countries, in particular Austria: occur we think it would only last for ashort period of time.
However, this being ready to implement EU27 based safety approvals for example for outcome would have both revenue anEASA Part 145, the training organisation to ensure these are in place to andcost impacts, and could also support easyJet Europe our Austrian operating airline after Brexit: leadtoa deterioration of consumer further investment in the recruitment of EU27 nationality pilots and confidence resulting in longer term cabincrew: financial underperformance.
the preparation of mitigating actions to ensure easyJet remains EU majority owned and controlled: reviewing our engineering and maintenance supply chains and supplier Links to Our Plan readiness, making changes where required to our spare part stock levels 1 2 5 A C andlocations to mitigate the risk of customs arrangements being put in place between the UK and the EU and any restriction on the use of UKlicensed parts on Austrian registered aircraft: and ensuring easyJets systems and contract structure is robust to a nodealoutcome.
Putting these mitigating actions in place will ensure easyJet can continue to operate its network in the event of a no deal Brexit.
In a more extreme scenario, and in the unlikely event that there is no bare-bonesagreement, approximately 40% of the easyJet programme flyingbetween UK and EU would be at risk.
We have conducted stress testingin this scenario which included benchmarking of our balance sheet andthis showed we have significant resilience to this outcome.
This analysis hasbeen presented to the Board.
Seats for the post-Brexit period went on sale in September 2018 and there wererecord breaking sales.
This indicates that currently, consumer confidence post-Brexit is holding strong.
However, easyJet closely monitors revenue performance including weekly review meetings involving senior managers including members of the AMB, to ensure appropriate tactical actions are taken in response to any identified trends.
46 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 REGULATORY AND LEGAL CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION easyJet has an in-house team of legal experts to advise on legal issues and REGULATORY AND LEGAL developments, and to monitor compliance with formal regulatory requirements.
COMPLIANCE Where appropriate, this expertise is supplemented by specialist external support The airline industry is heavily relevant to a specific area or jurisdiction.
regulatedand there is a continual needto keep well informed and This panel of external legal advisers, both in the UK and in key easyJet markets, adapt as required toany legislative isbriefed to keep easyJet informed of any changes to, or new, legislation and to orregulatory changesacross the assist easyJet in developing appropriate responses to such legislation.
This may jurisdictions in whicheasyJet operates.
include activities such as the implementation of mandatory training programmes, or clear policies and associated guidance.
Changes to government policy and or increased regulation could have an The Regulatory Affairs Group coordinates easyJets role in influencing future and adverse effect on easyJet.
existing policy and regulations which affect the airline industry and works with industry bodies, as appropriate.
The group includes Country Directors and senior Failure to comply with legislative representatives from the Legal, Regulatory, Fleet, Airport and Public Affairs teams.
andregulatory requirements, such as local consumer laws, new case law or With the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR having become EU law policy changes in relation to customer on25 May 2018, easyJet has a Data Protection Officer DPO and Data Privacy compensation, environmental or team in place, reporting to the Company Secretary & Group General Counsel.
airportregulation, in the jurisdictions Keydeliverables have been achieved for high-risk processing activities during the inwhich easyJet operates, could year and there is an ongoing programme for the 2019 financial year.
havean adverse reputational and financial impact.
Links to Our Plan 1 2 2 5 B Links to Our Plan Our Priorities Our Promise Change in Risk Network Data Safe and responsible Always efficient Increase A D 1 4 Loyalty Efficiency On our customers side Forward thinking No change B E 2 5 People In it together Decrease C 3 47 www.
com RISK CONTINUED REPUTATIONAL RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT AND MITIGATION The Information Security Steering Group is a subset of the AMB, chaired CYBER AND INFORMATION bythe Company Secretary & Group General Counsel.
It oversees any SECURITY developments or changes in the threat landscape, and determines whether A breach of our systems by internal or actions taken in response are appropriate.
This group provides senior support external threats could lead to financial loss, to business initiatives to drive continuous adaption and improvement.
aircraft incident, operational disruption, and or reputational damage.
There is a dedicated Information Security team, comprised of experienced professionals, which continuously monitors threats and responds to incidents Unauthorised access to customer or to minimise exposure and impact.
In the year there has been a review, refresh employee data could lead to financial, and re-communication of a number of key policies and standards.
regulatory or legal damage, and or loss of customer or employee trust.
easyJet has a strong programme of communication and engagement tomaintain employee awareness and education.
This is achieved throughanetwork of champions, online training materials, and periodic Links to Our Plan awarenesscampaigns.
easyJet is coming to the end of an initial three-year Information Security 1 2 5 B C D Remediation Programme, during which some projects have been, and continue to be, audited.
This has resulted in additional proposed projects forthe 2019 financial year to improve the effectiveness of controls.
As part of easyJets GDPR programme, key deliverables have been achievedfor high-risk processing activities.
There is an ongoing programme for the 2019 financial year to ensure changes are fully embedded into ways of working see the regulatory and legal compliance risk outlined on page 47. easyJet continues to work closely with industry partners, such as Airbus, tomanage the cyber risks associated with aircraft.
In the year, there was a presentation to, and discussion with, the Board by Airbus on these risks andmitigations.
However, the nature of this risk and the ever-increasing sophistication of attacks by serious organised crime groups, terrorists, nation states and even lone parties means that, despite all the mitigation detailed above, easyJet will inevitably retain an element of vulnerability.
easyJet has an active shareholder engagement programme led by its Investor MAJOR SHAREHOLDER Relations team.
As part of that programme easyJet engages with easyGroup AND BRAND OWNER Holdings Limited on a regular basis alongside its other major shareholders.
RELATIONSHIP easyJet has two major shareholders In addition, the Group has a relationship agreement with easyGroup and Polys easyGroup Holdings Limited and Polys Holdings in line with the controlling shareholder regime set out in the Financial Holdings Limited which, as a concert Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
party, control approximately 33% of its Representatives from the Board and senior management take collective ordinary shares.
responsibility for addressing issues arising from any activist approach adopted Shareholder activism on their part could by the major shareholder.
The objective is to address issues when they arise adversely impact the reputation of easyJet and anticipate and plan for potential future activism.
and cause a distraction to management.
The brand licence agreement with easyGroup provides for the regular easyJet does not own its company name or meeting of senior representatives from both sides, attended by the Chief branding, which is licensed from easyGroup Financial Officer and the Company Secretary & Group General Counsel, to Ltd.
The licence includes certain minimum actively manage brand-related issues as they arise.
Such meetings occur on service levels that easyJet must meet in aquarterly basis and have proved effective.
easyJet also monitors compliance order to retain the right to use the name with brand licence service levels and has a right to take steps to remedy any and brand.
The easyJet brand could also be instance of non-compliance.
impacted through the actions of easyGroup or other easyGroup licensees.
Links to Our Plan 3 5 B 48 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
