Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued No contract or arrangement subsisted during the period in operations and investment trust industry matters.
All which any of the Directors was materially interested.
The Directors are entitled to receive appropriate and relevant Board monitors on a regular basis the direct and indirect training.
There is a procedure for a Director to take interests of each Director and has concluded that there independent professional advice, if necessary, at the were no situations which gave rise to an interest of a Companys expense.
Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company.
The Board adopts a zero-tolerance approach to Remuneration Committee bribery and corruption and has implemented appropriate The Remuneration Committee, which comprises Iain procedures designed to prevent bribery.
McLaren and Allan McKenzie, is responsible for determining the level of Directors fees, having taken It it is the Companys policy to conduct all of its business in external advice.
The terms of reference are available on an honest and ethical manner.
The Board takes a zerorequest and on the Companys website.
Further tolerance approach to facilitation of tax evasion, whether information may be found in the Directors Remuneration under UK law or under the law of any foreign country.
Performance Evaluation Internal Control and Risk Management An appraisal of each Director, including the Chairman, and The Board is responsible for the Companys system of of the operation of the Board and its Committees, was internal control and has reviewed the effectiveness of the undertaken during the year.
The Chairmans performance Companys risk management and internal control systems.
assessment was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing and robust The Board also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors process for identifying, evaluating and managing the other commitments.
The Board is satisfied that each significant risks faced by the Company which include Directors performance continues to be effective, and that financial, operational, compliance and reputational risks.
each remains fully committed to the Company.
Under the Management Agreement, the management of Succession Planning the Companys assets has been delegated to the Manager within overall guidelines.
Risks are identified and In line with the Companys strong commitment to its documented through a risk management framework by corporate governance responsibilities, the Board regularly each function within the Managers activities.
The internal reviews its performance and structure to ensure it has the control systems operated by the Manager are monitored correct mix of relevant skills, diversity and experience for and supported by an internal audit function which the effective conduct of the Companys business to undertakes periodic examination of business processes, complement the existing composition of the Board whilst including compliance with the terms of the management having due regard for the benefits of diversity, including agreement, and ensures that recommendations to gender, on the Board.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and timetables are New Board appointments are identified against the agreed for implementing improvements to systems.
The requirements of the Companys business and the need to implementation of any remedial action required is have a balanced Board and are routinely facilitated by an monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
external recruitment firm to ensure that a wide range of candidates can be considered.
Following a review of its This process has been in place for the year under review composition and, taking into account, succession plans, and up to the date of approval of this annual report and the Board appointed an independent external search accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords consultant, Fletcher Jones, to identify potential candidates with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on for the Board which resulted in the appointment of Mr Will Internal Controls.
In addition, the Board has adopted its own risk matrix The Board has implemented the provisions of the UK Code which identifies the key risks for the Company and covers whereby all Directors of the Company will stand for restrategy, investment management, operations, regulatory election on an annual basis.
The Board has reviewed the and financial obligations and third party service providers.
skills and experience of each Director, and supports their A monitoring system is undertaken whereby the controls re-election.
to mitigate these risks, and the impact of the residual risks, are assessed on a regular basis.
Details of the New Directors are given appropriate induction from the principal risks faced by the Company are provided in Manager covering legal responsibilities, the Managers Overview of Strategy on pages 8 to 9.
30 Annual Report 2018 The key components designed to provide effective internal three times a year and considers reports from the external control are outlined below: auditor and the Managers risk management functions, including internal audit and compliance.
The terms of The Manager prepares forecasts and management reference of the Committee, which are available on accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys request and on the Companys website, are reviewed and activities and review its performance: the emphasis is on re-assessed on an annual basis.
The main responsibilities obtaining the relevant degree of assurance and not of the Committee are: merely reporting by exception: The Board and the Manager have agreed clearly defined to review the half yearly and annual financial statements investment criteria, specified levels of authority and of the Company, the accounting policies applied therein exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including and to ensure compliance with financial and regulatory performance statistics and investment valuations, are reporting requirements.
regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings to assess whether the annual report and accounts, taken with the Manager as appropriate: as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and As a matter of course, the Managers risk management provide the information necessary for shareholders to department, including compliance and internal audit assess the Companys position and performance, functions, continually reviews the Managers operations.
Written agreements are in place, which specifically define to meet with the external auditor to review their the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other proposed audit programme of work and the findings of third party service providers: the auditor.
The Committee also uses this as an The Board has considered the need for an internal audit opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the audit function but, because of the compliance and internal process.
control systems in place within the Manager, has decided to develop and implement policy on the engagement of to place reliance on the Managers risk management the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
systems and internal audit procedures: and to make recommendations to the Board in relation to The Audit Committee carried out bi-annual reviews of the appointment of the external auditor and to approve the Managers risk management and internal controls, the remuneration and terms of engagement of the including the internal audit and compliance functions.
its October 2018 meeting, the Audit Committee to monitor and review annually the external auditors performed its annual assessment of internal controls for independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and the year ended 31 August 2018 and taking account of qualification.
The results of the to review and monitor the internal control systems and assessment were reported to the Board.
risk management systems including non financial risks on which the Company is reliant.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the to consider annually whether there is a need for the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is Company to have its own internal audit function.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are to review the arrangements in place within the Manager designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance or other matters whistleblowing.
against material misstatement or loss.
Significant Accounting Issues Audit Committee Report The significant accounting issue considered by the Committee during the year in relation to the Company's Membership and Responsibilities financial statements was the valuation, existence and The members of the Audit Committee the Committee ownership of investments.
All investments are in quoted are Mr McLaren Chairman, Mr McKenzie and Mr securities in active markets, are considered to be liquid Maynard who are all deemed to be independent.
As Mr and have been categorised as Level 1 within the FRS 102 McKenzie is considered to be independent and there are fair value hierarchy.
The investments are valued using no conflicts of interest, the Board considers it appropriate independent pricing sources, in accordance with the for Mr McKenzie to be a member of the Committee.
The portfolio holdings are members of the Committee have qualified as chartered reviewed and verified by the Manager on a regular basis accountants and the Committee is satisfied that it has the and existence is verified through custodian reconciliations.
necessary recent and relevant financial experience and The Committee reviews reports from the Manager to competence relevant to the investment trust sector in ensure that internal controls over the Companys order to fulfil its responsibilities.
The Committee meets Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 31 Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued investments are adequate.
The audit includes Going Concern independent confirmation of the existence of all Shareholders will be given the opportunity to vote on the investments from the Companys depositary and the continuation of the Company at the next Annual General valuation of investments to external price sources.
As referred to, and for the reasons set on in the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Other Accounting Issues recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the The Companys compliance with investment trust status, continuation vote.
under section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, is monitored by the Manager on an ongoing basis and The Companys assets consist substantially of equity reported to the Committee.
shares in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges and in normal circumstances are realisable within a short Review of Auditor timescale.
The Committee has reviewed the independence and the effectiveness of the external auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, Having regard to the matters referred to above, inclusive as follows: of the discussion regarding the continuation vote included in the Chairman's Statement, and after due consideration, The external auditor reports on an annual basis the the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to steps it takes to ensure its independence and objectivity adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the and confirms that it has complied with the relevant UK financial statements, and they consider that the Company independence guidelines.
The level of fees for non-audit has adequate resources to continue in operational services provided by the auditor is assessed and for the existence for the foreseeable future.
year to 31 August 2018 were 4,800 2017 - 4,660 which related to the review of the half yearly report.
The Management Engagement Committee Board will review any future non-audit fees in the light of A separate Management Engagement Committee, which the requirement to maintain the auditors independence.
was established during the financial year and comprises The Committee considers the experience, continuity and all the Directors, reviews the performance of the Manager tenure of the external audit team, including the audit and its compliance with the management agreement.
The audit team consists of suitably experienced The terms of reference, which are available on request staff with knowledge of the investment trust sector and and on the Companys website, are reviewed on an annual there is a process in place for the rotation of the audit basis.
The Committee keeps the resources of the partner.
Manager under constant review, conducts an annual The Committee assesses the level of audit service review of the terms and conditions of the management annually.
agreement Agreement and undertakes an evaluation of the Managers performance under this Agreement.
In The audit plan is reviewed well in advance and subsequent monitoring the performance of the Manager, the Board audit findings are reported comprehensively in a timely reviews the investment performance, management manner and are resolved satisfactorily.
The auditor has a processes, risk control mechanisms and promotional constructive working relationship with both the Board and activities of the Manager.
As a result of these reviews, the Board concluded that the Under company law, listed companies are required to Manager has the investment management, promotional, tender the external audit every 10 years.
Under secretarial and administrative skills required for the transitional arrangements, KPMG will be required to effective operation of the Company although the resign as auditor after completion of the audit for the year performance of the Manager remains under close review.
ended 31 August 2020 and accordingly the Committee will The Board believes that the Manager has satisfactorily met undertake an audit tender process prior to that date.
the terms of the management agreement with the KPMG has held office as auditor for over 25 years and the Company, and considers that the continuing appointment Committee is satisfied that KPMG remains independent of the Manager is in the interests of the Company and its and effective.
The audit partner is rotated at least every shareholders.
five years, in accordance with professional guidelines.
The current audit partner from KPMG was appointed for the Relations with Shareholders 2017 year end audit.
The Directors place great importance on communication with shareholders.
Besides shareholders, the report and accounts are widely distributed to other parties who have 32 Annual Report 2018 an interest in the Companys performance.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Company through the Managers freephone information service, and the Company responds to letters from shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Companys annual and half-yearly reports and other publications can be downloaded from the Companys website, www.
The Boards policy is to communicate directly with shareholders and their representative bodies without the involvement of the management group either the Company Secretary or the Manager in situations where direct communication is required.
The Chairman meets with representatives of the major shareholders during the financial year on an annual basis in order to gauge their views.
The Manager maintains regular contact with institutional shareholders and feeds back shareholder views to the Board.
It is the intention of the Board that, in the ordinary course, the notice of the Annual General Meeting included within the annual report and accounts is normally sent out at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
All Directors intend to be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and shareholders are encouraged to attend.
Proxy voting figures for each resolution are announced to the meeting after voting on a show of hands.
UK Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting as an Institutional Shareholder Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of portfolio companies has been delegated by the Board to the AIFM which has sub-delegated that authority to the Investment Manager.
The full text of the Companys response to the Stewardship Code may be found on the Companys website.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Directors, through the Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investing.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in both areas.
The Managers ultimate objective, however, is to deliver superior investment return for their clients.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which pursue best practice in these areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
