Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Business Model Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and Standard Life plc on 14 August 2017.
The business model of the Company is to operate as an investment trust for UK capital gains tax purposes in line Achieving the Investment Policy and Objective with its investment objective.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted its affairs for the The Directors are responsible for determining the year ended 31 August 2018 so as to enable it to comply investment policy and the investment objective of the with the relevant eligibility conditions for investment trust Company.
Day-to-day management of the Companys status as defined by Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax assets has been delegated to the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager follows a bottom-up investment process based on a disciplined evaluation of companies Investment Policy through direct contact by its fund managers.
Stock The Companys assets are invested in a diversified selection is the major source of added value.
No stock is portfolio of securities in quoted companies spread across bought without the Investment Manager having first met management.
The Investment Manager evaluates a a range of industries and economies in the Asia Pacific companys worth in two stages: quality then price.
Quality region, excluding Japan and Australasia.
The shares that is defined by reference to management, business focus, make up the portfolio are selected from companies that the balance sheet and corporate governance.
Price is have proven management and whose shares are evaluated by reference to key financial ratios, the market, considered to be attractively priced.
The Company invests the peer group and business prospects.
Stock selection is in a diversified range of sectors and countries.
key in constructing a diversified portfolio of companies.
Investments are not limited as to market capitalisation, The Investment Manager is authorised to invest up to 15% sector or country weightings within the region.
of the Companys gross assets in any single stock, calculated at the time an investment is made.
The Companys policy is to invest no more than 15% of gross assets in other listed investment companies A detailed description of the investment process and risk including listed investment trusts.
controls employed by the Investment Manager is disclosed on page 64.
The Company complies with Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trust A comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio by Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011 and does not country and by sector is disclosed on pages 17 to 22, invest more than 15% of its assets in the shares of any one including a description of the ten largest investments, the company.
full investment portfolio by value and sector geographical analysis.
At 31 August 2018, the Companys portfolio When appropriate the Company will utilise gearing to maximise long-term returns, subject to a maximum consisted of 72 holdings.
gearing level of 20% of net assets imposed by the Board.
Gearing is used to leverage the Companys portfolio in The Company does not currently utilise derivatives but order to enhance returns when this is considered keeps this under review.
At 31 August 2018, the Companys net gearing was 2.2%.
Company Benchmark Principal Risks and Uncertainties MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index sterling adjusted.
There are a number of risks which, if realised, could have a Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM material adverse effect on the Company and its financial position, performance and prospects.
The Board has The AIFM is Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited AFML or identified and undertaken a robust review of the principal the Manager which is authorised and regulated by the risks and uncertainties facing the Company in the table Financial Conduct Authority.
opposite and the appropriate mitigating action.
The principal risks associated with an investment in the The Company's portfolio is managed on a day-to-day basis Companys shares are published monthly on the by Aberdeen Standard Investments Asia Limited ASI Companys factsheet or they can be found in the preAsia or the Investment Manager by way of a delegation investment disclosure document published by the agreement.
ASI Asia changed its name from Aberdeen Manager, both of which are on the Companys website.
Asset Management Asia Limited on 3 September 2018.
ASI Further details on the internal control environment can be Asia and AFML are both wholly owned subsidiaries of found in the Statement of Corporate Governance.
Standard Life Aberdeen plc, formed by the merger of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 7 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy continued Risk Mitigating Action Investment PerformanceThe Companys investment performance is The Board continually monitors the investment the most critical factor to the Companys long term success.
Sustained performance of the Company, taking account underperformance may result in reduced demand for the Companys of stockmarket factors, and reviews the shares.
Companys performance compared to its benchmark index and peer group.
In addition to its own due diligence, the Board uses consultants to provide an independent perspective on the Managers process and performance.
Concentration Risk - Trading volumes in certain securities of emerging The Board reviews, on a regular basis, the markets can be low.
The Investment Manager may accumulate Managers total holdings for each stock within investment positions across all its managed funds that represent a the Companys portfolio and the liquidity of significant multiple of the normal trading volumes of an investment these stocks.
which may result in a lack of liquidity and price volatility.
Accordingly, the Company will not necessarily be able to realise, within a short period of time, an illiquid investment and any such realisation that may be achieved may be at considerably lower prices than the Companys valuation of that investment for the purpose of calculating the net asset value NAV per Ordinary share.
Resource - The Company is an investment trust and has no employees.
The Board reviews the performance of the The responsibility for the provision of investment management, Manager on a regular basis and their marketing and administration services for the Company has been compliance with the management contract delegated to the AIFM, Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited, under the formally on an annual basis.
As part of that management agreement.
The terms of the management agreement review, the Board assesses the Managers cover the necessary duties and conditions expected of the Manager.
As succession plans, risk management framework a result, the Company is dependent on the performance of the AIFM.
Gearing - As at 31 August 2018 the Company had 25.5 million of bank In order to manage the level of gearing, the borrowings.
Gearing has the effect of exacerbating market falls and Board has set a maximum gearing ratio of 20% gains.
of net assets and receives regular updates from the Manager on the actual gearing levels the Company has reached together with the assets and liabilities of the Company and reviews these at each Board meeting.
Regulatory - The Company operates in a complex regulatory The Audit Committee monitors compliance environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
Serious breaches with regulations by reviewing internal control of regulations, such as the tax rules for investment companies, the reports from the Manager, AIC updates and UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act, could lead to a number of reports from the Company Secretary.
detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
The Directors do not anticipate any significant adverse effect on the Company arising from Brexit.
Discount Volatility - The Companys share price can trade at a discount The Board monitors the discount level of the to its underlying net asset value.
Companys shares and has in place a buyback mechanism whereby the Manager is authorised to buy back shares within certain limits.
8 Annual Report 2018 Reliance on Third Party Service ProvidersThe Company has entered The Board reviews the performance of third party into a number of contracts with third party providers including share providers on an annual basis.
The Manager registrar and depositary services.
Failure by any service provider to monitors the quality of services provided through carry out its contractual obligations could have a detrimental impact regular reports and due diligence reviews.
Third on the Company operations.
party service providers report periodically on their internal controls which includes confirmation of their business continuity arrangements and procedures to address cyber-crime.
Further details on other risks relating to the Companys investment activities, including market price, liquidity and foreign currency risks are provided in note 16 to the financial statements.
Performance Key Performance Indicators At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators KPIs are established industry measures, and are as follows: KPI Description Net asset value and share The Board monitors the NAV and share price performance of the Company over price total return different time periods.
Performance figures for one, three and five years are provided in the Results section.
Performance against Performance is measured against the Companys benchmark, the MSCI All Country Asia benchmark ex Japan Index in sterling terms.
The Board also considers peer group comparative performance over a range of time periods, taking into consideration the differing investment policies and objectives employed by those companies.
Discount Premium to net The discount premium relative to the NAV represented by the share price is closely asset value monitored by the Board.
The objective is to avoid large fluctuations in the discount relative to similar investment companies investing in the region by the use of share buy backs subject to market conditions.
A graph showing the share price discount relative to the NAV is shown on page 12.
Further analysis of the above KPIs is provided in the Chairmans Statement.
Promoting the Company Board Diversity The Board recognises the importance of promoting the The Boards statement on diversity is set out in the Company and believes an effective way to achieve this is Statement of Corporate Governance.
At 31 August 2018 through subscription to, and participation in, the there were four male Directors and one female Director.
promotional and investor relations programme run by the Subsequent to the year end, a male director was Manager on behalf of a number of investment trusts appointed to the Board on 1 October 2018. under its management.
The purpose of the programme is both to communicate effectively with existing Environmental, Social and Human Rights Issues shareholders and to gain new shareholders with the aim The Company has no employees and therefore no of improving liquidity and enhancing the value and rating disclosures are required to be made in respect of of the Companys shares.
contribution to the programme is matched by the Manager and regular reports are provided to the Board on The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report promotional activities as well as an analysis of the nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions shareholder register.
More information on socially Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 9 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy continued responsible investment is set out in the Statement of Taking into account all of these factors, the Companys Corporate Governance.
current position and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company, the Board Viability Statement has concluded that it has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and In accordance with the provisions of the Listing Rules and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period UK Corporate Governance Code the Board has assessed of this assessment to 31 August 2023. the viability of the Company.
The Company is a long-term investor and the Board believes it is appropriate to assess Allan McKenzie the Companys viability over a five year horizon which Chairman reflects the Investment Managers long-term approach.
The Directors believe this period reflects a proper balance 1 November 2018 between the long term horizon and the inherent uncertainties of looking to the future.
The Directors have taken account of the requirement to put forward a continuation resolution at the 2018 AGM and the renewal of the Companys borrowings in January 2019.
In assessing the viability of the Company the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the following factors: the principal risks set out in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 9 and the steps available to mitigate these risks: the liquidity and diversity in both sector and geography of the Companys investment portfolio: the demand for the Companys shares as evidenced by the level of discount at which the shares trade: the level of gearing and revenue surplus generated by the Company.
The Company has the ability to renew or repay its gearing: and the feed-back following consultation with major shareholders on the continuation of the Company and the proposed Tender offer.
When considering the risk of under-performance, the Board reviewed the impact of stress testing on the portfolio, including the effects of any substantial future falls in investment values.
The Board has also had regard to matters such as significant economic or stock market volatility, a substantial reduction in the liquidity of the portfolio or changes in investor sentiment, all of which could have an impact on the Companys prospects and viability in the future.
The results of the stress tests have given the Board comfort over the viability of the Company.
