GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Remuneration Remuneration element Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics element Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Restricted To encourage and Annual share awards will be made in 87.5% of salary Although no formal Chairman To attract and retain Ordinarily, the Chairman and nonThe fee levels are N A Share Plan enable substantial the form of conditional share awards performance measures and non-executive executive directors remuneration takes reviewed periodically RSP long-term share or nil-cost options.
The awards will be apply to any awards nondirectors of the the form solely of fees.
The Chairmans taking into account the ownership and to subject to a performance underpin under the RSP, the extent executive right calibre.
fee is approved by the Board on the time commitment and reflect our ethos described in the column headed to which a tranche of directors recommendation of the Committee.
responsibilities of the role of long-term performance metrics.
An award will an award vests may be fees Fees for the non-executive directors and fees paid in other stewardship.
vest in three equal tranches following reduced by the Committee are approved by the Board, on the companies of comparable the assessment of the relevant if a performance underpin recommendation of the Chairman and size and complexity.
performance underpin, which will be assessed to the end of the the executive directors.
The Chairman assessed following the end of a period financial year preceding and non-executive directors may of no less than three years as regards the date of vesting is not be eligible to be reimbursed for any the first tranche, no less than four years achieved.
reasonable hotel and travel expenses as regards the second tranche and no and other reasonable expenses incurred In addition, the Committee less than five years as regards the third in performance of their duties.
may reduce the extent tranche.
to which a tranche vests The non-executive directors are not The first and second tranches of an if it believes this better involved in any discussion or decisions award will be subject to a holding reflects the underlying about their own remuneration.
period which begins on the relevant performance of the Additional fees, over and above vesting date and lasts until the vesting Company over the relevant the base fee for the non-executive date of the third tranche: no holding period.
directors, are payable to the Chairman period will apply to the third tranche of the Audit and Remuneration of an award.
The holding period will be Committees and to the Senior structured as either 1 the award not Independent Director.
being released, so that the participant is able to acquire the shares, until the end of the holding period: or 2 the participant being able to acquire shares Notes to the policy table following vesting but that, other than as regards the sale of shares to cover tax Recovery provisions malus and clawback liabilities associated with the vesting or acquisition, the award is not released, Annual bonus so that shares can be dealt with, until RSP Any annual bonus paid in cash may be recovered from the the end of the holding period.
A tranche of an award under the RSP may be cancelled if shares participant clawback for a period of three years from the date have not been delivered to satisfy it or recovered from a participant on which the bonus is determined in the event of material If a holding period is structured on the if shares have been delivered up to the second anniversary misstatement of results, a material error in the information or basis that the participant is unable to of vesting in the event of a material misstatement of results, a assumptions on which the award was granted, vests or is released acquire shares until its end, dividend material error in the information or assumptions on which the award equivalents in cash or shares may be including an error in assessing any underpin, a material failure of was granted, vests or is released including an error in assessing paid on vested shares in respect of risk management, serious reputational damage, misconduct by the any underpin, a material failure of risk management, serious dividends that would have been paid on participant or material corporate failure as determined by the Board.
reputational damage, misconduct by the participant or material those shares between vesting and the corporate failure as determined by the Board.
date on which the award is released.
Deferred Share Awards may be cancelled or recovered from the The dividend equivalents may assume participant at any time prior to the third anniversary of the award Operation of share plans the reinvestment of dividends into date in the circumstances referred to above.
shares on such basis as the Committee The Committee will operate its current and legacy share plans in determines.
Share awards may be made in the form of conditional share awards, options including nil cost options Recovery provisions apply, as referred or forfeitable share awards.
Awards granted over shares may be to below.
In the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, special dividend or other event which, in the Committees opinion may affect the price of shares, the Committee may alter the terms of awards under its share plans and the number of shares subject to those awards in accordance with the terms of the relevant plan.
64 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 65 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report For these purposes, shares including, where relevant, shares Choice of performance measures Illustration of application of remuneration policy subject to share plan awards are valued at 165.60pbeing the The annual bonus is based on a mix of financial and individual The following charts provide an illustration, for each of the executive directors, of the application for the year ending 30 September closing share price on 28 September 2018, the last day of trading strategic targets, with measures based on the financial, operational 2019 of the policy.
The charts show the split of the remuneration between fixed pay that is base salary, benefits and employer pension in the financial year preceding the financial year in which this policy and strategic priorities of the business which may vary from year to contributions salary supplement, annual bonus and RSP on the basis of minimum remuneration, remuneration receivable for performance comes into effect.
Shares which count towards the guidelines year as appropriate to reflect the changing needs of the business.
in line with Ei Groups expectations and maximum remuneration not allowing for any share price appreciation or dividends dividend with effect from after that date will be valued at the date on A sliding scale of targets is set for the financial measures so as to equivalents that may be received on the share awards.
which they begin to count towards the guidelines.
Subsequent drive significant improvements in business performance.
Following changes in the share price will not affect the value of shares for the determination of the bonus by reference to the targets for the the purposes of the guidelines, so that an increase in the share Simon Townsend Neil Smith relevant financial year, the proportion deferred into a Deferred Share price will not, of itself, permit a disposal and a fall in the share price Award is not subject to any further performance condition.
will not, of itself, require a further acquisition.
However, if a share 2,000 1,600 price decrease means that the value of shares is less than the Awards under the RSP are not subject to formal performance 1,800 guideline requirement the Committee will take this into account in 1,717,000 1,424,000 measures, but vesting is dependent upon performance underpins.
1,400 determining whether shares acquired pursuant to share plans can 1,600 For each element of the underpin a clearly defined and, where 26% 26% be sold.
1,200 relevant, quantifiable threshold will be set at the point of grant.
1,404,000 1,166,000 1,400 The elements of the underpin and any applicable threshold will be 1,000 Shareholding guidelines post-cessation 1,200 determined on an annual basis taking into account the Committees 31% 31% Departing executive directors will be required to retain shares assessment of the metrics which will best reflect overall business 1,000 800 36% 36% following the date of cessation.
The required holding will be 50% of health over the applicable vesting periods.
The underpins applying for 800 22% 22% the guideline that applied at the date of cessation or if lower, the 600 654,000 546,000 the RSP awards to be granted in respect of the Companys financial actual holding excluding personal investment, reducing to nil over a 600 year ending on 30 September 2019 are set out on page 81.
400 100% 47% 100% 47% 38% 38% The Committee may vary any performance measure or RSP 200 Shares subject to LTIP, RSP and Deferred Share Awards which are 200 underpin if an event occurs which causes it to determine that it no longer subject to performance conditions will count towards would be appropriate to do so, provided that any such variation 0 0 the guidelines on a net of assumed tax basis.
If the post-cessation Minimum Performance Maximum Minimum Performance Maximum is fair and reasonable and in the opinion of the Committee the performance in line with performance performance in line with performance guideline is not adhered to, outstanding unvested share awards change would not make the measure or underpin less demanding.
expectation expectation granted after 1 October 2018 may lapse at the discretion of the If the Committee were to make such a variation, an explanation Fixed pay Annual bonus RSP Fixed pay Annual bonus RSP Committee.
would be given in the next remuneration report.
Interaction with the policy for employee pay SAYE options and awards under the SIP are not subject to performance conditions in line with the treatment of such awards for There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration all employees and in accordance with the applicable tax legislation.
policy for the executive directors as set out above compared In illustrating the potential reward, the following assumptions have been made.
with that for other employees within the organisation.
This reflects Shareholding guidelines differing levels of seniority and responsibility.
For example, there Fixed pay Annual bonus RSP is an increased emphasis on variable pay for executive directors Shareholding guidelines during employment Base salary being the rate of Minimum performance No bonus.
through a higher annual bonus opportunity and participation in To align the interests of executive directors with those of salary proposed to apply with the RSP.
This aligns the interests of directors with the long-term shareholders, the Committee has adopted formal shareholding Performance in line with Bonus equal to 62.5% of RSP vests in full equal to 87.5% of salary.
effect from 1 January 2019, performance of the Company and the interests of shareholders.
Executive directors are required to retain half of any expectations salary is earned.
500,000 for Simon Townsend shares acquired under the Deferred Share Awards, LTIP and RSP and 413,000 for Neil Smith, Maximum performance Bonus equal to 125% of salary RSP vests in full equal to 87.5% of salary.
net of tax until such time as their holding has a value equal to employer pension contributions is earned.
300% of salary for the CEO, 200% of salary for the CFO and 150% at an assumed rate of 25% for any other executive director.
on that salary, and benefits as disclosed in the single figure table Shares subject to LTIP awards and RSP awards which have vested on page 70 for the year ended but not been released that is which are in a holding period or 30 September 2018. which have been released but have not been exercised and shares These charts reflect the RSP.
Existing LTIP awards may continue to vest, subject to the satisfaction of the applicable performance subject to any Deferred Share Award count towards the guidelines conditions and the other terms of the LTIP.
on a net of assumed tax basis.
66 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 67 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 Total remuneration Total remuneration GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report The executive directors can also participate in all-employee share the Company will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is Where appropriate the Company may enable the provision of Approach to recruitment and promotions schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The value that warranted in each individual case and where appropriate, the outplacement services to a departing director and make payments The remuneration package for a new executive director will typically may be received under these schemes is subject to limits specified Company will seek to apply the principles of mitigation to any in respect of accrued holiday and legal fees.
be set in accordance with the Companys approved remuneration in the relevant tax legislation.
For simplicity, the value that may be proposed payment: policy, subject to the discretions below.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments received from participating in these schemes has been excluded there is no entitlement to bonus following notice of termination where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an from the above charts.
or cessation of employment and bad leavers will not receive The salary level for a new appointment will be set taking into existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such any bonus in such circumstances.
However, the Committees account the individuals experience, the nature of the role being an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim Service contracts normal policy is that where the individual is considered a good offered and their existing remuneration package.
Pension will only arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or leaver, a performance-related bonus may be paid which would be provided in line with the approved remuneration policy.
It is the Companys policy that, ordinarily, the period of notice for employment.
executive directors will not exceed 12 months and accordingly, the typically be prorated for time.
The performance measures used The maximum level of variable remuneration that may be granted to determine the bonus payment may be on a different basis employment contracts of the executive directors are terminable on Where a buyout or other award is made outside the Companys in connection with recruitment excluding any buyout award as 12 months notice by either party.
The Company may terminate a to that applying to the other executive directors depending on existing share plans as referred to below, the leaver provisions referred to below will ordinarily be in line with the Companys the timing and circumstances of the directors departure.
Time directors employment without notice or compensation in the event would be determined at the time of the award.
approved directors remuneration policy i. e. an RSP award over of gross misconduct.
prorating will usually be based on the proportion of the bonus shares with a value of up to 87.5% of salary and an annual bonus year for which the individual is employed and the bonus if any Change of control of up to 125% of salary.
Alternatively, the Committee may grant will usually be paid at the normal time, although the Committee Payments for loss of office In the event of a change of control of the Company or other a newly recruited executive director variable remuneration of up retains discretion to pay it earlier in appropriate circumstances.
In the event of a directors departure, the Companys policy on relevant corporate event, unvested share awards under the RSP to 275% of salary excluding any buyout award consisting of a If at the time the bonus is paid, the individual is under notice or termination payments is as follows: and Deferred Share Awards will usually vest.
In the case of any performance based long-term incentive award over shares with a has left employment, all of the bonus may be payable in cash: the Company will pay any amounts it is required to in unvested tranche of an RSP award, the number of shares in respect value of up to 150% of salary and an annual bonus of up to 125% and accordance with or in settlement of a directors statutory of which the tranche vests shall be determined by the Committee of salary.
in the event of a directors departure, any outstanding share employment rights: taking into account whether it is appropriate to reduce vesting awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan If an executive director is appointed at a time in the year when it to reflect the extent to which the underpin is not satisfied at the the Company may pay salary, benefits and pension in lieu of rules, as follows: date of the relevant event, or the extent to which the Committee would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or RSP award for that notice and observe the other contractual entitlements of a year, subject to the limit on variable remuneration, the quantum in determines it would have been satisfied at the end of the ordinary director: assessment period, and, unless the Committee determines respect of months employed during the year may be transferred to a subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and otherwise, the proportion of the period over which the underpin is assessed that has elapsed at the date of the relevant event.
Plan Treatment on cessation Any tranche of an RSP award which has vested but which remains If a participant ceases employment while holding an unvested tranche of an RSP award, it will ordinarily lapse.
RSP In relation to RSP and bonus awards, different performance targets subject to a holding period will be released in full.
Deferred Share However, if the participant ceases employment due to death, disability, ill-health, the sale of his employer out of the underpin measures, performance assessment periods, vesting Awards shall vest in respect of all of the shares subject to them.
Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, the unvested tranche will continue and vest following periods and holding periods may be set to those applying to the the end of the ordinary vesting period, subject to the application of the underpin in the ordinary way and, unless other executive directors in the first year of appointment, if the Awards under the Companys all-employee share plans will vest the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the period over which the underpin is assessed that has early in the event of a change of control of the Company, in Committee determines that the circumstances of the appointment elapsed at the date of the relevant event.
The unvested tranche will ordinarily be released following the end of the merit such alteration.
accordance with the rules of those plans.
The Committee has discretion to vest and release any unvested tranche at cessation or to release any unvested tranche as soon as it vests.
In addition, the Committee may offer further cash, benefits and Awards under the Companys legacy share plans including the Companys 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan shall vest and or be or sharebased elements including awards under Listing Rule If a participant ceases employment while holding a tranche of an RSP award which is subject to a holding period, it will 9.4.
2 R as necessary to secure an appointment and or buyout released to the extent determined in accordance with the applicable ordinarily continue and be released following the end of the holding period.
The Committee has discretion to release plan rules, after the application of any discretion available to the remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous the tranche at cessation.
However, if a participant ceases employment due to dismissal for misconduct during the employer any such payments would take account of the Committee under the rules.
holding period applying to a tranche, that tranche will lapse.
remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer, for The contracts of the executive directors do not provide for any example, reflecting the nature, time horizons and performance Deferred Share Awards will ordinarily lapse on cessation of employment if cessation is before the third anniversary of the date of grant.
enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the Awards requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be However, in some circumstances such as death, injury, retirement at the discretion of the Committee, sale of the Company or for liquidated damages.
informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
employer out of the Group and any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into account If a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event is proposed the individuals performance and reasons for their departure, good leaver status may be applied.
In the case of a For an internal appointment, any variable pay or benefit element which, in the opinion of the Committee would affect the price good leaver unvested Deferred Share Awards will vest in full on the originally anticipated vesting date, unless the granted in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out or be Committee determines they should vest in full on cessation.
of shares in the Company, the Committee may permit awards provided according to its terms.
under the RSP, Deferred Share Awards and any awards under the All-employee share Awards will vest in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan, which do not permit the exercise of any discretion Relocation expenses or allowances may be paid as appropriate.
Companys legacy share plans to vest early in whole or in part.
plans SAYE and SIP by the Committee.
Fees payable to a newly appointed Chairman or non-executive Legacy share plans Awards under the Companys legacy share plans including the Companys 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan shall vest director will be in line with the policy in place at the time of and or be released to the extent determined in accordance with the applicable plan rules, after the application of any appointment.
discretion available to the Committee under the rules.
68 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 69 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Chairman and non-executive directors Additional disclosures in respect Annual bonus 2018 where the terms of the payment were agreed before the of the single figure table All non-executive directors have letters of appointment, the Awards under the plan are subject to demanding performance remuneration policy came into effect: and terms of which take into account best practice.
For the year under review, the bonus was structured Salaries and fees appointments continue on an annual basis from AGM to AGM, as follows: where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when Details of annual base salaries for executive directors are set out subject to re-election.
There are no special provisions in the nonthe relevant individual was not a director of the Company 80% of salary subject to a sliding scale of challenging underlying below: executive directors letters of appointment for compensation in the and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not basic EPS targets: event of loss of office.
A summary of the letters of appointment in consideration of the individual becoming a director of the 20% of salary subject to challenging individual personal and Salaries from Salaries from for non-executive directors is set out within the annual report on Company.
1 January 1 January strategic targets: and remuneration.
2018 2017 Increase % For these purposes, payments includes the satisfaction of variable 50% of salary was based on and linked to key milestones in the Simon Townsend 490,000 482,000 1.7% delivery of the 2020 strategy.
remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of Legacy arrangements Neil Smith 405,000 393,000 3.1% the payment are agreed no later than the time the award is granted.
The Committee reserves the right to make remuneration payments Any bonus earned in respect of the latter two elements can only be and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not Details of Chairman and non-executive directors fees are set out Any such payment shall include the satisfaction of any awards paid if a threshold level of underlying EPS performance is delivered.
below: in line with the policy set out above and to exercise any discretion granted under the Companys 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan and available to it in relation to any such payment: Executive directors are required to defer 50% of any bonus any other legacy share plan.
Fees from earned over target into shares for a period of three years with the 1 January remainder paid in cash executive directors can choose voluntarily to 2018 defer more of the award into shares if they so wish and have both Chairmans fee 214,000 done so.
Basic fee paid to all non-executive directors 59,500 Supplementary fees: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION EPS targets Senior Independent Director 6,500 The underlying EPS targets for the bonus plan were set at the The following information has been subject to audit: Remuneration Committee Chairman 6,500 beginning of the year and reflected the outlook at that time taking This annual report on remuneration sets out how the Companys remuneration policy for directors approved at the 2016 AGM was Audit Committee Chairman 6,500 into account the Companys plans to generate cash and pay implemented during the year under review.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 down debt.
and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended and 9.8.
8R The Committees approach to the Chairmans and non-executive of the Listing Rules.
An advisory resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The information on directors fees for the year ending 30 September 2019 is The targets and vesting level for the proportion of the bonus based pages 70 to 79 as indicated has been audited.
summarised on page 81. on EPS are set out in the table below.
For performance between the EPS targets specified, vesting on a straightline sliding scale applies.
Remuneration outcomes during 2018 The single figure table below sets out the remuneration received receivable in relation to the year ended 30 September 2018: Award level % weighted annual salary Underlying EPS iii iv Base salary Taxable Pension Annual bonus Long-term SIP matching Total i ii v Below threshold 0% Less than 20.5p fees benefits incentives shares Name Target 40% 21.0p 000 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Executive directors Maximum 80% 21.6p Actual performance 53.3% 21.2p Simon Townsend 488 480 29 29 122 120 421 473 754 55 2 2 1,816 1,159 Neil Smith 402 392 30 29 101 98 351 390 615 45 1,499 954 Total 890 872 59 58 223 218 772 863 1,369 100 2 2 3,315 2,113 Chairman and non-executive directors Robert Walker 213 210 213 210 vi David Maloney 46 65 46 65 Peter Baguley 66 65 66 65 Adam Fowle 65 59 65 59 Marisa Cassoni 66 60 66 60 vii Jane Bednall 15 15 Total 471 459 471 459 i Base salary fees this is the salary or fees in respect of the relevant period.
ii Taxable benefits this includes car allowances or use of a motor car, fuel, private medical, travel, accident and legal expenses insurances.
iii Pension this represents the salary supplements in lieu of directors pension contributions.
iv Annual bonus this is the value of the bonus earned in respect of the financial year, including any amount deferred into shares.
v Long-term incentives this is the value of any long-term incentives vesting where the performance period ended in the relevant period calculated as described below.
vi David Maloney retired from the Board on 5 July 2018. vii Jane Bednall was appointed to the Board on 2 July 2018.
70 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 71 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Personal Neil Smith Each executive director was given a number of different personal and strategic objectives individually tailored to their role and the needs Actual performance Performance of the business in the year now under review.
Different weightings were applied to each objective.
The achievements against objectives Performance metric delivered assessment Bonus earned % of salary were considered carefully by the Committee and weightings given to each individual component.
The precise objectives are considered by the Company to be commercially sensitive and, accordingly, are not disclosed.
The Committee agreed that on a combined assessment Personal and strategic Business performance Improved KPIs and Group Above target of performance the executives achieved well above target.
Target would deliver 50% of the maximum 10% of salary and the final agreed measures up to 20% Challenge the operating cash flow.
Delivered cost bonus for this element for each director is set out below: of salary business to deliver efficiency budget.
continual improvement in KPIs, drive cost efficiency Simon Townsend culture and maximise Actual performance Performance excess cash flow for Performance metric delivered assessment Bonus earned % of salary shareholder returns Personal and strategic Business performance Compliance report Above target Strategic deployment Led the development of Above target measures up to 20% Management of and issued to office of Pubs of assets decision making process of salary compliance with the Pubs Code Adjudicator, no Refine processes to though risk weightings Code and mitigation of non-compliance issues.
deliver best returns and chaired investment impact of MRO Delivery of transition of panel to ensure best assets to mitigate risks 18% capital spend.
while managing earnings and like-for-like net Balance sheet Completed consent Above target income growth.
Further develop and solicitation, RCF execute restructuring extension, unsecured transactions to reduce bond issuance, tender Succession planning Comprehensive Above target restraints and repurchase of Develop clear plans programme of planning, convertible bond.
across the Group around sustainable leadership evolving business needs review and development IT strategy Completed deployment Above target proposals completed in 17% Implement revised of strategic the year.
strategy to support recommendations and efficient deployment post implementation Culture and values Delivered leadership Above target of the wider business review.
Embed leadership priorities without strategy behaviours across the undermining Group Bonuses earned by reference to the personal and strategic measures are based on a qualitative assessment by the Committee of performance against the Group to successfully values.
manage change Delivery of the 2020 strategy Stakeholder relations Monetisation strategy Above target The additional element of the annual bonus with an opportunity of up to 50% of salary for both executive directors was based on strategic Reframe the investment comprehensively milestones aligned to the delivery of the 2020 strategy and the growth and quality in the number of sites in the categories below.
The thesis for the Group communicated to investors Committee considered the delivery by the executives across all elements of the strategic milestones in assessing the overall level of and further articulation of performance and the bonus attributable.
The Committee agreed that on a combined assessment of performance the executives had Group options subsequent achieved 16% of the maximum opportunity for this element of 50% of salary, and the final agreed bonus for this element was 16% for to refinancing events.
This outcome reflected a slower pace of transfer of assets into our managed businesses.
Bonuses earned by reference to the personal and strategic measures are based on a qualitative assessment by the Committee of performance against the Combined relevant measures.
assessment of 2018 strategic milestones Threshold Maximum Actual performance Commercial properties and average rental growth 380 430 412 Craft Union 275 290 254 16% Bermondsey 60 66 54 Managed Investments partnerships 10 15 12 Managed Investment sites 64 70 47 Adjusted for disposal 72 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 73 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Overall bonuses earned LTIP awards vesting in respect of performance in the year ended 30 September 2018 The total bonuses earned as a percentage of salary for the year out of a maximum bonus potential of 150% of average weighted salary The LTIP awards granted on 12 February 2016 vested in respect of the performance year ended 30 September 2018.
The awards were were as follows: subject to three performance measures, relative Total Shareholder Return TSR against the FTSE 250 Index as regard to 50% of the award, Return on Capital Employed ROCE as regards to 18% of the award and Free Cash Flow FCF as regards to 32% of award.
The Bonus Bonus performance outcome and consequent vesting was as follows: earned in Total % earned in Strategic 2018 of 2018 2017 EPS Personal milestones % of salary opportunity % of salary TSR ROCE FCF Simon Townsend 53.3% 17% 16% 86.3% 57.5% 98.5% Pay-out Pay-out Pay-out Target % of max Target % of max Target % of max Neil Smith 53.3% 18% 16% 87.3% 58.2% 99.5% Threshold Median 10% Budget 0.25% 5% 330m 5% Half of any bonus earned above 75% of salary the bonus earned for target performance is deferred into shares.
The executive directors Stretch Upper quartile 35% Budget 1.0% 18% 345m 18% may choose to defer a greater proportion of the bonus.
Simon Townsend and Neil Smith have both deferred all of the bonus earned above Additional stretch Upper quintile 50% N A 18% 360m 32% 75% of salary equivalent to 11.3% of Simon Townsends weighted average salary and 12.3% of Neil Smiths weighted average salary.
Outcome Between median 23.0% Budget 0% 357m 29.3% and upper quartile 2016 and 2017 strategic milestones threshold and maximum targets disclosure Total vesting % of max 52.3% delivery of the 2020 strategy Vesting was also subject to the Committees assessment of the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance As disclosed in our 2016 and 2017 Directors remuneration reports we committed to disclose the threshold and maximum levels for the period.
The Committee considered the underlying financial performance and concluded that performance supported the vesting level, strategic milestones within two years from the date the bonus is paid, when the information is no longer commercially sensitive.
The which it therefore confirmed.
Committee have determined that the information is no longer commercially sensitive and has disclosed the threshold and maximum levels for the strategic milestones below, alongside actual performance.
In the single figure table, the value attributable to the LTIP awards vesting in respect of performance in the year ended 30 September 2018 is calculated by reference to a share price of 173.80p, being the closing share price on 19 November 2018, the date on which the awards vested.
Combined assessment of 2016 strategic milestones Threshold Maximum Actual performance LTIP awards vesting in respect of the year ended 30 September 2017 Commercial properties and average rental growth 300 350 311 The LTIP awards granted on 9 February 2015 were subject to a relative TSR performance measure TSR performance measured against Craft Union 50 80 71 the FTSE 250 Index as regards 70% of the award and a ROCE performance measure as regards 30% of the award, and a general financial 27.5% underpin.
As the performance measures were assessed over the period ended 30 September 2017, their value at vesting should be Bermondsey 20 36 28 included in the single figure table for that year.
Whilst previously omitted, in the single figure table on page 70, the 2017 long-term incentive Managed Investments partnerships 1 8 5 value has now been updated to reflect final vesting outcome of 26.9% as described below and a share price of 128.25p being the market Managed Investment sites 3 15 8 value of a share on the date of vesting.
Combined TSR ROCE assessment of Pay-out Pay-out 2017 strategic milestones Threshold Maximum Actual performance Target % of max Target % of max Commercial Properties and average rental growth 375 430 349 Threshold Median 17.5% 7.583% 7.5% Craft Union 150 190 178 Maximum Upper quartile 70% 8.333% 30% Bermondsey 40 56 48 21.5% Outcome Below median 7.602% 8.1% Managed Investments partnerships 6 14 9 Total vesting % of max 8.1% Managed Investment sites 26 40 30 LTIP awards made during the year ended 30 September 2018 Adjusted for Commercial Properties sold in the year.
Awards were granted to the executive directors on 9 February 2018 on the following basis: Face value % of award Types of Number of at grant vesting at i award shares 000 threshold Performance period Simon Townsend Nil cost option 829,285 1,047 20% 1 October 2017 under the LTIP 30 September 2020 Neil Smith Nil cost option 676,822 854 20% 1 October 2017 under the LTIP 30 September 2020 i For these purposes, the face value of the award is calculated by multiplying the number of shares by 126.20p, which was the value of a share at the date of grant.
74 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
