Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Group statement of cash flows Year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note $000 $000 Note $000 $000 Operating activities Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 220,550 1,081 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax 85,292 25,407 Cash and cash equivalents: Loss from discontinued operations before tax 1,403 At beginning of the period 15,692 17,586 Profit loss before taxation 85,292 24,004 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 16,420 813 Adjustments to reconcile profit loss before taxation to net cash provided by operating activities: Total cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 17 219,822 15,692 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 34,087 17,808 Supplemental cash flow information: Amortisation of intangible assets 15 171 200 Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment 14 1,344 For the year ended 31 December Impairment loss on intangible assets 15 6,663 2018 2017 Impairment loss on inventory 8e 992 Note $000 $000 Gain from disposal on property, plant and equipment 6 Non-cash investing and financing activities Gain from disposal of subsidiary 8e 1,540 Investment in oil and gas assets against liabilities 14 199,262 15,739 Decrease increase in provisions 6,757 8,748 Loan capitalisation and issuance of preference shares 21 230,761 Finance income 10 1,735 14 Capitalisation of depreciation to oil and gas properties 14 2,574 2,388 Finance costs 10 13,471 22,940 Capitalised borrowing costs 14, 15 9,258 1,258 Fair value gain on derivative 27.2 96,709 25,786 Share-based payment charge 26 1,570 Net foreign exchange gain loss 10 23,521 36,243 Cash flow from operations before working capital adjustments 53,897 18,124 Increase decrease in inventories 1,807 4,985 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 10,741 11,168 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 3,562 17,157 Cash flow from operations 59,269 29,097 Tax paid 251 Receipts in relation to provisions 24 3,666 Net cash inflow from operating activities 62,684 29,097 Investing activities Payment for additions to property, plant and equipment 14 290,123 48,744 Payment for additions to intangible assets 15 3,449 5,259 Disposal of subsidiary, net of cash disposed 5,610 Acquisition of a subsidiary, net of cash acquired 6 32,746 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 63 1,000 Interest received 1,591 14 Net cash used in investing activities 324,664 58,599 Financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 460,000 Proceeds from new debt 55,626 33,915 Proceeds from capital increases by non-controlling interests 67,613 Transaction costs in relation to IPO and new share issue 20,057 Debt arrangement fees paid 8,237 1,475 Debt arrangement fees for Karish-Tanin facility 22 61,496 Finance costs paid 10,919 4,019 Net cash inflow from financing activities 482,530 28,421 112Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018113 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Significant accounting policies Energean Oil & Gas plc the Company was incorporated in England & Wales on 8 May 2017 as a public company with limited liability, 2.1 Basis of preparation underthe Companies Act 2006.
Its registered office is at 44 Baker Street, London W1U 7AL, United Kingdom.
The Company and all The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial subsidiaries controlled by the Company are together referred to as the Group.
instruments that are measured at revalued amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting The Group has been established with the objective of exploration, production and commercialisation of crude oil and natural gas in Greece, policies below.
Israel, North Africa and the wider Eastern Mediterranean.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued The Groups core assets as of 31 December 2018 comprise: by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and adopted by the European Union EU.
Groups Partners The consolidated financial information is presented in US Dollar and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars except where Asset Country working interest working interest Field Phase 1 otherwise indicated.
Tanin Israel 70% 30% Development The consolidated financial statements provide comparative information in respect of the previous period.
In addition, the Group presents 3.
Blocks 12, 21, 22, 23, 31 Israel 70% 30% Exploration an additional statement of financial position at the beginning of the preceding period when there is a retrospective application of an 4.
Prinos Greece 100% N A Production accounting policy, a retrospective restatement, or a reclassification of items in the financial statements.
Prinos North Greece 100% N A Production undeveloped The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the 6.
South Kavala Greece 100% N A Production Group are set out below.
Prinos exploration area Greece 100% N A Exploration 2.2 New and amended accounting standards and interpretations 9.
Katakolo Greece 100% N A Undeveloped The Group has not early adopted any other standard, interpretation or amendment that has been issued but is not yet effective.
Ioannina Greece 40% 60% Exploration 2 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 11.
Aitolokarnania Greece 40% 60% Exploration The Group applies, for the first time, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Block 30 Montenegro 100% N A Exploration The Group has elected to apply the modified retrospective approach to transition permitted by IFRS 15 under which comparative financial information is not restated.
This election has been made as the adjustment on implementation of IFRS 15 is not considered material to 1.
Energean Israel holds 100% interest in the Karish and Tanin leases and in the Blocks 12, 21, 22, 23.
At 31 December 2018, Energean Israel is a subsidiary in which the Groups financial statements.
It is not considered material as the transition has not impacted gross profit in the comparative periods the Group holds a 70% economic interest Note 6.
Kerogen Capital holds the remaining 30% of Energean Israel.
In March 2017 the Group agreed to farm-out a 60% working interest to Repsol operator in the Ioannina and Aitolokarnania blocks.
Disclosure of disaggregated revenue information consistent with the requirement included in IFRS 15 has not had an impact on the The principal operations of the Group are in Greece, Israel and Montenegro.
On 21 March 2018 the Company completed the admission of its shares to the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups accounting policy under IFRS 15 is that revenue is recognised when the Group satisfies a performance obligation by On 29 March 2018 the Group, following a final investment decision in respect of the Karish and Tanin assets, subscribed for additional transferring oil or gas to its customer.
The title to oil and gas typically transfers to a customer at the same time as the customer takes ordinary shares in Energean Israel for an aggregate consideration of $266.7 million, payable in cash.
Since completion of this subscription, physical possession of the oil or gas.
Typically, at this point in time, the performance obligations of the Group are fully satisfied.
The the Group holds 70% of the shares in Energean Israel, with Kerogen Capital holding the remaining 30% refer to note 6. accounting for revenue under IFRS 15 does not, therefore, represent a substantive change from the Groups previous accounting policy Based on the above, since 29 March 2018 Energean has consolidated Energean Israel Ltd to its consolidated financial statements.
forrecognising revenue from sales to customers.
Subsidiaries IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Shareholding Shareholding IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for annual periods beginning on or At 31 December At 31 December after 1January 2018.
Country of incorporation 2018 2017 Name of subsidiary registered office Principal activities % % The effect on the Group of adopting IFRS 9 is, as follows: Energean E&P Holdings Ltd 22 Lefkonos Street, 2064 Nicosia, Cyprus Holding Company 100 100 Loan modification Energean MED Limited 44 Baker Street, London W1U 7AL, UK Oil and gas exploration, 100 development and production IFRS 9 changed accounting for loan modifications, which the Group may experience from time to time.
According to IFRS 9, an entity shall recognise any adjustment to the carrying amount of a financial liability arising from a modification or exchange in the statement of Energean Oil & Gas S. A.
32 Kifissias Ave. 151 25 Marousi Athens, Oil and gas exploration, 100 100 comprehensive income at the date of the modification or exchange.
The classification and measurement of financial liabilities is materially Greece development and production consistent with that required by IAS 39 with the exception of the treatment of modification or exchange of financial liabilities which do not Kavala Oil S. A. P. O.
BOX 8, 64006 Nea Karvali, Kavala, Provision of oil and gas support 99.92 99.92 result in fide-recognition.
Greece services Energean International Limited 22 Lefkonos Street, 2064 Nicosia Oil and gas exploration, 100 100 According to the new requirements: Cyprus development and production X The Company recalculated the amortised cost of the intercompany loan between Energean International Limited Cyprus and Energean Energean Israel Limited Note 6 22 Lefkonos Street, 2064 Nicosia Oil and gas exploration, 70 50 Oil & Gas S. A. Greece in the amount of $192.8 million as at 1 January 2018 when the terms modified on 31 December 2017.
Cyprus development and production As a result, intercompany loan liabilities differed from the liabilities under the loan agreements with the subsequent re-measurement of Energean Montenegro Limited 22 Lefkonos Street, 2064 Nicosia Oil and gas exploration, 100 100 deferred tax.
Cyprus development and production Energean Israel Finance SARL 560A rue fide Neudorf, L-2220, Luxembourg Financing activities 70 X The carrying amount of the intercompany balance is eliminated in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The effect of the Energean Israel Transmission LTD 9 Metsada St. Bnei Brak 5120109, Israel Gas transportation licence holder 70 deferred tax recalculation was recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at the date of the modification or exchange.
114Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018115 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.2 New and amended accounting standards and interpretations continued 2.2 New and amended accounting standards and interpretations continued The impact of the loan modification on the consolidated statement of financial position at the recognition date was as follows: The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be determined, or the Groups incremental borrowing rate.
Balance at 31 December Loan Balance at Balance sheet 2017 modification 1 January The Group expects the impact of the transition to result in higher property, plant and equipment and current and non-current lease liabilities.
published under IFRS 9 2018 $000 $000 $000 Value on Retained earnings 138,455 4,337 142,792 transition Deferred tax liabilities 3,570 4,337 7,907 Property, plant and equipment $000 Current The Group has not identified any other modification in its financial liabilities that would result from retrospective application of IFRS 9.
Non-current 17,898 Total 17,898 The classification and measurement of financial assets have changed with the implementation of IFRS 9.
However, this has not materially changed the measurement of financial assets of the Group.
Value on The IFRS 9 impairment model requiring the recognition of expected credit losses, in contrast to the requirement to recognise incurred transition Lease liabilities $000 credit losses under IAS 39, has not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Trade receivables are settled on a short time Current 7,788 frame and the Groups other financial assets are due from counterparties without material credit risk concerns at the time of transition.
Non-current 10,110 IFRS 16 Leases Total 17,898 The Group will adopt IFRS 16 Leases for the year commencing 1 January 2019, which will impact both the measurement and disclosures ofleases that are valued above a low value threshold and with terms that are longer than one year.
Several other amendments and interpretations apply for the first time in 2018, but did not have any significant impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 16 Leases eliminates the current dual accounting model for lessees, which distinguishes between on-balance sheet finance leases and off-balance sheet operating leases.
Instead, there is a single, on-balance sheet accounting model that is similar to current finance lease 2.3 Basis of consolidation accounting The Group has completed an assessment of lease agreements.
On adoption of IFRS 16, the Group will recognise lease liabilities The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its in relation to leases which are currently classified as operating leases under the principles of IAS 17 Leases.
These liabilities will be measured subsidiaries as detailed in Note 1.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease if available, or the Groups with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee subsidiaries incremental borrowing rate as of 1 January 2019.
The determination of whether there is an interest rate implicit in the rate, the if and only if the Group has: calculation of the Groups subsidiaries incremental borrowing rate, and whether any adjustments to this rate are required for certain portfolios of leases involve some judgement and are subject to change over time.
A 1% change in the Groups incremental borrowing rate would increase X Power over the investee decrease the value of lease liabilities on transition by around $0.2 million.
In accordance with the transition provisions in IFRS 16 the modified X Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and retrospective approach will be adopted, with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard to be recognised on 1January 2019.
X The ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investors returns Comparatives for the 2018 financial year will not be restated.
The expected financial impact of transition to IFRS 16 has been summarised within this note.
In applying IFRS 16 for the first time, the Group will use the following practical expedients permitted by the standard on When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and transition: the use of a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics and to not separate and account circumstances in assessing whether it has control over an investee, including: for both the lease and the associated non-lease component but to account for both as a single combined lease component.
The Group has identified lease portfolios for property, oil and gas supply vessels and other support equipment, and other vehicles.
X The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee X Rights arising from other contractual arrangements Gross value on transition X The Groups voting rights and potential voting rights Lease portfolio $000 Property leases 2,302 The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective Oil and gas supply vessels and other support equipment leases 15,456 date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Other vehicles 140 Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income OCI are attributed to owners of the Group and to the non-controlling Total 17,898 interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All Financial impact of the transition intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Income statement Property leases: These leases are currently included as administrative expenses.
On transition to IFRS 16 the expense will decrease, offset Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Nonby an increase in finance costs and depreciation of other fixed assets.
controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Oil and gas production and support equipment leases: These leases are currently either treated as operating costs or capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
On transition to IFRS 16 operating costs will decrease, offset by an increase in finance costs and depletion Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control of a subsidiary, are accounted for as transactions with and amortisation of oil and gas assets.
the owners i. e. as equity transactions.
The difference between the fair value of any consideration and the resulting change in the noncontrolling interests share of the net assets of the subsidiary, is recorded in equity.
Other vehicles: These leases are currently included as administrative expenses.
On transition to IFRS 16 these expenses will decrease, offset by an increase in finance costs and depreciation of other fixed assets.
116Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018117 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.3 Basis of consolidation continued 3.2 Business combinations and goodwill continued If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting year in which the combination occurs, the Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during those used by the Group.
the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
The measurement period is the year from the date of acquisition to the date the Group receives complete information about facts and 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies circumstances that existed at the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum of one year.
The principal accounting policies and measurement bases used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements unless otherwise stated.
and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the 3.1 Functional and presentation currency and foreign currency translation identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the Functional and presentation currency acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or Items included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries entities are measured using the currency loss as a bargain purchase gain.
oftheprimary economic environment in which each entity operates the functional currency.
3.3 Joint arrangements The functional currency of the Company is the US Dollar US$.
The US Dollar is the currency that mainly influences sales prices, revenue estimates and has a significant effect on Companys operations.
The functional currencies of the Groups main subsidiaries are the euro for A joint arrangement is one in which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an Energean E&P Holdings Ltd, Energean Oil & Gas S. A. Kavala Oil SA and Energean Montenegro, and US$ for Energean International Limited arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Investments in associates and joint ventures Transactions and balances An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets profit or loss.
Such monetary assets and liabilities are translated at year end foreign exchange rates.
Non-monetary items denominated ofthe joint venture.
inaforeign currency are translated at the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction and are not subsequently remeasured.
The considerations made in determining significant influence or joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over Translation to presentation currency subsidiaries.
The Groups investment in its associate and joint venture are accounted for using the equity method.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements information, the assets and liabilities of the Group are expressed in US$.
The Company and its subsidiaries assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing on the reporting date.
Income and Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates have fluctuated significantly during that is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating period, in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment separately.
comprehensive income and accumulated in the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are reclassified to profit or loss The statement of profit or loss reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the associate or joint venture.
Any change in OCI inthe period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
ofthose investees is presented as part of the Groups OCI.
In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the 3.2 Business combinations and goodwill associate or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration transferred in a business interest in the associate or joint venture.
combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for The aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of an associate and a joint venture is shown on the face of the statement of profit or loss control of the acquiree.
For each business combination the acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair outside operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate or joint venture.
value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the consolidated The financial statements of the associate or joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
When necessary, statement of profit or loss as incurred.
adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
Where appropriate, the cost of acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment in at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify its associate or joint venture.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the asmeasurement period adjustments.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified are accounted associate or joint venture is impaired.
If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between for in profit or loss.
Contingent consideration classified as equity is not remeasured.
the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss within Share of profit of an The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business associate and a joint venture in the statement of profit or loss.
Combinations revised 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained X deferred tax assets or liabilities, and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence accordance with IAS 12, Income Taxes and IAS 19, Employee Benefits respectively: or joint control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
X liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements ofthe Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Sharebased payment at the acquisition date: and X non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are measured at fair value less costs to sell.
118Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018119 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.3 Joint arrangements continued 3.7 Other property, plant and equipment Joint operations Other property, plant and equipment comprises plant machinery and installation, furniture and fixtures.
A joint operation is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have the right to the assets Initial recognition and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
In relation to its interests in joint operations, the Group recognises its share of: The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into X Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly operation and borrowing costs.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
X Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly X Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation Depreciation Depreciation of other property, plant and equipment is calculated on the straight-line method so as to write-off the cost amount of each X Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation asset to its residual value, over its estimated useful life.
The useful life of each class is estimated as follows: X Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly Years 3.4 Exploration, evaluation and production assets Buildings 12 The Group adopts the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation costs.
Pre-licence costs are expensed in the Plant and machinery 7 - 30 period in which they are incurred.
All licence acquisition, exploration and evaluation costs and directly attributable administration costs are Furniture, fixtures and equipment 5 - 7 initially capitalised as intangible assets by field or exploration area, as appropriate.
These costs are then written off as exploration costs in the income statement unless commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed and there Depreciation of the assets in the course of construction commences when the assets are ready for their intended use, on the same basis are no indications of impairment.
Cash consideration received on farm-down of exploration and evaluation assets is credited against the as other assets of the same class.
carrying value of the asset.
An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Interest payable is capitalised insofar as it relates to specific benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the development activities.
Property, plant and equipment related to production activities is amortised in accordance with the Groups depletion net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the statement of profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
3.5 Commercial reserves Repairs, maintenance, and renovations Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural Expenditure for routine repairs and maintenance of property, plant and equipment is charged to the profit or loss in the year in which it is gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty to be incurred.
The cost of major improvements and renovations and other subsequent expenditure are included in the carrying amount of the recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially producible.
There should be a 50% statistical asset when the recognition criteria of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment are met.
Major improvements and renovations capitalised probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven and probable reserves and aredepreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
a50% statistical probability that it will be less.
3.8 Other intangible assets 3.6 Depletion and amortisation Computer software All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from the commencement of production on a unit of production basis, which is the Costs that are directly associated with identifiable and unique computer software products controlled by the Group and that will probably ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the period plus the production generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year are recognised as intangible assets.
Subsequently computer software is in the period, generally on a field-by-field basis or by group of fields which are reliant on common infrastructure.
Costs included in the unit carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
of production calculation comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the estimated future field development costs required to Costs associated with maintenance of computer software programs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
recover the commercial reserves remaining.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future field development costs are dealt with prospectively.
Computer software costs are amortised using the straight-line method over their useful live, of between three and five years, which commences when the computer software is available for use.
Where there has been a change in economic conditions that indicates a possible impairment in a discovery field, the recoverability of the net book value relating to that field is assessed by comparison with the estimated discounted future cash flows based on managements 3.9 Impairment of non financial assets expectations of future oil and gas prices and future costs.
In order to discount the future cash flows the Group calculates CGU-specific At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its depreciable property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to discount rates.
The discount rates are based on an assessment of a relevant peer groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC.
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Impairment is assessed at the level of cashThe Group then adds any exploration risk premium which is implicit within a peer groups WACC and subsequently applies additional generating units CGUs which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, are identified as the smallest identifiable group of assets country risk premium for CGUs.
Where there is evidence of economic interdependency between fields, such as common infrastructure, the that generates cash inflows, which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets.
This is usually at the individual royalty, fields are grouped as a single CGU for impairment purposes.
Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect stream, oil and gas or working interest level for each property from which cash inflows are generated.
of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the income statement, net of any amortisation that would have been charged since the impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD and value-in-use VIU.
The future cash flow expected is derived using estimates of proven and probable The reversal is limited such that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds neither its recoverable amount, nor the carrying amount that reserves and information regarding the mineral, stream and oil and gas properties, respectively, that could affect the future recoverability of the would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Discount factors are determined individually for each asset and reflect the respective risk profiles.
Assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may no longer exist.
An impairment charge is reversed if the conditions that gave rise to the recognition of an impairment loss are subsequently reversed and the assets recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount.
Impairment losses can be reversed only to the extent that the recoverable amount does not exceed the carrying value that would have been determined had no impairment been recognised previously.
120Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018121
