Strategic Report Management of Principal Risks Risk management is integral to the achievement of our long-term goals.
Risk management approach 2018 was a year of further embedding The framework has been designed to provide better risk management processes and the Group Risk Committee GRC and the Our risk management activities aim practices as part of our core governance Board with a clear line of sight over risk and to improve performance, encourage and leadership agenda.
Further to enable informed decision-making.
innovation and support the achievement improvements in risk management will be of our strategic objectives.
In doing this, a continued focus in 2019.
We are Risk can present itself in many forms, we take a balanced approach that puts committed to managing risks in a and has the potential to impact our health risk management at the core of the proactive and effective manner to provide and safety, environment, community, senior management agenda, which is assurance to the Board and stakeholders.
reputation, regulatory, market and where we believe it should be.
financial performance and therefore the Risk management framework achievement of our corporate purpose.
To underpin the successful delivery By understanding and managing risk, we of our strategic growth and business We have a risk management framework provide greater certainty and confidence performance the Board and the Chief for identifying and managing risk within for our shareholders, employees, Executive have set the objective for the our defined appetite levels, in relation customers, suppliers, and the communities Company to be in line with FTSE 250 to both our operations and strategy.
During 2018, the Company delivered a Roles and responsibilities of the GRC number of specific initiatives designed to deliver more effective governance.
Identify This was driven by the adoption of risk establish the process for identifying and management, improvements in internal understanding key business risks audit and compliance programmes.
The identify risks in each of our businesses and changes have been implemented with enabling functions MANAGE IDENTIFY risk reviews with senior leadership the full endorsement of the Board.
The review Principal, other Key Risks and Company has now increased its internal Emerging Risks resources as part of a new Legal, Risk and Governance team to support Assess REPORT ASSESS delivery in line with best practice.
prioritise risks through agreed ranking criteria risk appetite set by the Board for all CONTROL Principal Risks Control ownership defined establish key control processes and practices controls to manage the risk within appetite monitor the operation of the controls The process for identifying, assessing and controlling material business Report risks is designed to manage, rather agree and implement measurement and than eliminate.
reporting standards communicate with all stakeholders Manage review all aspects of the Companys risk profile review and challenge risk management practices 30 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Our Risk Governance structure Direct and monitor Board Report Overall responsibility for assessing the Companys Principal Risks, setting risk appetite and monitoring risk management.
Group Risk Committee GRC Audit and Risk Committee Chaired by the Chief Executive and comprised of the Group Management Responsible for reviewing Facilitators Committee members and other key function resources, the GRC is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group Assurance monitoring Principal, Key and Emerging Risks and ensuring the effectiveness of Groups risk management divisional and functional risk management.
Divisional Risk Champions Enabling Function Leadership Teams Enabling Functions Risk Champions Each leadership team is responsible Enabling functions are responsible for ensuring their divisional risks are for identifying and mitigating risks captured and are being effectively within their own functions applicable mitigated within business as usual to Finance, Operations, IT, Human processes.
Risk management is a Resources and Legal, Risk and standing agenda item for leadership Governance.
Business Units Specific business units or sites within each division are implementing their own risk registers, risk and action owners.
Management are responsible for managing local level risk and reporting to the respective leadership teams.
The Board reviews its risk appetite annually Strengthening our framework A new GRC chaired by the Chief Executive by mappings its Principal Risks against a was constituted in 2018.
During the year, To achieve our FTSE 250 upper quartile sliding scale from risk-averse to riskseven GRC meetings were held.
All the performance in governance and risk neutral to risk-tolerant and this informs GMC members, Head of Group management the Board has sought to the development of mitigating actions for Assurance, Director of Group Assurance, further mature and embed the risk each of the Principal Risks.
Group Health and Safety Director, management framework that has been Group Communications Director, Head developed over the past year.
As part of At a strategic level, our risk management of Legal and Deputy Company Secretary this the Company has developed a risk objectives are to: normally attend all meetings of the GRC.
management improvement plan in line Other members of senior management with best practice and ISO 31000 identify the Companys significant risks are also invited to present reports on guidelines.
This includes a number of and appropriate mitigating actions risk activities.
The Chairman of the Board specific initiatives to drive enhanced risk and the Audit and Risk Committee Chair formulate the risk appetite and ensure reporting and further embed risk activities have a standing invite to attend all GRC that our business profile and plans are to improve risk culture across the Company.
meetings and receive copies of the minutes consistent with it of every meeting.
ensure that business growth plans are Risk governance structure properly supported by an effective risk and oversight The GRCs responsibility is to focus and infrastructure co-ordinate risk management activities The Board has established a risk and help our business leaders improve the throughout the Company and to facilitate internal control structure designed to control and co-ordination of risk-taking the appropriate identification, evaluation, manage the achievement of strategic across the business mitigation and management of all key business objectives.
In addition, the GRC reviews Assurance function, separate from line the risk appetite and future risk strategy, management, enables and facilitates the and makes recommendations on risk risk management process across the appetite to the Board and actions Company and acts as the custodian of required to ensure adequate controls and the Companys risk architecture and its mitigating actions are in place against management.
In addition, a number of identified key risks.
divisions have appointed Risk Champions to drive risk management practices into their businesses.
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 Strategic Report Management of Principal Risks continued Risk categories As an important part of fulfilling its The Company has considered the risks it is facing under responsibilities the Board receives regular the following four risk category headings and has identified reporting from the Chief Executive in his 11 Principal Risks capacity as GRC Chairman to enable the Board to challenge and review the GRCs views on the Principal Risks, Key Risks External Operational and Emerging Risks.
Risks relating to the Risks that could impact day-tomacroeconomic climate, day operations and prevent The Audit and Risk Committee engages political events, competitive business as usual activities directly with the divisions and the Enabling pressures or regulatory issues Functions, including deep dive reviews, as part of fulfilling its oversight responsibilities Disruptive on the risk management processes.
The Strategic Audit and Risk Committee, with assistance Risks that could impact the from Group Assurance, oversees Internal risks that may impede business model or viability of the compliance with risk management achievement of strategic goals Company.
Although key disruptive processes and the adequacy of risk risks have been identified and management activities related to the mitigated by the Company, none Companys operations.
of them are considered to be Principal Risks currently The divisional leadership teams and enabling function leadership teams dedicate time each year in a facilitated discussion with Group Assurance to consider the risk environment for their particular functional or geographic area of responsibility and how these could impact The GRC has identified relevant on the achievement of the Companys strategic objectives.
These have been The Company also requires every division presented to the Board and will and enabling function to monitor, communicate and report changes in the continue to be a focus for us in 2019. risk environment and the effectiveness of actions taken to manage identified risks on an ongoing basis.
During the year the GRC and the Board agendas carry out deep dive reviews of the Principal Risks to ensure proper focus and progress with mitigating actions.
Emerging Risks Principal Risks assessment the GRC also considered The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Emerging Risks.
The outputs from the GRC Code the 2018 Code came into effect The GRC has responsibility for overseeing assessments were then presented to the from 1 January 2019.
The 2018 Code requires Essentras Principal Risks.
We undertake a Board for approval along with the the Board to carry out a robust top-down and a bottom-up assessment to recommendation of Principal Risks to be assessment of the Companys Emerging identify our Principal Risks.
The assessment included in the viability testing.
is performed against the four risk categories as set out above.
As part of our As part of the bottom up process, the To respond to this, we have started to top down process an updated assessment divisional leadership teams and enabling integrate Emerging Risks into our current was completed for each Principal Risk by functions have also undertaken a detailed risk management practices, as part of this the GRC.
This top-down assessment risk assessment.
This was then analysed to disruptive was included as a risk category.
required the GRC to provide analysis on ensure completeness and appropriateness material changes in the risk they manage of the Principal Risks.
and whether they consider it to have more or less impact during the course of the year The Board believes that the Principal Risks on achievement of our strategic objectives.
are specific to Essentra and reflect the risk profile of the Company at the current time.
These individual responses were All the Principal Risks are being managed consolidated, the GRC then discussed and within their individual risk appetite.
As a reached a consensus regarding Principal result, the Principal Risks are a combination Risks that can seriously affect the of new and previously disclosed risks.
performance, future prospects or The updated risk management practices reputation of Essentra.
As part of this have facilitated a better articulation of 32 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T Principal Risks 1.
Failure to Achieve Acceptable Returns from the Packaging Division 2.
Macro-economic and Trade Deal 6 5 3 Uncertainty including Brexit 7. Business Continuity Planning and 8 4 10 Management 9 1 2 7 11 8.
IT Systems Stability and Reliability Likelihood Strategic Risks External Risks Operational Risks KEY: Increased, Decreased, No Change, New Key changes in the year the nature and characteristics of the Following the 2018 review process, The Customer Service Quality major risks and an enhanced focus on our risk profile remains stable and OTIF Principal Risk was effective mitigation.
relative to last year, with the downgraded to a Key Risk given following key changes: the significant work performed.
In addition to the Principal Risks, other Key Our improvements in service and Emerging Risks have been identified Two Principal Risks were merged quality mean this risk can now and are being monitored by the Company.
to reduce duplication and enable be managed as business-asThese are not currently material to be more effective management of usual activities considered as Principal Risks.
Product Quality, Liability actions in response to such risks are an and Contamination has been One new Principal Risk was important part of the divisional and merged with Regulatory Products identified, relating to the Delivery enabling functional risk reporting to the as Product Liability.
Resilience Natural Catastrophe has been introduced given and Fire has been merged with the Companys strategic The Board and GRC evaluate the potential Supply Chain Single Point of Failure growth initiatives effects of Principal Risks materialising over as Business Continuity Planning a three-year period to understand how they and Management could impact the Companys long-term viability.
The evaluation is based on plausible worst case scenarios.
These scenarios encompass what could reasonably go wrong, as a foreseeable perfect storm.
To make this evaluation, the estimated financial impact of each Principal Risk crystallising was considered.
The Board and GRC assessed the potential impact on the Companys viability, based on selected severe plausible risk scenarios.
These were developed in conjunction with senior management.
The Principal Risks that were considered to have a potentially significant impact on the Companys viability are included in the Long-Term Viability Statement on pages 107 to 108.
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 Impact Strategic Report Management of Principal Risks continued New No change Increased Decreased Strategic Risk Failure to Achieve Acceptable Returns from the Packaging Division Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance Decreased Packaging division Company Specific Managing Director Description Mitigation Principal Risks relating to the potential The Packaging division has been a key decline of the Packaging division were area of focus for the Company in 2018 reported in 2017.
During 2018, the division and a number of changes have been has stabilised.
Therefore risk focus is now made to address the divisions on ensuring the stabilisation steps that have been taken are effective and performance, including: sustained and allow the division to provide an acceptable return.
This risk includes the a new Packaging division strategy has potential of the Packaging turnaround been developed, communicated and failing to deliver new business wins, expected cost savings, or takes longer or rolled out costs more to implement than expected.
pricing strategies, major CAPEX investments and a greater focus on quality and cost management new divisional and regional leadership teams established introduction of more effective pipeline management processes, expansion of innovation collaboration using the Design Hub capability establishment of Key Account Management Structure to enhance customer relationships monthly performance reviews of key initiatives 34 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T Strategic Risk Tobacco Industry Dynamics Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance Increased Filters division Company Specific Managing Director Description Mitigation The Filters division supplies filter products Essentra is seeking to mitigate the risk developing world class capabilities in and packaging solutions to manufacturers associated with changes in the tobacco operations and responsiveness to in the tobacco industry.
Changes in the market dynamics by focusing on activities customer demands traditional tobacco market present both with longer-term viability and exploiting opportunities and risks for the division.
exploring medium to long-term value potential growth opportunities.
This creation levers: Whilst the Company has a strong market includes progressing on our game changers position the future growth opportunities investing to establish continued and increasing our innovation capabilities may be affected by dynamics of the growth in the highly attractive tobacco industry such as the declining increased segmentation and Chinese market combustible markets, shifting towards prioritisation based on customer Next Generation Products NGP as well delivering new solutions and as moving towards other tobacco categorisation and filter differentiation business models to respond to substitutes such as cannabis.
further upgrading of innovation evolving outsourcing requirements Essentras competitive position can be capabilities and research and of our customers sustained if we continue to adapt our development operational capacity and innovation developing NGP and testing capabilities in line with key market trends.
enhanced focus on Key Account capabilities Key market trends include global Management, leading to better market consumption shift from western to eastern visibility and building further enhanced markets, customers self-manufacture relationships and demand volatility, increasing commercial pressures, special filters and NGP developments and evolving legislation.
There is an increasing trend towards more legislation restricting smoking prevalence.
Tobacco-related litigation could also affect Essentra, although there is no history of the Company being involved in such a claim.
A number of initiatives are targeted to be completed in 2019 which are anticipated to minimise the risk over time.
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35 Strategic Report Management of Principal Risks continued Strategic Risk Delivery of Strategic Projects Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance: New Strategy and Company Specific Commercial Director Description Mitigation The Companys success is dependent on its The Company uses a range of controls to an annual strategic review is in place ability to deliver key strategic projects on ensure successful delivery of strategic with the Board and the GMC where time and within budget, to realise their full projects including: we proactively monitor the market, potential.
The Company invests in, and review our strategy and our strategic delivers, significant strategic, operational a project management methodology has and capital expenditure projects in order to programmes.
This process is led by the been put in place to enable the Company drive the business forward.
In line with our Strategy and Commercial Director to manage, monitor and control its major strategic plans this project approach also strategic programmes, investments and acquisition pipeline management to includes the acquisition and disposal of businesses.
Failure to deliver such key capital expenditure projects identify suitable acquisition targets projects effectively and efficiently could with best value-creation potential key, strategic projects are reviewed result in significantly increased project costs and impede our ability to execute our and approved by the Board and GMC, undertake post-investment project strategic plans.
as appropriate reviews to identify key learnings to embed into future initiatives This is a newly identified Principal Risk given robust governance, detailed reporting our strategic growth initiatives.
and regular reviews by the GMC and the maintain strong focus on the Board of project KPIs and key milestones capability of our employees.
This is achieved by mobilising teams which use of external advisers to provide possess the right skills to deliver our expertise, assistance and rigorous strategic programmes due diligence 36 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T External Risk Regulatory Governance Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance: No Change Company Secretary and Industry General General Counsel Description Mitigation The Company operates across many The Company deploys a range of controls processes and reporting.
Each international jurisdictions and engages to manage regulatory risk including: division is responsible for embedding with a wide range of stakeholders, regulatory compliance in their including a diverse employee, customer and a tone from the top from the Board particular sector supplier base.
Some locations we operate in and GMC on the importance of ethics are high risk.
We are required to comply and compliance through the Companys compliance with multiple areas of legislation, programme, we aim to conform with regulation and good practice for areas such strengthening of internal resources and as Anti-Trust, Anti-Bribery, Sanctions and all applicable laws, regulations and continued investment to drive better General Data Protection Regulation encourage a culture of transparency, governance GDPR.
Our operations are subject to an integrity and respect external environment which is seeing appointment of a Data Privacy Officer increasing levels of scrutiny and oversight a Right to Speak process in which and continued roll out of the GDPR from regulators and enforcement agencies.
the Chief Executive, Company compliance programmes Secretary and General Counsel and Failure to manage effectively the scrutiny the Companys Legal, Risk and and oversight and or comply with new Group Human Resources Director Governance team continuously monitors laws and regulations could result in are key stakeholders significant fines, costs and reputational changes in regulations and emerging In 2019 we will continue to embed our damage to the Company.
This team is responsible controls and processes and monitor for enacting an appropriate compliance Whilst the external environment is compliance and assess the potential generating additional compliance demands framework with effective policies, impact of any additional Emerging Risks.
of enforcement the level of risk to the Company has remained the same.
External Risk Cyber Attack Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance: Increased Chief Information Officer Industry General Description Mitigation The Company is dependent on the The Company deploys a range of controls preparation for Cyber Essentials Plus IT systems for day-to-day operations.
to manage risk of cyber attack including: and ISO 27001 Should the Company be affected by a cyber security breach, this could result endpoint protection, encryption of data, further investment in cyber security in suspension of some IT services and loss identity-based access control, network has been budgeted in 2019 as a result of data.
Subsequently, the Company could firewalls, web and email content of increased threat receive fines, lose customer confidence and protection suffer reputational damage.
Cyber security continues to be the cyber security awareness training for subject of a high degree of monitoring The risk of cyber attack is constant, the all employees through the GRC and the Board.
Our Company experienced two sophisticated breaches in 2018.
These were contained as Crisis Communication Network is vulnerability and penetration testing for part of our internal cyber incident response currently being enhanced to include a all external facing Company services process and were reported to the UK cyber attack scenario.
and websites Information Commissioners Office.
No direct financial loss was sustained scanning, monitoring and logging tools and these events served as a stark reminder to identify intrusions and detect rogue of the need to continue efforts to improve cyber security.
Cyber attacks are data traffic recognised as normal course of business enhance internal cyber security skills and the Company continues to be vigilant.
and capabilities However the level of the risk has increased.
The financial impacts from a cyber attack have been analysed and included in the Companys viability modelling.
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 37 Strategic Report Management of Principal Risks continued External Risks Macro-economic and Trade Deal Uncertainty including Brexit Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance: Increased Group Operations Director Industry General Description Mitigation Macro-economic uncertainty: As a global business, we operate in many The Board considers potential impacts of Essentra has an international customer countries and currencies so changes to major macro-economic events, including base which dilutes the effect of global economic conditions or trading the UKs decision to leave the EU.
arrangements have the potential to impact The breadth of the Companys portfolio multinational companies such as ours.
The economic environment is constantly and its diversification across markets, monitored as part of our business Specifically, the impending Brexit situation geographies and products provides some could impact the Company in a number planning cycle and budgeting, enabling natural mitigations of potential impacts.
of ways: a degree of forward planning in the However, it is not possible to mitigate event of a period of economic instability.
a material element of the operations the impact of the UK leaving the EU on of the Components division involves This is performed in close co-ordination 29 March 2019 entirely.
manufacturing and importing products with each division to pinpoint trends in the UK and distributing them into the Our business divisions consider the wider likely to impact our individual EU.
Should trade tariffs and or a customs economic situation in their strategies as business activities.
border be imposed this could lead to increased costs and complexity within part of the budgeting and strategic The annual budgets that result from the the divisions existing business model planning process.
planning process are a control against the Company has multiple which monthly results are monitored, manufacturing sites in the UK.
Should Brexit uncertainty: surfacing any effects of economic trade tariffs or a customs border be During 2018 and the early part of 2019, imposed, this could restrict supply chain instability and informing commercial the Company conducted a thorough review opportunities available to these sites decision making.
This included consultation depending on the outcome of Movements in currency can have with external experts.
Detailed Brexit negotiations, Brexit could increase positive and negative impacts on the the cost of, or restrict funding for, Preparedness Plans have been formalised the Groups current and future Companys reported earnings.
This is including a No Deal Brexit scenario for investment plans managed through proactive hedging of each of our business divisions.
These are Given the uncertainty surrounding Brexit, currency measures.
the financial impact has been analysed and estimated in a plausible worst case During 2018, the following key actions scenario.
This is included in the Companys were taken: viability modelling.
changes to the European asset footprint to optimise material flows optimisation of product manufacturing locations versus customer locations seeking alternative raw material supply sources to minimise cross-border flows working to obtain an Approved Economic Operator status to minimise inspection delays 38 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T Operational Risks Business Continuity Planning and Management Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance: No Change Group Operations Director Industry General Description Mitigation The continuity of our supply chain is a The Group continues to review and refresh continuing to identify alternative critical factor in serving our customers.
Our its business continuity planning processes.
sources of supply for key raw materials operating model is constantly exposed to Such plans are kept under constant review and supply guarantees where many different situations, and our customers and are tested periodically.
necessary and feasible expect us to have a resilient supply chain to minimise the impact of any disruption.
Other mitigating factors that the ensuring comprehensive Given our global footprint we are exposed Company has in place are: maintenance plans are in place to a broader set of potential disruption risks for key manufacturing equipment, operating within a flexible global including natural catastrophe.
This global and or alternative manufacturing footprint provides risk diversification, via infrastructure alternative manufacturing routes.
routes are identified developing multi-site capabilities and The Group experienced limited employee maintaining an insurance programme manufacturing flexibility impact and operational disruption as a and working closely with our insurers result of natural catastrophes during 2018. fire and other risk prevention systems FM Global to ensure complete and Should further events occur, this could assessing and managing operational impact production capability and fixed comprehensive cover to prevent losses assets, supply chain management, customer risks via the enterprise risk management relationships, reputation, revenue and profit.
process Such events continue to be a risk to the normal operation of the Company.
The level of risk remains the same.
Given the Company has some single manufacturing site dependencies, for the production of specific products, related downturn financial impacts have been analysed and estimated in a reasonable worst case scenario.
Those impacts are material enough to be included in the Companys viability modelling.
Operational Risks Product Liability Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance: No change Group Operations Director Industry General Description Mitigation The Company manufactures a range of The Company uses a range of controls to checking supplier specifications.
products for a wide range of customers, manage risk relating to the products that We exercise the right to due diligence some of which provide a significant it manufactures and distributes, including: when it comes to undertake new proportion of Company and or divisional suppliers and continuing to do revenues.
Should the Company fail to maintaining the quality and safety of our provide adequate quality on a consistent business with existing ones products by ensuring strict quality basis in its products, including failure to control and product testing procedures The Company continues to assess adhere to customer specifications, or failure to adhere to underlying industry potential exposures to litigation arising ongoing tracking of quality metrics and specifications or regulations there is a risk from tobacco-related or Next review of quality management processes of loss of customers, liability resulting Generation Products, and seeks to to ensure they remain fit for purpose from product-related risks or previously manage the supply, packaging and unanticipated product liabilities.
divisional capital expenditure plans also labelling of such products accordingly.
The level of the risk has remained the include, where appropriate, additional In 2019, we will continue to monitor same as there have been no material spend on inspection equipment e. g. changes in emerging regulations in changes in levels of product regulation sensors, cameras to improve in-line or business operations.
the sector with support from external inspection and further reduce the specialists where necessary.
likelihood of product quality issues trade industry body membership to remain abreast of industry regulations group compliance policies, processes and guidance materials MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39 Strategic Report Management of Principal Risks continued Operational Risks Internal Processes and Controls Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance: Decreased Chief Financial Officer Company Specific Description Mitigation Processes and controls play an important During 2018, Minimum Controls Standards The 2019 Group Assurance plan will also part in our ability to prevent and detect MCS were rolled out across various key focus on MCS remediation activities and inappropriate and unethical behaviour.
This sites in the Company with a particular controls review for key sites.
includes fraud, deliberate financial focus on the financial control environment.
misstatement and improper accounting While we have taken steps to improve our practices.
If the design, operation or the The MCS project is overseen and sponsored control environment, we recognise we assurance over these controls is ineffective by both the Audit and Risk Committee and have more to do.
Development of the or ownership is not defined or controls are GMC.
The objectives of this project are to: Companys IT capabilities will support the overridden, there is a greater risk of operational loss.
The lack of documentation develop a robust and effective financial improvement in internal business and embedment of standard operating control environment processes.
procedures across key business areas including finance increases this risk.
embed a controls culture across Further activities in 2019 will include the Company rolling out of MCS across our key During 2018, we have taken several business areas.
We are also enhancing initiatives to reduce this risk with further As a result of the MCS project we have work planned in 2019. our controls and compliance programme identified both improvement areas and to strengthen awareness of the areas of good practice, these are being standards we expect and the capabilities shared across the Company.
In respect of of our people, and to reinforce the improvement areas identified, remediation importance of doing business in a plans are well underway including disciplined and standardised way documentation of key risks and controls underpinned by strong controls.
Operational Risks Safety including Regulatory Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance: No change Group Human Resources Industry General Director Description Mitigation Safety is of the highest priority for Throughout 2018, the tone from the top root cause analysis is conducted for the Company.
Essentra has many on safety has been reinforced across all any issues identified through manufacturing facilities across the world, of the businesses.
Management teams investigation of serious incidents, along with non-manufacturing sites and have been instructed to give a high including Near Misses and Stop, Think, internationally mobile employees.
Factory manufacturing can be inherently risky priority to establishing appropriate Safety Examine, Proceed STEP programme given the use of industrial machinery and Management Systems and reinforcing the our Global STEP programme which is a high speed manufacturing processes.
desired behaviours by all who are employed hazard identificationand processIn addition, the Company must comply by the Company.
with national safety regulation in improvement initiative.
Its purpose is to multiple jurisdictions.
Some of the key mitigations which are empower the entire workforce to When considering Health and Safety, in place: recognise and address opportunities Essentra is aware that should an injury or regular reporting to the GMC, GRC and corrective actions arising from any fatality occur involving our employees or the Board on Health, Safety and STEPs raised are assigned an owner visitors: or should there be any breach of safety regulation resulting in prosecution, Environment HSE related matters who takes responsibility for considerable reputational damage is implementing appropriate corrective a Group HSE policy is in place detailing anticipated as well as potentially and preventative actions within significant financial costs.
required standards, governance, roles 48 hours and responsibilities at all sites Such events will continue to be a threat to In 2019, we will be developing Health the Company, consequently the level of the performance monitoring and Health and risk remains the same with continued and Safety Assurance Map to ensure all Safety Audits, incorporating reporting active management and controls to risks are managed across our three lines and escalation arrangements to ensure mitigate these risks.
all actions are closed 40 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T Operational Risks IT Systems Stability and Reliability Change in risk level: Ownership: Relevance: Decreased Chief Information Officer Company Specific Description Mitigation The Company is dependent on a wide The Company began an investment new monitoring and filtering tools range of IT systems for its day-to-day programme in Q4 2017 to upgrade and have been introduced to provide operations.
Some of these systems lack reconfigure the internal infrastructure secure access to external services the functionality of modern software.
This across all divisions and key sites.
The focus and the internet could have an impact on manufacturing operations, delay customer shipments was to reduce, and ultimately eliminate, IT incident management processes and therefore impact customer service the number of unplanned outages caused are now embedded to provide faster and profitability.
by systems failure and avoid any disruption resolution of problems and minimise The level of risk has decreased compared to business operations.
This is due to several initiatives during 2018, 10m was invested completed in 2018 resulting in greater A solid technical foundation has been stability in our IT infrastructure.
in stabilising our IT infrastructure, put in place to bring greater resilience strengthening cyber security defences and reliability to core systems.
For 2019, and improving system usability attention will be paid to good IT service the stability programme included five management practices in order to workstreams: connectivity and resilience, reduce the IT incident rates even further.
modern workplace, technical operations, The Company continues to make cyber security and public cloud services.
significant investment in technology The majority of this work has been infrastructure to ensure that it continues completed in 2018 and is expected to to support the growth of the business.
conclude in the first half of 2019 During 2019, we are launching our core networks and data communications Business Process Redesign BPR were upgraded and scaled to programme which is a multi-million accommodate the forecasted increase pound investment over the next in data flows resulting from cloud-based five years.
services and electronic communications with our customers and suppliers MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41
