Annual report & accounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TOP-DOWN APPROACH Oversight, identification, assessment and management of risks at the corporate level CEO Board of Directors Has ultimate responsibility for risk Has an oversight role management, ensuring that it is in Ensures that risk management processes areinplace, adequate, effective place and effectively functioning Approves the risk appetite in accordance with the risk management methodology adopted by EVRAZ Risk Management Group Audit Committee Internal audit Identifies, assesses and Supports the board in monitoring Supports the Audit Committee monitors Group-wide risks risk exposure against risk appetite in reviewing the effectiveness and mitigation actions Reviews the effectiveness of risk ofrisk management and management and internal internal control systems control systems For more information, The risk management process EFFECTIVE see risk management and aims to identify, evaluate and internal control section of RISK manage potential and actual the corporate governance threats to the Groups ability report on pages 109111.
MANAGEMENT to achieve its objectives.
Site levels Identification, assessment and mitigation of risks Promoting risk awareness and safety culture Regional business unit management teams Adopt regional risk appetite Support the Risk Management Group in reviewing and monitoring effectiveness of risk management Identify, assess and manage risks at the regional level Monitor risk management process and effectiveness of internal control Identification, assessment and management of risks at regional and site levels and across functions BOTTOM-UP APPROACH 34 www.
com Probability STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information RISK MIGRATION IN 2018 AND ROBUST ASSESSMENT In 2018, management carried out a robust controls address these risks and associated While the composition of the Groups reassessment of the principal risks facing areas, general uncertainty in the area heightens principal risks has not changed substantially the Group.
The Audit Committee has carefully the managements focus on this risk.
compared with the previous year, a detailed reviewed this assessment on behalf of the Board.
analysis of their impact and probability While the risk of availability of finance of negative consequences for the Group has led The assessment focused on the risks that could remains one of the Groups key focus areas, to a recalibration in the assessment of some adversely affect the Groups strategies.
It included after the reassessment in 2018 this is no of the risks.
an evaluation of risks identified at the operational longer considered a principal risk as a result level and their relevance and significance of the Groups actions to extend its debt maturity The Group closely monitors the impact of the UK for the Group, as well as a detailed assessment profile.
referendum vote to leave the EU and continues of some specific areas where new risks have to believe that it will not significantly affect its been identified or the risk profile has changed The assessment included other risks that were business.
The management also considered not recognised as principal, eg HR and employee the speed of impact and volatility of each risk risks including the risks of lack of skills, failure in their assessment.
As a result, the principal risks of succession planning, reduced productivity due Key developments in 2018 have been updated.
to labour unrest or poor job satisfaction, taxation, and outlook for 2019 compliance risks including anti-corruption International groups operate in the context of tariff and anti-bribery matters, social and community In 2018, the Group analysed the adequacy and sanctions regimes and significant changes risks, risks of climate change, risks related of its risk management practices and identified could have a material impact on the Groups with respect for human rights, and other risks.
gaps in key business processes.
Plans and mitigating measures are put While the impact and probability analysis suggests the maturity of EVRAZ risk management in place to the extent possible and reasonable that such risks could affect the Groups operations process was generally assessed as fair, there but these matters are largely outside the Groups to some extent, the management believes were areas identified that require additional control.
The risk of compliance with trade, antithey are being adequately managed and does management focus and implementation monopoly and anti-dumping regulations, as well not consider them as being capable of seriously or improvement of risk management as sanctions regimes were reassessed during affecting the Groups performance, future instruments or practices.
An action plan for each 2018 to reflect increased government activity prospects or reputation.
EVRAZ activity in many gap was developed and will be introduced.
and other external factors on the sector.
As of these areas is described in greater detail EVRAZ activity in this area is described in more a result this has been classified as a principal in the CSR Report section on pages 7297. detail in the Corporate Governance section risk.
While the Groups internal compliance of this report.
Severity Principal risks and uncertainties heat map in 2018 1.
HSE: environmental 8 industry conditions 5 and cyclicality 7.
Cybersecurity and IT with trade regulations infrastructure failure and sanctions regimes 4 4 5.
Functional currency devaluation 1 Risk appetite level 9 6 7 3 Volatility Speed of impact 5 2 Hight Hight 3 Medium Medium 2 10 Low Low 1 Risk migration, yoy 1 2 3 4 5 35 Annual report & accounts 2018 RISK MIGRATION IN 2018 AND ROBUST ASSESSMENT Success Factors Strategic priorities Debt management and stable dividends Prudent CAPEX Retention of low-cost position Health, Human Customer Asset EVRAZ Development of product portfolio safety and capital focus development business system and customer base environment Direction of risk change No changes Increased Mitigating Direction Risk Description and impact risk management actions in 2018 reason for change 1.
EVRAZ operations are dependent on the This is an external risk that is mostly outside the Global economic global macroeconomic environment, as well as Groups control: however, it is partly mitigated by factors, industry economic and industry conditions, eg the global exploring new market opportunities, focusing on conditions and supply and demand balance for steel, iron ore expanding the share of value-added products, further cyclicality and coking coal, which affect both product prices downscaling inefficient assets, suspending production and volumes across all markets.
in low-growth regions, further reducing and managing The Groups operations involve substantial the cost base with the objective of being among the fixed costs, and global economic and industry sectors lowest-cost producers, and balance sheet conditions can impact the Groups operational gearing improvement.
Excessive supply on the global market and Expand product portfolio and penetrate new Product competition greater competition, mostly in the steel products geographic and product markets.
market, primarily due to competitors activity and Develop and improve loyalty and customer focus introduction of new facilities.
Low demand for construction products and Quality improvement initiatives.
increasing competition in this segment.
Focus on expanding the share of value-added Increasing competition in the rail product segment.
Excessive supply of slabs on the global market and intensified competition.
Most of the Groups steel production remains For both the mining and steelmaking operations, sensitive to costs and prices.
the Group is implementing cost-reduction projects to Given the substantial product share of commodity increase asset competitiveness.
Cost effectiveness semi-finished, which requires less customer service Focused investment policy aimed at reducing and and is more cost driven, maintaining a low-cost managing the cost base.
position is one of EVRAZ key business objectives in Further expansion and control of the Groups Russian steelmaking, as well as in the iron ore and coking steel distribution network.
Development of high value-added products.
Digitalisation is having a significant impact on the EVRAZ Business System transformation projects sector, as companies seek to use new technology focused on increasing efficiency and effectiveness.
to support efforts to improve productivity and margins across the value chain.
Failure to find digital solutions for the most urgent business problems could reduce operational flexibility and cost advantage.
Risks of non-compliance with various trade Ongoing control over regulatory compliance, monitoring Compliance with regulations, including anti-dumping and antiof regulatory changes and development of necessary Increased trade regulations and monopoly measures.
due to rising sanctions regimes Risk of a failure of the Groups controls, leading Ongoing engagement with governments, coordination external pressure on to trading with and shipping to embargoed and cooperation with regulatory authorities.
While the Groups internal compliance controls address the Groups failure Risks of the Groups failure to adapt to new market the associated risks, the general uncertainty in the to adapt to new conditions and to take losses connected with area increases the managements focus on this risk.
market conditions or existing contracts in case of additional sanctions restrictions.
Any significant fluctuation in subsidiaries functional EVRAZ works to reduce the amount of intergroup loans Functional currency currencies relative to the US dollar could have a denominated in Russian roubles to limit the possible devaluation significant effect on the Groups financial accounts, devaluation effect on its consolidated net income.
which might impact its ability to borrow.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information Mitigating Direction Risk Description and impact risk management actions in 2018 reason for change 6.
Steel and mining production carry an inherent risk Environmental risks matrix is monitored on a regular HSE: environmental of environmental impact and incidents relating to basis.
Respective mitigation activity is developed and issues as diverse as water usage, quality of water performed in response to the risks.
discharged, waste recycling, tailing management, Implementation of air emissions and water use air emissions including greenhouse gases, and reduction programmes at plants.
Consequently, EVRAZ faces risks including Most of EVRAZ operations are certified under ISO regulatory fines, penalties, adverse reputational 14001 and the Group continues to work towards impact and, in the extreme, the withdrawal of bringing the remaining plants to ISO 14001 plant environmental licences, which would curtail requirements.
EVRAZ is currently compliant with REACH operations indefinitely.
Participation in development of GHG emissions regulation in Russia.
Reduction in GHG emissions as a positive side-effect of energy efficiency projects.
Potential danger of fire, explosions and Management KPIs place significant emphasis on safety HSE: health, safety electrocution, as well as risks specific to individual performance and the standardisation of critical safety mines: methane levels, rock falls and other programmes.
accidents could lead to loss of personnel, outage Implementing an energy isolation programme.
or production delays, loss of material, equipment or Further development of a programme of behaviour product, or extensive damage compensation.
safety observations which drives a more proactive Breach of any HSE laws, regulations and standards approach to preventing injuries and incidents.
may result in fines, penalties and adverse A series of health and safety initiatives related to reputational impacts and, in the extreme, the underground mining.
withdrawal of mining operational licences, thereby Maintenance and repair modernisation programmes, curtailing operations for an indefinite period.
Further development of occupational safety risk assessment methodology.
Analysis of effectiveness of corrective measures.
New laws, regulations or other requirements While these risks are mostly outside the Groups Potential government could limit the Groups ability to obtain financing control, EVRAZ and its executive teams are members of Increased action on international markets, sell its products and various national industry bodies.
due to rising purchase equipment.
As a result, they contribute to the development of such government activity Risk of capital controls that affect the Group in bodies and, when appropriate, participate in relevant and external terms of free flow of capital.
discussions with political and regulatory authorities.
pressure on the EVRAZ may also be adversely affected by Procedures have been implemented and will be further sector in some government sanctions against Russian businesses developed to ensure that sanction requirements are countries of or otherwise reducing its ability to conduct business complied with across the Groups operations.
Risks could be realised through the introduction of additional sanctions or tariffs on some of the Groups products.
Risk of adverse geopolitical situation in countries of operation.
Prolonged outages or production delays, especially The Group has defined and established disaster Business interruption in coal mining, could have a material adverse effect recovery procedures that are subject to regular review.
on the Groups operating performance, production, Business interruptions in mining mainly relate to financial condition and future prospects.
Measures to mitigate these risks In addition, long-term business interruption may include methane monitoring and degassing systems, result in a loss of customers and competitive timely mining equipment maintenance, and employee advantage, and damage to the Groups reputation.
Detailed incident cause analysis is performed in order to develop and implement preventative actions.
Records of minor interruptions are reviewed to identify any more significant underlying issues.
Information technology and information security risks Further development of a cybersecurity protection Cybersecurity and IT have the potential to cause prolonged production system, focused on: infrastructure failure delays or shutdowns.
isolation and protection of industrial networks: Increased digital transformation and the convergence antivirus software systems update: of IT and operational technology, which makes upgrade and expansion of backup systems: companies more vulnerable.
implementation of incident monitoring systems: The level of cybercrime globally is rising simultaneously and other measures.
with increasing reliance on IT.
37 Annual report & accounts 2018 VIABILITY STATEMENT As a global steel and mining group, EVRAZ The assessment was underpinned Introduction of new tariffs and duties is exposed to a range of risks and inherent by scenarios that encompass a wide spectrum Business interruption, leading to lost uncertainties that are explained more fully of potential outcomes.
These scenarios production and restoration costs in this section.
The Groups principal risks are designed to explore the Groups resilience Combinations of correlated risks scenarios and its approach to managing them, together to the significant risks set out on pages 3637 with the latest financial forecasts and fiveand combinations of correlated risks.
Some risks The scenarios are designed to be severe year strategic plan, have formed the basis are outside the Groups control and the potential but plausible.
They take full account of this long-term viability assessment.
EVRAZ implications are difficult to predict in the current of the potential actions available to mitigate believes that a five-year period is optimal environment and considered remote.
The key the occurrence and impact of the risk, for the viability analysis, as it corresponds scenarios tested can be summarised as: and the likely effectiveness of such action.
to the period used in the Groups strategic Base scenario: The process makes certain assumptions planning and therefore reflects the information The key assumptions as disclosed about the normal level of capital recycling available to management regarding the future in Note 6 to the financial statements likely to occur and considers whether performance of the business.
Visibility under Impairment of assets on pages 179 additional financing facilities will be required of performance and risks beyond the strategic 181 and available in each scenario.
EVRAZ planning cycle is limited and scenarios beyond Future pricing of steel and raw materials considers this assessment of its prospects this five-year period have not been analysed is within the range of the external analyst based on stress-testing to be reasonable, given for the purposes of the viability statement.
forecasts set out in Note 6 the risks and inherent uncertainties facing Annual steel volumes are assumed the business.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 to vary from -0.3% to 17.9% compared of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, with the 2018 level over the five-year period The directors confirm that their assessment the Board has assessed the Groups prospects to December 2023 of the principal risks facing the Group over the period of the current strategic plan is robust.
Based upon this robust assessment to December 2023 and considers it possible Global economic decline: and the stress-testing of the Groups prospects to form a reasonable expectation of the Groups Steel and raw material prices and exchange across several risk-related scenarios, viability over this five-year period.
rates during 2018 and future periods the directors have a reasonable expectation are at the lower end of the external analyst that EVRAZ will be able to continue in operation The assessment included consideration forecast set out in Note 6 and meet its liabilities as they fall due of the stress-testing detailed below, Sales volumes are assumed to decrease over the five-year period to December 2023. with particular attention paid to the forecast by 3.0% in comparison with the base cash position and compliance with financial scenario In making this statement, the directors have maintenance covenants in each scenario, made the following key assumptions: as well as the mitigation plan developed Increased conversion costs in the CIS The continued availability of funding by the management.
Appreciation of local operating currencies or refinancing, by way of capital markets, bank Cybersecurity failure resulting in production debt, and asset financing delays or shutdowns Selling prices remain in line with prevailing market assumptions.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING EVRAZ aims to comply with the non-financial The table below outlines to stakeholders reporting requirements contained in sections the Groups position, principal policies, main 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. risks and KPIs on key non-financial areas.
Related Requirement The Groups approach and policies Documents Related KPIs principal risks Environment Steel and mining production carry a high risk of EVRAZ HSE Policy The HSE Committee adopted new HSE: environmental impact and incidents related to its five-year environmental targets: environmental Code of Business Conduct Further see page 37 production processes.
That is why EVRAZ pays the Decreasing fresh water information: closest attention to environmental matters in order consumption by 10% Environment, to prevent or minimise any adverse impacts.
Recycling 95% of non-mining waste see pages 7782 per year Maintaining the greenhouse gas Energy efficiency, intensity ratio below 2 tonnes see page 83 of carbon dioxide CO equivalent 2 tCO e per tonne of steel cast 2 Employees EVRAZ strictly complies with national labour laws EVRAZ HSE Policy LTIFR per 1 million hours HSE: health and and best practices of business ethics concerning safety Code of Business Conduct Labour productivity, steel tonnes per Further see page 37 employee management.
Discrimination related information: person to a persons race, ethnic origin, gender, religion, Our people, political views, nationality, age, sexual orientation, see pages 8489 etc is totally unacceptable throughout the Group, as well as at its subcontractors and suppliers.
Health and safety, see pages Due to industry-specific issues, EVRAZ employees 7276 and contractors face safety and health risks.
Providing a safe work environment is one of the Groups main core values.
Social policy EVRAZ strives to make a meaningful contribution Social Investments Guidelines Fulfilment of the Groups social Global economic to local economies and to support communities obligations towards its employees, factors, industry Further wherever it operates.
The Group supports which were fixed in the collective conditions and information: infrastructural, sport, educational and cultural agreements.
cyclicality Community programmes with an aim to improve the quality of relations.
Interaction with local communities in Business see pages life in local communities.
the regions of the Groups presence interruption 9095 during the implementation of various see pages 3637 CSR related projects.
Respect for EVRAZ commitments are based on internationally Code of Business Conduct Zero tolerance to violation.
None of EVRAZ human rights recognised standards and respect for all human current principal Modern Slavery Transparency rights.
Child labour, bonded labour, human trafficking risks relates to Statement Further and other forms of slavery are strictly prohibited at the aspects of information: all Group subsidiaries and their suppliers.
EVRAZ human rights Our approach, see pages rules also prohibit abusive, harassing, discriminatory, 7273 degrading or aggressive speech or conduct.
Anti-corruption In accordance with the Groups policies and Code of Business Conduct Zero tolerance to violation.
None of EVRAZ and antiprocedures, compliance managers scrutinise current principal EVRAZ Anti-Corruption Policy: bribery tender procedures, check potential and existing risks relate to Anti-corruption training policy business partners, vet prospective new candidates, the aspects of Further Sponsorship and charity policy and ensure that the principles set forth in the anti-corruption.
information: Gifts and business EVRAZ Anti-corruption Policy and Code of Business Anti-corruption entertainment policy and anti-bribery, Conduct are adhered to throughout its operations.
Candidate background see pages 9697 and criminal record checks Conflict of interest policy A short summary Contractor supplier due of relevant anti-corruption diligence checks policies, see page 264 EVRAZ Rules on Securities Dealings Alexander For EVRAZ business model, relationships EVRAZ Strategic Report, as set out Frolov and products, see pages 1415, 4269. on pages 639 inclusive, has been reviewed Chief Executive Officer and was approved by the Board of Directors EVRAZ plc For the Groups related risks and how they on 27 February 2019. are managed, see the Principal risks section 27 February 2019 on pages 2427.
By the order of the Board 39 Business review
