Strategic report 51 Risk management Identifying and managing risk Risk management is an essential element of how we run Experian, to help us deliver long-term shareholder value and to protect our business, people, assets, capital and reputation.
Our risk and control governance structure Board Sets our overarching risk appetite and ensures that we appropriately manage risks across the Group.
The Board delegates oversight of risk management activities to the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee Regularly monitors the principal risks and uncertainties identi ed by our risk assessment processes, along with the strategies weve developed and the actions weve taken, where possible, to mitigate them.
Management also continually reviews the eff ectiveness of our system of risk management and internal controls, which supports our risk identi cation, assessment and reporting.
Executive Risk Management Committee ERMC Comprises senior Group executives, including the executive directors and the Company Secretary.
It oversees how we manage global risks.
The Security and The Assurance The Tax and Treasury The Strategic Project The Regional Risk Continuity Steering Steering Committee Committee oversees Committees ensure Management Committee SCSC ASC is also a management of financial that we appropriately Committees oversee is a sub-committee of sub-committee of the risks, including tax, credit, resource our strategic management of regional the ERMC.
The primary ERMC and oversees liquidity, funding, market projects, and that they risks and feed up to responsibility of the the development and and currency risks.
are risk assessed, the ERMC.
SCSC is to oversee implementation of the and commercially management of global Groups assurance and technically information security, framework.
Depending physical security, and on the outcomes of business continuity risks.
their discussions, the committees conclusions are then considered by the Board or relevant Group Principal Operating Subsidiary for approval.
Group Operating Committee OpCo The Group Operating Committee is made up of our most senior executives.
Its remit includes identifying, debating and achieving consensus on issues involving strategy, risk, growth, people and culture, and operational effi ciency.
Its meetings tend to be focused on the key issues facing the Group.
Executive Management Our executive management takes day-to-day responsibility for implementing the Boards policies on risk management and internal control.
In doing so, it designates who is responsible and accountable through its design and implementation of necessary systems of internal control, including policies, standards and guidance.
Experian plc 52 Strategic report Risk management continued Our risk management framework Risk identi cation and management process The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the eff ectiveness of our risk management activities, from a strategic, Strategic risk Financial risk Operational risk financial and operational perspective.
These Country political Accounting Technology activities are designed to identify and manage, Acquisition Credit Information security rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Competitor Liquidity Physical security achieve business objectives or to successfully Business strategy Market Continuity deliver our business strategy.
Investor relations Currency Third party Public perception People Weve built the risk management framework to Compliance identify, assess, respond, report and monitor Transactions the risks that threaten our ability to achieve our business strategy and objectives, within our risk appetite.
Step 1: Risk Step 2: Risk Step 3: Risk Step 4: Risk Risks are owned and managed within the identi cation assessment response reporting & business, and reviewed by our businesses monitoring at least quarterly.
Global governance teams Consider key Assess Accept or review risks and controls, including those business controls remediate Business unit objectives Estimate current risk relating to information security, regulatory and regional Identify likelihood, and control level compliance and business continuity.
Internal principal risks impact and environment Regional & Audit independently and objectively assesses Identify key velocity Determine ERMC our risks and controls.
The results of these controls Consider corrective Audit reviews feed into our quarterly reporting cycle.
legal, action if Committee reputation needed and conduct exposure Board Audit Committee Executive Management Risk Management Committees First Line Second Line Third Line of Defence of Defence of Defence Lines of business Global Risk Global Internal Audit regional and global Management Experian IT Services Global Security offi ce EITS Compliance Corporate functions Business continuity Physical security Legal All employees have Governance teams have Internal Audit has First line responsibilities Second line responsibilities Third line responsibilities Strategic report 53 Our risk pro le Principal risk pro le Our risk identi cation processes follow a dual approach: A bottom-up approach at a business unit or Bu siness conduct risk L oss or inappropriate use of data and systems country level.
This identi es the risks that Failure to comply with threaten an individual business unit activity laws and regulations New legislation or changes and which the business unit manages.
in regulatory enforcement Non-resilient IT business To give us visibility of issues across the environment Adverse and business, we consolidate these risks at the unpredictable financial regional and global level, and escalate to markets or scal the Risk Management Committees.
developments A top-down approach at the global level.
This identi es the principal risks that threaten the delivery of our strategy.
Un desirable investment Increasing competition The diagram on the right summarises outcomes our principal risk pro le and trends in the Data ownership, threat levels on a net residual risk basis fide pendence on highly access and integrity since the prior reporting period.
skilled personnel LIKELIHOOD Key to risk movement: Increasing Stable Decreasing IMPACT Experian plc 54 Strategic report Risk management continued Risk appetite Future developments Principal risks and uncertainties We assess the level of risk and our associated We continue to re ne our risk management The following pages set out what the risk appetite to ensure we focus appropriately framework to further improve our risk Board believes to be the principal risks on the risks we face.
We target risks for monitoring capabilities.
We have made and uncertainties facing Experian, the assessment based on gross risk and measure signi cant progress in advancing our mitigating actions for each and the them based on net risk using a scoring Three Lines of Defence model.
This will trends in the risk environment during methodology.
We then prioritise risks for further strengthen our business so that we the year ended 31 March 2018. mitigation by considering these scores against continue to deliver competitive, consistent The list is not exhaustive and may change our risk tolerance and appetite.
The Board and and quality solutions to our clients.
during the next financial year, as some risks Audit Committee review the principal risks, We continue to leverage enterprise global may assume greater importance and others of which there are currently 10, on an ongoing risk management software to give managers may become less signi cant.
basis, and the ERMC monitors these risks.
an enhanced tool for monitoring their risks.
The Board has fide ned risk appetites for For the purposes of assessing the Groups The tool also provides live data reporting certain principal risks that Experian faces viability, the directors focused on three across the Group and supports our global during the normal course of business.
We use principal risks which are critical to our governance teams in risk assessment a variety of information sources to show success.
These risks are summarised and reporting.
We continue to develop whether were working within our tolerance below and further discussed in the this software, as we broaden its support for these risks and whether any require Viability statement.
capabilities across various risk additional executive attention.
Loss or inappropriate use of data or systems leading to serious reputational Our risk landscape continues to change Our risk culture and brand damage, legal penalties and as both the business and regulatory The Board is committed to maintaining a class action litigation.
The pace of change strong risk culture that emphasises the and the need for greater visibility across Adverse and unpredictable financial importance of managing risk and encourages the organisation continue to grow and markets or scal developments in one transparent and timely risk reporting across were developing our risk practices to of our major countries of operation, the Group.
We therefore work to align meet these challenges.
resulting in signi cant economic employees behaviours, attitudes and deterioration, currency weakness incentives with our risk appetite and other or restriction.
governance and risk management policies.
Our risk governance process reinforces New legislation or changes in regulatory and facilitates appropriate ownership, enforcement, changing how we operate accountability, escalation and management our business.
This process includes: well-fide ned roles and responsibilities across our Three Lines of Defence model: assigning accountability for risk-taking when making key business decisions: documenting clear boundaries and behavioural expectations in policies and standards: and creating an environment that reinforces adherence and accountability.
Strategic report 55 Principal risks Loss or inappropriate use Potential impact Changes from 2017 Losing or misusing sensitive consumer data could The trend of external cyber security threats to of data and systems cause problems for consumers and result in companies continues to increase, as shown by the We hold and manage sensitive material loss of business, substantial legal liability, reported number and scale of cyber-attacks, including consumer information that increases regulatory enforcement actions and or signi cant a data breach at one of our competitors.
However, our exposure and susceptibility to harm to our reputation.
we continue to accelerate and improve our security cyber-attacks, either directly through capabilities to meet this evolving threat.
Examples of control mitigation our online systems or indirectly Over the past year, we have continued to upgrade our through our partners or third-party We deploy physical and technological security cyber security culture and awareness, and better contractors.
measures, combined with monitoring and alerting aligned our security personnel across our Three Lines for suspicious activities.
V Part of the viability assessment of Defence model.
We have enhanced our protection, detection and response capabilities by strengthening We maintain an information security programme our cyber security policies, practices and training and for identifying, protecting against, detecting and continue to ensure that we apply them consistently responding to cyber security risks and recovering across our regions and business units.
We intend from cyber security incidents.
to continue to invest in the tools, resources and We impose contractual security requirements on initiatives necessary to maintain our global our partners and other third parties who use our information security programme.
data, complemented by periodic reviews of third-party controls.
We maintain insurance coverage, where feasible and appropriate.
Failure to comply with Potential impact Changes from 2017 Non-compliance may result in material litigation, While we face existing regulatory and government laws and regulations including class actions, as well as regulatory actions.
investigations in several jurisdictions, and over the We hold and manage sensitive These could result in civil or criminal liability or past year the number of US class action lawsuits consumer information and must penalties, as well as damage to our reputation.
has increased, the risk of non-compliance remains therefore comply with a range stable as a result of our mitigating controls.
While we Examples of control mitigation of privacy and consumer continue to manage the eff ects associated with these protection laws, regulations investigations and lawsuits, the cost of defending We maintain a compliance management framework and contractual obligations.
litigation continues to rise, and the risk of potential that includes fide ned policies, procedures and liability remains.
controls for Experian employees, business processes, and third parties such as our data resellers.
We assess the appropriateness of using data in new and changing products and services.
We vigorously defend all pending and threatened claims, employing internal and external counsel to eff ectively manage and conclude such proceedings.
We analyse the causes of claims, to identify any potential changes we need to make to our business processes and policies.
Experian plc 56 Strategic report Principal risks continued Non-resilient IT business Potential impact Changes from 2017 A signi cant failure or interruption could have a Throughout the year we experienced isolated events, environment materially adverse eff ect on our business, financial including weather and power disruptions that tested Delivery of our products and performance, financial condition and or our reputation.
services depends on a number of We believe that the overall risk of non-resilient Examples of control mitigation key IT systems and processes that systems is decreasing, due in large part to continued expose our clients, consumers We maintain a signi cant level of resilience in enhancements to our global integrated business and businesses to serious our operations, designed to avoid material and continuity framework and advancements in our disruption in the event of systems sustained disruption to our businesses, clients application architecture framework.
Where applicable, we have either enhanced or We design applications to be resilient and with a commenced training of our key responders and balance between longevity, sustainability and speed.
continue to perform periodic exercises to validate that our documented global business continuity and crisis We maintain a global integrated business continuity management procedures are t for purpose.
We have framework that includes industry-appropriate designed our applications using a build anywhere, policies, procedures and controls for all our deploy anywhere strategy, to support portability and systems and related processes, as well as ongoing maximum resilience.
Our approach to asset lifecycle review, monitoring and escalation activities.
management helps ensure that we retire and replace We duplicate information in our databases and our technology in a timely fashion.
Business conduct risk Potential impact Changes from 2017 Consumers or clients could receive inappropriate While regulators have continued to put public trust Our business model is designed to products or not have access to appropriate products, and consumer and investor protection at the centre create long-term value for people, resulting in material loss of business, substantial legal of their mission statements and promote prudent businesses and society through our liability, regulatory enforcement actions or signi cant conduct risk management, we believe our mitigation data assets and innovative analytics harm to our reputation.
eff orts have stabilised the overall risk to Experian.
Inappropriate execution of our business strategies Examples of control mitigation or activities could adversely aff ect our We maintain appropriate governance and oversight clients, consumers or counterparties.
that include policies, procedures and controls designed to safeguard personal data, avoid detriment to consumers, provide consumercentric product design and delivery, and eff ectively respond to enquiries and complaints.
These activities also support a robust conduct risk management framework.
We enforce our Global Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy and Gifts and Hospitality Policy.
If we believe employees or suppliers are not following our conduct standards, we will investigate thoroughly and take disciplinary action where appropriate.
Strategic report 57 Dependence on highly Potential impact Changes from 2017 Not having the right people could materially aff ect our We have taken steps to eff ectively manage our ability skilled personnel ability to service our clients and grow our business.
to attract, develop and retain employee talent and Our success depends on the ability believe our mitigation eff orts have stabilised the Examples of control mitigation to attract, motivate and retain key overall risk to Experian.
talent and build future leadership.
In every region, we have ongoing recruitment, We continue to monitor employee engagement through personal and career development, and talent a variety of channels, and have been implementing identi cation and development programmes.
the action plans from our last Global People Survey.
We conducted a Global Pulse Survey in December As part of our employee listening survey, we 2017 and we are now tracking progress against conduct an annual people survey and a Pulse action plans.
Survey six months later and we track progress against our action plans.
Voluntary attrition rates have decreased over the past year, but continue to be a focus for us as the labour We off er competitive compensation and bene ts market in the USA and the UK is tightening.
In the UK, and review them regularly.
the impact on free movement of labour resulting from We actively monitor attrition rates, with a focus Brexit may pose a risk, but the impact remains unclear on individuals designated as high talent or in at this stage.
We have deployed a Brexit response strategically important roles.
programme and steering committee: and as more information on the impact of Brexit for both Experian and our employees becomes available, we will consider what action we need to take to address those impacts.
Talent, succession planning and reward remain key initiatives, and our Global Talent Acquisition team is working hard to enhance recruitment practices and outcomes across the business.
For further information on our succession and retention programmes please refer to the Our people and corporate responsibility section.
Potential impact Changes from 2017 Adverse and unpredictable The US, UK and Brazil markets are signi cant Global and regional economic trends and forecasts financial markets or scal contributors to our revenue.
A reduction in one or continue to in uence our capital allocation and developments more of these consumer and business credit services calculated returns.
Recent developments in tax markets could reduce our revenue and pro t. legislation in some of our key markets have stabilised We operate globally and our results the overall risk to Experian.
We bene t from the strengthening of currencies could be aff ected by global, regional relative to the US dollar and are adversely aff ected The Brazilian real remains weak and volatile by historic or national changes in scal or by currencies weakening relative to it.
standards, creating a drag on Group revenue.
continue to monitor the Brazilian economy and in ation We have outstanding debt denominated principally in A substantial change in credit markets to determine the impact on our business results, and euros, pounds sterling and US dollars.
As this debt in the US, the UK or Brazil could note that the positive data Provisional Measure could matures, we may need to replace it with borrowings reduce our financial performance and prove bene cial by allowing Serasa Experian to be at higher interest rates.
growth potential in those countries.
a more comprehensive bureau with signi cant Earnings could be reduced and tax payments We present our Group financial positive and negative data.
The UK may experience increased either as a result of settling historical tax statements in US dollars.
However, recessionary pressures as a result of Brexit and the positions or increases in our eff ective tax rates.
we transact business in a number pound sterling may come under further pressure as of currencies.
Changes in other Adverse publicity around tax could damage our the implications of Brexit become clearer.
currencies relative to the US dollar reputation.
In December 2017 the US administration passed aff ect our financial results.
We expect the eff ect Examples of control mitigation A substantial rise in US, EU or UK of the reduction in the headline tax rate will be broadly interest rates could increase our We have a diverse portfolio by geography, product, off set by the reduction in availability of tax deductions future cost of borrowings.
We provide counter-cyclical for interest and other Group costs.
Serasa Experian products and services.
was successful in its challenge against the Brazil tax We are subject to complex and authorities for the deduction of the initial goodwill evolving tax laws and interpretations, We convert cash balances in foreign currencies into amortisation arising from its acquisition by Experian which may change signi cantly.
Historic UK tax disputes may come to final changes may increase our eff ective We x the interest rates on a proportion of our decisions in scal years 2019 or 2020. tax rates in the future.
about the application of these laws Following publication of the Organisation for We retain internal and external tax professionals, may also result in diff erent outcomes Economic Co-operation and Development OECD who regularly monitor developments in from the amounts we provide.
G20 Base Erosion and Pro t Shifting BEPS actions, international tax and assess the impact of governments are continuing to review tax laws and tax Experian has a number of outstanding changes and diff ering outcomes.
treatment in many jurisdictions where we do business.
tax matters and resolving them Tax authorities continue to adopt longer and more could have a substantial impact formal processes to agree signi cant outstanding on our financial statements, cash matters, and in some cases are challenging or and reputation.
V Part of the viability assessment Experian plc 58 Strategic report Principal risks continued New legislation or changes Potential impact Changes from 2017 We may suff er increased costs or reduced revenue New laws, new interpretations of existing laws, in regulatory enforcement resulting from modi ed business practices, adopting changes to existing regulations and regulatory scrutiny We operate in an increasingly complex new procedures, self-regulation and or litigation or continue to increase, especially in the wake of a data environment, in which many of our regulatory actions resulting in liability or fines.
breach at a competitor and other rms.
activities and services are subject Increasing regulation by the UK Financial Conduct Examples of control mitigation to legal and regulatory in uences.
Authority FCA, uncertainty in the direction of the US New laws, new interpretations of We use internal and external resources to monitor Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFPB, and existing laws, changes to existing planned and realised changes in legislation.
various federal and state legislative actions in Brazil, regulations and or heightened may aff ect our access to data, increase our costs, We educate lawmakers, regulators, consumer and regulatory scrutiny could aff ect how and require us to modify our products or reduce privacy advocates, industry trade groups, our clients we operate.
For example, future our revenue.
and other stakeholders in the public policy debate.
regulatory changes could impact The data breach at a competitor may result in Our global compliance team has region-speci c how we collect and use consumer additional laws and regulations related to credit regulatory expertise and works with our information for marketing, risk freezes and other security-related matters.
businesses to identify and adopt balanced management and fraud detection.
In the UK and Ireland and in Europe, General Data Regulatory changes could impact how Protection Regulation GDPR is expected to take we serve Consumer Services clients We execute our Compliance Management eff ect in May 2018 and is intended to provide greater or how we market services to clients Programme, which directs the structure, transparency and control for consumers.
documentation, tools and training requirements to support compliance on an ongoing basis.
In Brazil, federal and state public prosecutors continue V Part of the viability assessment to bring actions that emphasise their regulatory focus in areas such as use of marketing and enquiry data, and restrictions on utility default data.
Increasing competition Potential impact Changes from 2017 Price reductions may reduce our margins and financial While the competitive risk to our business remains Our competitive landscape continues results.
Increased competition may reduce our market high, we believe our mitigation eff orts have stabilised to evolve, with traditional players share, harm our ability to obtain new clients or retain the overall risk to Experian.
We remain proactive in reinventing themselves, emerging existing ones, aff ect our ability to recruit talent and can our eff orts to evaluate competitors and markets, and players investing heavily and new in uence our investment decisions.
We might also be pursue investments and enhancements to our data, entrants making large commitments unable to support changes in the way our businesses analytics and technology where appropriate.
in new technologies or new and clients use and purchase information, aff ecting our During the past year our established competitors approaches to our markets, including operating results.
have been strengthening their data assets and marketing, consumer services, and underlying technology, including pursuing acquisitions business and consumer credit Examples of control mitigation of non-traditional data sources to round out their information.
There is a risk that we We continue to research and invest in new data off erings.
We have responded by understanding will not respond adequately to such sources, people, technology and products to support emerging business models in our core markets and disruptions or that our products and our strategic plan.
invested in speci c plans to respond.
We have also services will fail to meet changing strengthened our competitive intelligence and strategy We carry out detailed competitive and market client and consumer preferences.
capabilities, and enhanced our eff orts to identify analyses.
investment opportunities in early-stage industry We continue to develop new products that leverage and technology companies.
our scale and allow us to deploy capabilities in new Our Consumer Services business in the USA continues and existing markets and geographies.
to face competition from traditional competitors as We u se rigorous processes to identify and select our well as alternative freemium providers.
We have development investments, so we can eff ectively responded by investing in our core capabilities as introduce new products and services to the market.
well as diversifying our business model through the Where appropriate, we make acquisitions, take introduction of new paid-for and free off ers.
In the UK, minority investments and enter into strategic we have responded to the evolving market with our alliances in order to acquire new capabilities and own free score off er and recently announced plans enter into new markets.
to acquire ClearScore to further enhance our value proposition.
Finally, we continue to monitor the group of major banks in Brazil that have agreed to build a new credit intelligence bureau that will include positive data.
This entity will partner with other rms to provide technology infrastructure and support to the bureau.
Strategic report 59 Data ownership, access Potential impact Changes from 2017 Our ability to provide products and services to our The overall trend in data collection, aggregation and and integrity clients could be aff ected, leading to a materially use restrictions remains stable.
Our business model depends on our adverse impact on our business, reputation and or Consumer advocates and regulators in various ability to collect, aggregate, analyse operating results.
jurisdictions are focused on driving changes and and use consumer and client restrictions on data collection, aggregation and use Examples of control mitigation information.
There is a risk that we based on consumer privacy concerns, including may not have access to data because We monitor legislative and regulatory initiatives, providing greater transparency and control options of consumer privacy and data and educate lawmakers, regulators, consumer and for consumers.
In the USA, the CFPB has focused on accuracy concerns, or data providers privacy advocates, industry trade groups, clients data security matters in the wake of the data breach being unable or unwilling to provide and other stakeholders in the public policy debate.
at a competitor, and there continues to be negative their data to us or imposing a diff erent press surrounding the accuracy of credit bureau data.
We use standardised selection, negotiation and fee structure for using their data.
In the UK and Ireland and in Europe, GDPR is intended contracting of provider agreements, to address to provide greater transparency and control for delivery assurance, reliability and protections consumers.
In some instances, data providers are relating to critical service provider relationships.
looking to further monetise the data they provide.
Our legal contracts fide ne how we can use data Momentum towards reporting positive data continues and provide services.
in some countries and we continue to advance the We analyse data to make sure we receive the importance and value of positive data in countries highest quality and best value.
such as Brazil, India and Australia.
We have signi cant programmes ongoing to enhance data accuracy and security.
Undesirable investment Potential impact Changes from 2017 Failure to successfully implement our key business We believe our mitigation eff orts have stabilised the outcomes strategies could have a materially adverse eff ect on overall risk to Experian of undesirable investment We critically evaluate and may our ability to achieve our growth targets.
invest in acquisitions and other Poorly executed business acquisitions or partnerships We utilise an economic returns framework for both growth opportunities, including could result in material loss of business, increased organic and inorganic investments, which focuses internal performance improvement costs, reduced revenue, substantial legal liability, on risk-adjusted investment hurdles.
We are also programmes, any of which may regulatory enforcement actions and or signi cant implementing policies and standards that will apply not produce the desired financial harm to our reputation.
minimum requirements to our acquisition and or operating results.
integration processes, including enhanced information Examples of control mitigation security requirements.
We a nalyse competitive threats to our business We continue to analyse competitive threats to model and markets.
We carry out comprehensive our business model and markets, and will take business reviews.
advantage of strategic partnerships and invest in new technologies where appropriate.
We perform due diligence and post-investment reviews on acquisitions and partnerships.
We employ a rigorous capital allocation framework.
We analyse competitive threats to our business model and markets.
We design our incentive programmes to optimise shareholder value through delivery of balanced, sustainable returns and a sound risk pro le over the long term.
