Principal Risks and Future Prospects Each year the Board carries out a comprehensive, robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that could threaten the Companys success.
The consequences for its business model, liquidity, future prospects and viability form an integral part of this assessment.
The principal risks, both perceived and observed, together with their The principal risks identified as most relevant to the assessment of mitigations are set out in the table below.
The Boards processes for the Companys future prospects and viability were those relating to monitoring them are set out on pages 42 and 43 and in note inappropriate business strategy, potential investment portfolio under- 24 on the accounts.
The risks that affect the Companys ongoing performance and its effect on share price discount premium and operations as well as the threats to security over the Companys dividends, as well as threats to security over the Companys assets.
assets may vary in significance from time to time.
The risks are unchanged from those reported in the prior year.
Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken on Principal Risks in the year Errors, fraud or control failures at service providers The Board receives regular control reports from F&C covering risk and compliance, The Audit and Management Engagement Committee regularly reviews the or loss of data through business continuity failure or including oversight of third party service providers.
The Board has access to F&Cs Company's risk management framework with the assistance of the Manager.
Head of Business Risk and BMOs Group Information Security Officer, International cyber attacks could damage reputation or investors Supervision of third party service providers has been maintained by F&C and and requires any significant issues directly relevant to the Company to be reported interests or result in loss.
Cyber risks remain includes assurances regarding IT security and increasing cyber threats.
The Depositary is specifically liable for loss of any of the Companys heightened.
Board received a presentation from the Custodian during the year on its own securities and cash held in custody.
The Depositary reported to the Board quarterly on its oversight of custody of investments and cash and raised no matters of concern Unchanged throughout the year for the Company.
The Board has engaged with the Manager and Registrar to under review ensure that the new General Data Protection Regulations are being properly and The Board also monitors efficiency of service providers processes fully implemented for the safeguarding of all personal data held by the Company.
An inappropriate business strategy or policy, or The Board regularly reviews overall strategy and in considering investment policy The Board continually measures the Manager's investment performance against ineffective implementation, could result in poor reviews reports from the Manager at each Board meeting.
The Board assesses the Key Performance Indicators set out on page 13 and is satisfied that the returns for shareholders.
investor needs through targeted research and marketing, the effectiveness of Manager's long-term performance remains in line with expectations.
The Lead which is kept under continuous review.
The Manager structures its recruitment and Managers review on pages 16 to 23 explains the changes to the portfolio remuneration packages in order to retain key staff and works closely with the Board on in the year.
Marketing campaigns continued throughout the year, including Unchanged throughout the year any significant management changes.
The Managers appointment can be terminated promotion across financial and other relevant websites and publications.
under review at six months notice.
Performance KPIs are monitored by the Board A significant share price discount or premium to the The Board has established share buyback and share issue policies, together with a The Companys share price traded at a premium to diluted NAV for most of the Companys diluted NAV per share, or related volatility, dividend policy, in order to moderate the level of share price discount or premium to year.
Shares were issued regularly at a moderate premium to diluted NAV to the diluted NAV per share and related volatility and seeks shareholder approval each satisfy demand from investors.
could lead to high levels of uncertainty or speculation year for the necessary powers to implement these policies.
and the potential to reduce investor confidence.
The Companys premium discount is a KPI measured by the Board on an Unchanged throughout the year ongoing basis under review 14 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T Through a series of connected stress tests based on historical Five Year Horizon information, but forward looking over the five years commencing 1 May 2018, the Board assessed the risks of: Based on its assessment and evaluation of the potential illiquidity of the Companys portfolio: Companys future prospects, the Board has a the effects of any substantial future falls in investment values and reasonable expectation that the Company will be able income receipts on the ability to repay the CULS and potential to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as breach of CULS covenants: and they fall due over the coming five years.
This period is significant falls in income on the ability to continue paying consistent with advice, provided by many investment steadily-rising dividends and maintaining adequate reserves and advisers, that investors should invest in equities for the retention of investors.
The Companys business The Board also took into consideration the perceived viability of its model, strategy and the embedded characteristics principal service providers, potential effects of anticipated regulatory listed below have helped define and maintain the changes and the potential threat from competition.
The Boards stability of the Company over many decades.
The conclusions are set out under the Five Year Horizon opposite.
Board expects this to continue over the next five years and many more to come.
The Company has a long-term investment strategy under which it invests mainly in readily realisable, publicly listed securities and which restricts the level of borrowings.
The Companys business model and strategy are not Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken on Principal Risks in the year time limited and, as a global investment trust, are unlikely to be adversely impacted as a direct result of Errors, fraud or control failures at service providers The Board receives regular control reports from F&C covering risk and compliance, The Audit and Management Engagement Committee regularly reviews the Brexit and other political uncertainties.
or loss of data through business continuity failure or including oversight of third party service providers.
The Company is inherently structured for long-term Head of Business Risk and BMOs Group Information Security Officer, International cyber attacks could damage reputation or investors Supervision of third party service providers has been maintained by F&C and outperformance, rather than short-term opportunities, and requires any significant issues directly relevant to the Company to be reported interests or result in loss.
The with five years considered as a sensible time-frame immediately.
Board received a presentation from the Custodian during the year on its own for measuring and assessing long-term investment securities and cash held in custody.
The Depositary reported to the Board quarterly on its performance.
oversight of custody of investments and cash and raised no matters of concern The Company is able to take advantage of its closedfor the Company.
The Board has engaged with the Manager and Registrar to end investment trust structure.
ensure that the new General Data Protection Regulations are being properly and The Board also monitors efficiency of service providers processes fully implemented for the safeguarding of all personal data held by the Company.
The Company has put in place borrowing arrangements and has the potential to secure additional finance in excess of five years.
An inappropriate business strategy or policy, or The Board regularly reviews overall strategy and in considering investment policy The Board continually measures the Manager's investment performance against Regular and robust review of revenue and expenditure ineffective implementation, could result in poor reviews reports from the Manager at each Board meeting.
investor needs through targeted research and marketing, the effectiveness of forecasts is undertaken throughout the year against a Manager's long-term performance remains in line with expectations.
The Manager structures its recruitment and backdrop of large revenue and capital reserves.
Managers review on pages 16 to 23 explains the changes to the portfolio remuneration packages in order to retain key staff and works closely with the Board on in the year.
Marketing campaigns continued throughout the year, including The Company retains title to all assets held by the any significant management changes.
Custodian which are subject to further safeguards at six months notice.
On behalf of the Board The Companys premium discount is a KPI measured by the Board on an Anthony Townsend ongoing basis Chairman 19 June 2018 Report and Accounts 2018 | 15
