Principal risks and their management Risk management at Ferguson Monitoring risk throughout the Group The Board is accountable for the system of risk management atFerguson.
The Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee review risks and controls in the context of the Groups strategic plan and objectives.
Throughout the year, information is provided directly from front line operations, via corporate functions and independent audits.
Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee Fourth level Principal risks formally reviewed every six months by the Board and Executive.
Associate whistleblowing line Audit reports throughout the year Thresholds for principal risks agreed.
Overall system of risk management reviewed by the Audit Committee onbehalfof the Board.
Performance reports Risk reports in March and September Corporate functions analyse Audit findings inform riskand control data, assessments of control setpoliciesand procedures effectiveness by Group Risk Operations report on Reports from Group Risk riskandcontrol status and inform audit priorities and submit performance reports plans for the coming year Front line business operations Corporate functions Independent assurance and linemanagement e. g. branches and distribution centres Group and subsidiary level, Internal audit, external auditors and e. g. risk, treasury, finance, legal, tax and IT other independent experts First level Second level Third level Business operations implement policies.
Test the design and effectiveness of procedures and controls.
Associates act in line with Fergusons Monitor risks and controls.
Codeof Conduct and Group policies.
Collate and submit risk reports.
44 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Assessment of viability Risk analysis during the year Whilst the strategic plans represent the Boards best estimates of the 2017 18 risk and control assessments future prospects of the business, the Group has also assessed the Ferguson formally reviews its principal Group and business unit financial impact of a number of alternative scenarios.
risksevery six months at the half-year and at the year-end.
Scenario Modelled Link to principal risks In January and July 2018, the Board provided its perspective onrisksrelating to the Groups strategy for 2018 19 and beyond.
Scenario 1 New competitors The Boards assessment was then combined with bottom-up risk Revenue reduction andtechnology reports received from business units in February and August 2018 We considered a number of forward-looking scenarios under which forecast revenue was toproduce an overall risk profile and report for the Group.
Market conditions adversely impacted in all years of the assessment period.
This was considered alongside mitigating This risk report, listing principal and emerging risks and how Talent management actions which management could reasonably put theyhave changed, was reviewed, amended and finalised with the andretention in place should such conditions be experienced.
Executive Committee in March and September 2018.
The mitigation Scenario 2 in place for each principal risk was then reported to and reviewed Pressure on margins Margin compression bythe Audit Committee in March and September.
A number of scenarios were considered whereby Throughout the year, members of the Board, Audit Committee our ability to maintain attractive margins was tested.
This was considered both in isolation and Executive Committee have received updates on the andin conjunction with a fall in revenue.
Groupsprincipalrisks, as follows: Scenario 3 Information technology Risk Updates provided Large, one-off operational expense We considered the impact of any potential legal Formal update provided to the Board in A New competitors Health and safety orregulatory fines.
Related risks considered andtechnology bythe Board in January and July 2018 Regulations andby the Executive team.
Monthly performance reviews with Market conditions Whilst linked to the Groups principal risk factors the scenarios B CEOandCFO.
CEO update to the detailed above are hypothetical and designed to test the ability of Boardateach Board meeting.
C Pressure on margins the Group to withstand such severe outcomes.
In practice the Group Reports on the status of the Groups Information has an established series of risk control measures in place thatare D information technology strategy and technology designed to both prevent and mitigate the impact of any such operational risks were provided to the occurrences from taking place.
Executive Committee and the Board and the Audit Committee throughout the year.
In each of the scenarios considered the Directors have made Performance updates were provided E Health and safety practical assumptions around the Groups ability to raise future atevery Executive Committee and Boardmeeting during the year.
In addition, the testing took account of a number of mitigating actions available to the business to respond to the The status of the Groups anti-bribery F Regulations programme was reported to the risk being considered including, but not limited to, reductions in AuditCommittee in January 2018. operational and capital expenditure, the release of trade working The Board, supported by the Nominations G Talent management capital and reductions in acquisition activity.
The results of the stress and Audit Committees, has received and retention testing undertaken showed that the Group would be able to absorb detailed updates throughout the year fromleadership teams around the Group.
the impact of the scenarios considered should they occur within the Reported on tax risks and future reforms assessment time period.
Macro political H to the Audit Committee in September 2017 taxrisk Viability statement and March 2018.
Based on the outcomes of the scenarios and considering the Longer-term viability of the Group Groups financial position, strategic plans and principal risks, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able Building on this risk analysis, the Directors have assessed the to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over Groups prospects and viability in light of its current financial position, the period of their assessment.
The Directors statement regarding strategic plan and principal risks.
The Board believes that a threethe adoption of the going concern basis for the preparation of the year viability assessment period to July 2021 is appropriate as this financial statements can be found on page 68. aligns to the Groups planning horizon.
Furthermore, the Groups principal risks are ongoing in nature and could materialise at any UK withdrawal from the European Union time.
None are triggered by a specific, known event that will happen beyond that three-year timeframe.
Forecasting beyond the threeThe UK leaving the European Union EU continues to produce some year timeframe does not therefore provide additional accuracy market uncertainties including volatility in the sterling exchange rate orrisk insight.
From 2018 the Group changed the presentation of its financial statements from sterling to US dollars which has greatly The Groups strategic approach is described on pages 16 to reduced the impact of foreign exchange rate movements, most notably 20.
Strategic plans have been prepared by business units and sterling, on reported revenue and trading profit.
Since the large majority financial forecasts and budgets have been reviewed by the Board.
of the Groups profit is derived from North America, the Group does not The principal risks to the Groups strategy were formally reviewed envisage a material adverse impact from sterling vs US dollar exchange by the Board and the Executive team in January and July 2018. rates in the future.
There is a risk that leaving the EU adversely affects Consideration has also been given to the strength of the Groups domestic demand which could have a negative impact on the business.
balance sheet and its credit facilities.
In addition, disruption in the financial markets could adversely affect the share price.
The Group will continue tomonitor developments.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Principal risks and their management The materialisation of these risks could have an adverse effect Heat map on the Groups results or financial condition.
If more than one of after mitigating controls and actions these risks occur, the combined overall effect of such events may be compounded.
The heat map below illustrates the relative positioning of our principal risks by severity and likelihood.
There are two risks that are no longer included in the list of principal risks.
Following the disposal of the Stark building materials business, our Strategic change risk has decreased.
Litigation risk has also declined due to smaller footprint in the EU and tort reform efforts in the US.
Litigation and Strategic change risks continue to be monitored.
Principal risks After mitigating controls or actions New competitors The chart shows managements assessment of material risks before A and technology mitigating controls and actions.
Various strategies are employed F to reduce these inherent risks to an acceptable level.
These are Market B conditions summarised in the tables on the following pages.
A H Pressure C The effectiveness of these mitigation strategies can change over D on margins time, for example with the acquisition or disposal of businesses.
Information D Some of these risks remain beyond the direct control of B C technology management.
The risk management programme, including risk Health and E assessments, can therefore only provide reasonable but not absolute safety G E assurance that risks are managed to an acceptable level.
Regulations F The Group faces many other risks which, although important and Talent G subject to regular review, have been assessed as less significant and management are not listed here.
These include, for example, natural catastrophe and retention Less likely More likely and business interruption risks and certain financial risks.
A summary Likelihood Macro political H of financial risks and their management is provided on page 33. tax risk Risks to the drivers of profitable growth The symbols shown at the bottom of this page are displayed alongside each risk on the following pages to indicate which ofthestrategic drivers of growth are most threatened by that risk.
A Risk is unchanged New competitors and technology Inherent risk level Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation High Wholesale and distribution A dedicated team and increased The Group develops and invests in new businesses in other industry sectors resources were allocated to the business models, including e-commerce, Trend have been disrupted by the arrival exploration and incubation of to respond to changing customer and No change of new competitors with lower-cost new business models and new consumer needs.
This will allow the Group transactional business models or technologies.
The creation of to accelerate the time to market for new new technologies to aggregate Ferguson Ventures allows us revenue streams and gain insight on new demand away from incumbents.
to partner with start ups and disruptive technologies and trends.
our innovation lab explores The Board is attuned to both the The Group remains vigilant to the emerging technologies.
risks and opportunities presented threats and opportunities in this space.
by these changes and is actively One example, Ferguson The development of new business engaged as the Group takes action Ventures partnership with GTP models in our market place is closely to respond.
Services, is set out on page 19. evaluated both for investment potential and threats.
Key to drivers of profitable growth Operating model and All nine of our drivers Engaged associates Organic expansion All e-commerce development of profitable growth Excellent service ethic Bolt-on acquisitions Pricing discipline Strong sales culture Adjacent opportunities Own brand penetration 46 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Severity Low Medium High Strategic report Governance Financials Other information B Risk is unchanged Market conditions Inherent risk level Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation High This risk relates to the Groups The Group has maintained The Group cannot control market exposure to short-term a strong balance sheet conditions but believes it has effective Trend macroeconomic conditions throughout the year and other measures in place to respond to changes.
No change andmarket cycles in our sector measures have been taken to Ferguson continues to reinforce existing i. e. periodic market downturns.
manage the cost base in line measures in place, including: with forecast growth.
Some of the factors driving market the development of our growth are beyond the Groups The Group has again tested its business model: control and are difficult to forecast.
financial forecasts, including cost control, pricing and gross margin cash flow projections, against Further information on the management initiatives, including the impact of a severe market markettrends can be found in a focus on customer service and downturn.
See page 45. ourregional reviews on pages 34 productivity improvement: to 39.
The UKs withdrawal from the resource allocation processes: and European Union continues to capital expenditure controls create a level of uncertainty and procedures.
affecting the UK economy, although this is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
C Risk is unchanged Pressure on margins Inherent risk level Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation High The Groups ability to maintain Pressure on margins remained The Groups strategy for tackling this attractive profit margins can be high during the period under issue remains unchanged.
This includes Trend affected by a range of factors.
review, primarily due to levels continuous improvements in customer No change These include levels of demand of competition.
service, product availability and and competition in our markets, the inventory management.
Revenues from In response, the Group has arrival of new competitors withnew e-commerce and other growth sectors continued to manage its cost business models, the flexibility of continue to expand and the Group base in line with changes the Groups cost base, changes in has made acquisitions in these areas in expected growth rates.
the cost of commodities or goods during 2017 18.
Refer to page 134 for Business unit performance, purchased, customer or supplier more information on acquisitions during including margins achieved, consolidation or manufacturers the year.
were monitored on a monthly shipping directly to customers.
The performance of each business unit is There is a risk that the Group may closely monitored and corrective action Ongoing gross margin was 30 not identify or respond effectively taken when appropriate.
basis points ahead with growth to changes in these factors.
If it driven by improved product Resource allocation processes invest fails to do so, the amount of profit mix and procurement in USA, capital in those businesses capable of generated by the Group could Canada and Central Europe.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Principal risks and their management D Risk has been added to the listoftop Group risks this year Information technology Inherent risk level Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation High With the appointment of a new IT risks have remained material Business leadership is implementing a Chief Information Officer, the Group and are being closely monitored comprehensive change management Trend now has a clearly defined global as we implement the global programme designed to transition current New technology strategy and roadmap technology strategy and business practices and norms to adopt see page 27. roadmap see page 27. new business capabilities.
Technology systems and data A new Chief Information Officer A Business Technology Centre are fundamental to the future and Chief Information Security of Excellence is in place to drive growth and success of the Group.
Officer have been appointed organisational discipline around the Information Technology IT risks during the year.
prioritisation of business projects to are categorised as strategic ensure alignment with Fergusons The IT function has been and operational.
reorganised to align resources Strategic risks are threats that could and focus on the strategic plan.
An assessment of information security prevent execution of the IT strategic capabilities is underway with the intent Internal Audit and IT are plan such as inadequate leadership, of driving a rolling three-year global partnering to transition IT poor allocation management of roadmap of investments in processes, General Control testing to resources and or poor execution resources and technical defences Internal Audit.
of the organisational change of necessary to continuously address Briefings on the status of management necessary to adopt emerging security threats.
the Groups IT strategy were and apply new business processes.
Group level compliance processes provided to the Board, the Audit Operational risks include business continue to remain in place.
Committee and the Executive disruption resulting from system Committee throughout the year.
Disaster recovery systems, secondary failures, fraud or criminal activity.
data centres, resources and processes Regular Board update This includes security threats have been implemented to ensure checkpoints have been and or failures in the ability of the business critical systems are recoverable established to provide organisation to operate, recover in the event of a major disaster.
Testing of monitoring and oversight and restore operations after such critical infrastructure and application of execution of the IT disruptions.
While cyber security systems are in place and have been strategic plan.
threats have resulted in minimal consistently executed across the Group.
impact to date, this risk continues to Insurance coverage is in place, including persist and evolve.
data protection and cyber liability.
E Risk is unchanged Health and safety Inherent risk level Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation Medium The nature of Fergusons operations A new Vice President of Health Leadership of health and safety is can expose its associates, and Safety joined this year.
Health and safety performance is Trend contractors, customers, suppliers The Group has developed a reported to and discussed at all Executive No change and other individuals to health and functional strategic plan with Committee and Board meetings.
clear objectives to address The Group maintains a health and safety performance challenges.
Health and safety incidents can lead policy and detailed minimum standard, The hiring and deploying of to loss of life or severe injuries.
which sets out requirements which all health and safety professionals Ferguson businesses are expected to in the field will provide meet.
Branches are audited against this businesses with technical standard.
Businesses are implementing resources to more effectively key changes to transform our culture mitigate risk.
The overall which are summarised on pages 25 performance across the and 26.
Group is showing a slight improvement.
Key to drivers of profitable growth Operating model and All nine of our drivers Engaged associates Organic expansion All e-commerce development of profitable growth Excellent service ethic Bolt-on acquisitions Pricing discipline Strong sales culture Adjacent opportunities Own brand penetration 48 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information F Risk is unchanged Regulations Inherent risk level Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation High The Groups operations are affected The most significant change in The Group monitors the law across its by various statutes, regulations the level of regulation applying markets to ensure the effects of changes Trend and standards in the countries to the Group this year is the are minimised and the Group complies No change and markets in which it operates.
EUs adoption of the General with all applicable laws.
The amount of such regulation and Data Protection Regulation The Group aligns company-wide the penalties can vary.
The Group has adopted policies and procedures with its key procedures and controls While the Group is not engaged in a compliance requirements and monitors required by the legislation to highly regulated industry, itissubject their implementation.
to the laws governing businesses Briefings and training on mandatory generally, including laws relating to Anti-bribery and anti-corruption topics and compliance requirements competition, product safety, data practices in all businesses were including anti-trust, anti-bribery and protection, labour and employment reviewed during the year and corruption are undertaken.
practices, accounting and tax the findings reported to the standards, international trade, fraud, Executive Committee and to the bribery and corruption, land usage, Audit Committee.
the environment, health and safety, Further information on the transportation and other matters.
Groups ethics and compliance Violations of certain laws and programme can be found on regulations may result in significant page 26. fines and penalties and damage to the Groups reputation.
G Risk is unchanged Talent management and retention Inherent risk level Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation Medium As the Group develops new There has been no material All of the Groups businesses have business models and new ways of change in the level of associate established performance management Trend working, it needs todevelop suitable turnover during the year: and succession planning procedures.
No change skill-sets within the organisation.
however a number of senior Reward packages for associates management changes have are designed to attract and retain All Furthermore, as the Group continues occurred throughout the thebest talent.
to execute a number ofstrategic Group.
These have included change programmes, it is important New Group Chief Financial Officer and the appointment of key Group that existing skill-sets and talent new CEO, USA transitions complete.
Services roles and a new are retained.
A new talent review process will be Managing Director and Chief Failure to do so could delay the launched across the Group.
Financial Officer of Wolseley UK.
execution of strategic change The Group continues to invest in Talent management procedures programmes, result in a loss of associate development.
were reviewed during the year.
corporate memory andreduce the Groups supply offuture leaders.
H Risk has been added to the listoftop Group risks this year Macro political tax risk Inherent risk level Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation High The wider macro political and Group Tax has allocated further The Group is engaged with the relevant economic situation is uncertain resources to ensure the macro tax authorities to proactively assess any Trend in many of the territories in which political uncertainties are being proposed changes in tax policy.
New Ferguson operates and changes appropriately monitored and Once policy changes are fully assessed could affect the Groups future tax mitigation plans updated when the Group will ensure any changes are rate.
A combination of growing the need arises.
reflected in Fergusons tax strategy.
international trade pressures, withdrawal of quantitative easing by central banks and rising debt levels, is creating political uncertainty which could lead to changes to the prevailing tax regime.
As a result, we anticipate that the effective tax rate may increase over the medium term.
The Strategic report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: John Martin Group Chief Executive Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Governance 51 Governance overview 52 Board of Directors 54 Fergusons governance structure 55 What the Board has done duringtheyear 56 How the Board operates We remain committed to 58 Evaluating the performance oftheBoard of Directors achieving high standards 59 Relations with shareholders andother stakeholders of corporate governance 60 Nominations Committee both in the boardroom and 62 Audit Committee throughout the Group.
67 Directors Report otherdisclosures Gareth Davis 70 Directors Remuneration Report Chairman 74 2018 Remuneration Policy 86 Annual report on remuneration Drivers of profitable growth On the following pages the symbols below indicate wheretheactivity of the Board and its Committees  growth set out in theGroupChief Executives reviewon page 16.
Fulfilling customer wants Engaged associates Excellent service ethic Strong sales culture Attractive growth opportunities Organic expansion Bolt-on acquisitions Adjacent opportunities Excellent execution Operating model and e-commerce development Pricing discipline Own brand penetration All nine of our drivers All ofprofitable growth Compliance with the Code Throughout the financial year ended 31 July 2018, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP, are required to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
Gareth Davis A copy of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council Chairman website www.
50 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
