Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 36 RISK MANAGEMENT Approach It also oversees how management monitors The Group has The Groups risk management processes compliance with risk management provide a framework to support the policies and procedures, with assistance established risk identification, prioritisation and from the Group internal audit function management of the risks involved in the which conducts ad-hoc reviews of risk management and Companys activities.
It is not and cannot management controls and procedures be designed to eliminate risk, particularly in as part of its annual programme of work.
internal control systems an emerging market economy.
Ferrexpos For more information relating to the Audit risk management policies and procedures Committees monitoring and assessment which support the have been established to identify and of the effectiveness of the risk management analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set and internal control systems, see the identification, appropriate limits and controls and take Audit Committee Report on page 71. relevant mitigating actions where understanding and considered by the Board of Ferrexpo and The Finance and Risk Management its executive management to be beneficial.
Committee oversees the centralised mitigation of the key financial risk management structures, Risk Assessment while the Corporate Safety and Social risks that it faces.
The Groups risk matrix is regularly reviewed Responsibility Committee monitors safety, and monitored by the Executive Committee environment and community risks and the and its sub-committee, the Finance and Executive Compliance Committee monitors Risk Management Committee, as well as compliance risks.
These three Committees the Audit Committee and the Board.
This assist the Audit Committee and Board in review process includes ensuring that the identification and analysis of risk.
any new risks are identified, their potential Assurance on the internal control and risk impact on the Group assessed and management systems is provided in the appropriate controls established.
The risks form of management information, reports identified are ranked based on the potential and updates from the Group internal audit impact and the probability of occurrence in function, external audits and the oversight order to assess their impact on the Groups by the Executive Committee, Audit operation and viability.
The impact and the Committee and Board.
probability are reassessed on a regular basis based on latest developments in the 2018 Risk Assessment Groups macro and micro environment.
The risks set out in the matrix were It is the responsibility of the Groups assessed by the Finance and Risk Executive Committee to define appropriate Management Committee, Executive actions to adequately monitor those Compliance Committee and the Audit risks and establish an effective control Committee, as appropriate, and the risks environment.
The controls are generally identified as posing the biggest threat conducted by the Groups internal audit to the Companys operations based on function or members of the Executive their potential impact and taking account Committee and updates are provided to of the mitigating measures in place were the Executive Committee and the Board.
analysed in order to identify the principal risks faced by the Group for assessment Risk Governance by the Board.
The principal risks identified The Ferrexpo Board is ultimately are set out on pages 38 to 47. responsible for defining the Groups attitude to risk and ensuring that appropriate At each Board meeting throughout the year, systems of risk management and internal the Board reviewed the risk register and control are established and embedded assessed the risks facing the Company across the Group, in conformity with its over both the short and long term.
The desired risk management culture.
Its Viability Statement is set out on page 48. responsibility extends to ensuring that the principal risks faced by the Group are robustly assessed and that the Companys exposure to such risks are aligned with its strategic objectives.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its regular monitoring of risk exposures and the Groups risk matrix, and is responsible for evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of the established risk management and internal control systems.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 37 RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS FERREXPO BOARD Overall responsibility for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems Sets strategic objectives and defines risk appetite Monitors the nature and extent of risk exposure AUDIT COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CSR COMMITTEE Supports the Board in monitoring risk Assesses and mitigates Overseas CSR matters exposure and risk appetites Company-wide risk and performance Reviews effectiveness of risk Monitors internal controls management and control systems FINANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Monitors centralised financial risk management structures EXECUTIVE COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Monitors Group compliance Monitors Group and local compliance officers INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION Supports the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of risk management Maintains and develops internal control systems OPERATIONAL LEVEL Risk management processes and internal controls embedded across all Ferrexpo operations RISK MATRIX HEAT MAP The risks identified in the heat map to the right highlight which could have the greatest impact shaded blue on the 5.1 1.1 2.3 3.2 Groups operations and viability.
3.1 2.1 2.2 4.1 1.2 1.3 UNLIKELY ALMOST CERTAIN Likelihood Impact VERY LOW SEVERE
