Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 38 PRINCIPAL RISKS Due to the very nature of risk it cannot be emerging market.
As such, Ferrexpo The list of the principal expected to be completely exhaustive.
New recognises and accepts the risks present risks may emerge and the severity or in its business and looks to mitigate them risks and uncertainties probability associated with known risks where possible.
In general, in 2018, the may change over time.
overall level of risk present was similar to facing Ferrexpos prior years and movements in individual All risks and their mitigations are actively risks have not varied significantly compared business, that are listed considered monthly at the Groups Finance to 2017.
Risks relating to 2019 are and Risk Management Committee discussed below.
below, is based on the meetings based on detailed analysis.
The Board of Ferrexpo has ultimate Boards current Ferrexpo operates in the mining industry responsibility for the identification of risks where there is an inherent level of risk and associated mitigation strategies.
present due to the nature of its operations.
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial In addition, the iron ore fines price which Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief forms a major component of the Groups Marketing Officer manage specific risks on received price is volatile, while the Groups a day-to-day basis related to their functions.
asset base is located in Ukraine, an We have indicated how our principal risks would impact our ability to deliver against our strategy.
Sell to a world class customer portfolio 4.
Maintain a social licence to operate 5.
Maintain appropriate capital allocation between a strong balance sheet, returns to shareholders and investment for growth Increase in expected risk in 2019 Decrease in expected risk in 2019 Risk balance for 2019 For more information on Our Strategy See pages 32-33 1.
REALISED PRICE The Groups realised price is principally impacted by demand for iron ore which is highly correlated to global demand for steel and steel mill profitability.
In 2018, global steel mill profitability increased compared to 2017 levels, especially in the first nine months of the year.
Profitability in the 4Q of the year, however, was impacted by rising trade tensions and slower economic activity, especially in China.
This resulted in a fall in global steel mill margins.
As of 31 January 2019, steel margins had improved in China: however, no improvement was seen in Europe as yet.
Despite the above, most market analysts have recently upgraded their iron ore price expectations for 2019.
This follows the January 2019 tailings dam breach in Brazil and the subsequent reduction in mining volumes announced by the largest producer in Brazil and the world of an expected 60 million to 70 million tonnes annualised of current capacity closures as of 18 April 2019.
Most of this tonnage was used to produce high grade iron ore.
In 2018, in line with previous years, the pricing formula used for long-term contracts in the pellet industry was, in general, based on the Platts 62% Fe iron ore fines prices, a negotiated pellet premium usually agreed annually and the cost of international freight usually referenced to the C3 index.
In 2019, it appears the industry is transitioning to a pricing formula based on 65% Fe index iron ore fines price rather than the 62% Fe iron ore fines price.
This represents a change in precedent for the industry and allows producers of 65% Fe pellets, such as Ferrexpo, to directly capture the price premium for higher grade ore. Ferrexpos achieved price can vary significantly from period to period as it is dependent on the global price for 65% Fe iron ore fines, pellet premiums and freight all of which Ferrexpo has little or no control over as a price taker.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 39 1.1.
LOWER IRON ORE PRICES EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION A decline in the iron ore fines price will reduce Group n a Ferrexpos market Ferrexpo is a low cost producer revenue, profitability and cash generation.
A reduction in share of the total iron ore relative to the majority of its peers, cash generation could impact the Groups ability to fund market is very low and, as positioned on the lower half of A maintenance and development capital investment.
Lower such, it is considered a the pellet cost curve.
Ferrexpos levels of maintenance investment could result in lower price taker operating costs are partly correlated production volumes, higher production costs, reduced with commodity prices.
When the cash generation and a weakened balance sheet.
commodities cycle is in a downward RISK APPETITE phase, and Ferrexpo typically receives The 62% Fe iron ore fines price averaged US$69 per tonne in a lower selling price, its cost base in Medium 2018 compared to US$71 per tonne in 2017.
Most market general also reduces.
Furthermore, analysts have recently upgraded their expectations for iron the Hryvnia is a commodity-related ore prices in 2019 based on supply disruptions expected currency and historically over the long LINK TO STRATEGY from Brazil.
Furthermore, it is expected that required term it has depreciated during periods upstream tailings dam remediation across the industry will of low commodity prices, although 3 5 likely last around three years, continuing to constrain supply.
movements of the Hryvnia against the US Dollar can also be influenced Currently, a consensus of analyst forecasts for the average by short-term political factors.
benchmark 62% Fe iron ore fines price in 2019 is US$71 1 per tonne and US$64 per tonne in 2020.
Ferrexpo regularly reviews options to hedge the price of its output: Steel demand and steel mill profitability have weakened however, its current strategy is to which, together with increased scrap usage, could impact not enter into hedging agreements.
overall demand for iron ore and hence iron ore pricing.
A Ferrexpo has maintained positive weak demand environment would support demand for low profit and cash generation grade iron ore as steel mills look to reduce their input costs throughout the iron ore price cycle.
and, therefore, reduce the premium paid for high quality ores and pellets.
For further information on iron ore prices and the market environment See pages 20-23 1 Analyst consensus is based on price forecasts from Citi, Macquarie, Barclays, JPM, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, CRU, HSBC, Investec and UBS as of 2 April 2019.
PELLET PREMIUMS AND PELLET SUPPLY EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION Ferrexpo receives a pellet premium for its product in addition Chief Marketing Officer Ferrexpo sells high quality pellets to the iron ore fines price.
Currently, a substantial portion of and Chief Executive Officer which underpins demand for its its profitability is due to this premium.
The average Atlantic product throughout the commodity pellet premium from 2011 to 2018 was US$38 per tonne.
Should the pellet premium RISK APPETITE decline, Ferrexpo has one of the lowest Average pellet premiums in 2018 were 30% higher than in pellet conversion costs in the industry, Medium 2017 and traded at a ten year high.
In 2019 it is expected which should ensure that it is able to that pellet premiums will likely be in line with 2018: however, remain a competitive producer.
LINK TO STRATEGY industry pricing will be based on the 65% Fe iron ore fines For further information on price rather than the 62% Fe iron ore fines price.
pellet premiums and the market 1 3 5 environment As the industry appears to be transitioning the pellet pricing See pages 20 to 23 formula to be based on the 65% Fe iron ore fines price, it is notable that in 2018, 2017 and 2016 the 65% Fe iron ore fines price traded at US$21 per a tonne, US$16 per tonne and US$5 per tonne respective price premium above the 62% Fe iron ore fines price.
Pellet premiums are primarily influenced by steel mill profitability.
CRU expects global steel demand to remain stable in 2019.
Pellet premiums may also be influenced by increasing requirements to reduce air emissions in the steel production process as well as supply shortages following the tailings dam accident in Brazil in January 2019.
This is likely to provide support to pellet premiums in the short to medium term.
Meanwhile, prohibitively high barriers to entry are unlikely to see significant new pellet supply entering the market in the short to medium term.
For further information See Industry in Chairmans statement and Market Review on pages 17 and 20-23 respectively Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 40 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 1.3.
SEABORNE FREIGHT RATES EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION As iron ore is a bulk commodity, seaborne freight rates are Chief Marketing Officer Ferrexpo has its own in-house freight an important component of the cost to deliver product to a and Group Freight and distribution specialists who customer.
An increase in freight rates will reduce the net Manager procure freight competitively on behalf price received from a customer while a reduction in freight of the Group.
Ferrexpos geographic rates will increase the net price received from a customer.
proximity to its European customers is RISK APPETITE a competitive advantage compared to Seaborne freight rates, such as C3, are published by the other iron ore producers.
C3 freight represents the cost for ocean transportation for iron ore from the Brazilian port of Tubaro where the largest seaborne pellet supplier is based to LINK TO STRATEGY Qingdao, China the largest steel producer in the world.
2 3 5 As Ferrexpo sells to international customers, the price it receives includes reference to C3 or other appropriate globalbenchmarks.
Freight rates are largely influenced by the price of oil and demand for capesize vessels from competing bulk producers.
In 2018, the average C3 freight rate increased to US$18 per tonne from US$15 per tonne in 2017.
In 2019, subject to oil prices, freight rates may be impacted by lower demand due to reduced iron ore shipments from Brazil given recent curtailments to production.
As of 1 January 2020, the International Maritime Organization will enforce a new 0.5% global sulphur cap on fuel content in the shipping industry from the present 3.5% limit.
Subject to supply and demand dynamics, including steel mill profitability, the introduction of IMO 2020 could increase freight costs for iron ore suppliers across the industry and reduce net prices and thus impact profitability.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 41 2.
O PERATING RISKS AND HAZARDS INCL.
MINING, CHANGE PROCESSING AND LOGISTICS COMPANY SPECIFIC RISK ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION Ferrexpo operates large-scale mining operations and Chief Operating Officer, Since 2014, the Group has refurbished industrial process facilities, which pose significant Chief Marketing Officer three out of its four pellet lines.
In 2019, operating challenges and environmental risks.
The the Group will continue to invest in its Group is exposed to geotechnical incidents, including repairs and maintenance programme, RISK APPETITE high wall failures and tailings dam breaches, as well as which will include the final pellet line catastrophic processing equipment failure.
This could shutdown for 75 days in 2H 2019.
Low lead to large scale fatalities, production-related shortfalls or shutdowns as well as logistics bottlenecks.
In 2018, Ferrexpo spent US$66 million LINK TO STRATEGY on sustaining capex 2017: US$79 The Groups operations require significant sustaining capital million and US$80 million on repairs expenditure and repair and maintenance programmes and maintenance 2017: US$78 million.
1 2 3 4 5 to ensure safe operation and availability of equipment.
A reduction in sustaining capital or repairs and maintenance Ferrexpo operates one tailings dam expenditure can result in lower mining volumes, covering an area of 1,500 hectares.
processing plant breakdowns and pelletiser line failures.
The dam is constructed on flat topography and the method of Production stoppages will increase costs and lower construction is the Modified Centreline output.
It can also reduce the quality of the product and methodology.
The dam is split into may lead to late delivery to customers.
Lower volumes, three sections with each section higher costs and financial penalties due to poor quality subdivided into smaller sections of 400 and late delivery can impact the Groups cash generation meters by 400 meters.
The walls of the ability, reducing liquidity levels and impacting capital dam and of the sections within the investment levels as well as balance sheet strength.
Poor dam are constructed using engineered pellet quality or late delivery of product can also affect fill, including siliceous rock.
Due to this the Groups ability to perform according to customer structure, if a breach occurs the contracts and its ability to renew contracts in the future.
leakage is unlikely to occur from all sections at the same time.
This means that the amount of possible damage should be limited.
The dam has been designed by external consultants Ukrgiproruda, with biannual inspections by the Ukrainian mining regulator.
Following the tailings dam breach in Brazil in January 2019, Ferrexpo has appointed an international consultant, to further review and verify the dams design, construction and monitoring.
Ferrexpo has also appointed an international consultant to review the possibility of high wall pit failures.
Where possible, Ferrexpo owns its own logistics infrastructure.
As of 31 December 2018, this included 2,252 rail cars, which reduces reliance on state rail cars for transportation of pellets to border points, 156 barges to transport pellets into Central Europe, and a 49.5% interest in the port of TIS Ruda on the Black Sea which guarantees the Group independent access to seaborne markets, avoiding reliance on the state port.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 42 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 2.2.
HEALTH AND SAFETY RISKS COMPANY SPECIFIC RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION The mining and processing of iron ore is often associated Chief Operating Officer Most of the accidents reported have with a hazardous working environment as it includes the use been traced back to non-compliance of explosives and the operation and repair of heavy with internal safety procedures.
RISK APPETITE machinery, amongst other things.
Failure to provide a safe work environment for the Groups workforce and failure to Actions taken during 2018 have been Low ensure an improved and sustained performance in safety largely focused around contractors behaviour can impact the Groups social licence to operate.
Activities include: Fatalities and lost time injuries also result in production LINK TO STRATEGY A focus on significant risk stoppages as well as negatively impacting employee morale.
management: Significant incident and near miss 2 4 During 2018, there was one fatality 2017: one.
A total of 25 reporting: lost time injuries occurred across the Group during the year Increased training throughout the compared to 23 in 2017.
The lost time injury frequency rate year for safety advisers: per million man hours worked was 1.18 2017: 1.17.
Focus on improvement in the quality of accident investigations: Focus on FPMs maintenance areas to improve workplace conditions and housekeeping: Increase in external safety audits: Increased minimum safety standards for light vehicles and equipment: Employment of a safety consultant with significant international experience and implementation of a Supervisor Safety Leadership Training Programme: An important focus of safety training is to instil a culture of accountability.
The goal of these workshops is to emphasise and ensure that all employees understand and appreciate the importance of strict adherence to safety procedures and that protection of our employees is paramount: and An increase in speed checks, alcohol testing and operator and maintainer competencies.
Employee remuneration is partly linked to safety performance.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 43 2.3.
OPERATING COST INCREASES EXTERNAL AND COMPANY RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION The production of iron ore pellets is a more capital-intensive Chief Operating Officer Ferrexpo sits in the bottom half of the process than other types of iron ore production as it requires pellet cost curve.
Many of its costs the enrichment of relatively low grade ore into a high grade which relate to commodity prices will RISK APPETITE product.
As such, pellet producers typically have higher impact its peers to a similar extent.
As operating costs per tonne of output than producers of iron such in times of higher commodity Low ore fines or lump.
prices, the Group should be able to maintain its cost competitiveness Approximately 60% of Ferrexpos C1 cash cost of LINK TO STRATEGY relative to its competitors.
A production US$ per tonne is commodity related, including fuel, electricity, gas, explosives and steel grinding media.
In Ferrexpo looks to increase production 2 5 times of relatively high iron ore prices the cost of production volumes to ensure fixed cost dilution tends to increase due to commodity cost inflation: however, and enable the Group to offset to during periods of low commodity prices the cash cost is some extent external cost inflation.
In addition, over half of the Groups The Group has a Business operating costs, including in-land logistics costs, are Improvement Programme aimed at incurred in Ukrainian Hryvnia.
The Hryvnia is a commodityincreasing efficiencies and reducing related currency and historically over the long term it has costs by 1% to 2% per annum.
depreciated during periods of low commodity prices, although movements of the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the Ferrexpo has established several US Dollar can also be influenced by short-term sources of suppliers for key products politicalfactors.
as well as several supply routes.
As such, the Groups cost of production is sensitive to local inflation, exchange rate fluctuations between the Hryvnia and the US Dollar and US Dollar commodity cost inflation.
In the higher pellet premium environment the Group has taken the opportunity to increase its repair and maintenance activities to further improve equipment reliability and performance: this has continued into 2019 and likely to continue into 2020.
The Group is also increasing its mining activity at FPM to access higher grade ore.
In 2018, the Groups C1 cash cost of production increased from US$32.3 per tonne to US$43.3 per tonne.
See pages 25 and 26 for a description of the factors impacting operating costs.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 44 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 3.
COUNTRY 3.1 UKRAINE COUNTRY RISK EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION Ukraine has been an independent country since 1991.
Chief Executive Officer, Ferrexpo operates in accordance with During this time, the country has witnessed four changes Ferrexpo Board of relevant laws and utilises internal and in government and two revolutions in 2004 and in 2014.
Directors external legal advisers as required to It has also been subjected to the annexation of Crimea, monitor and adapt to legislative and there is an ongoing conflict in Eastern Ukraine with changes.
RISK APPETITE over 12,000 deaths of Ukrainian nationals.
The general political instability has negative social and economic In August 2018, Ferrexpo increased its Medium consequences and is capable of damaging Ferrexpos 2017 Pre-Export Finance PXF credit ability to operate without disruption in Ukraine.
As of facility from US$195 million to US$400 LINK TO STRATEGY 21 April 2019, a new president of Ukraine was elected and million and extended the tenor from parliamentary elections will be held in October 2019. three to four years.
1 2 3 4 5 Economic weakness can reduce the governments Ferrexpo prioritises sufficient A ability to fund social services, leading to tensions within total liquidity levels and strong local communities.
It can also impact the governments credit metrics to ensure smooth ability to meet payment obligations to exporters such operations should geopolitical or as VAT refunds and or lead to higher taxes including economic weakness disrupt the increased royalty payments.
Services provided by state financial system of the country.
monopolies such as the supply of electricity, gas and freight transportation can also be disrupted in this environment.
Ferrexpo prioritises a strong internal This can affect Ferrexpos ability to export product reliably.
control framework including high standards of compliance and ethics.
It The Group holds mining licences and other permits operates a centralised compliance required to carry out mining operations.
If mining licences structure supported and resourced were to be revoked or not renewed, Ferrexpos ability locally at the Groups operations.
to continue to produce pellets would be at risk.
Ferrexpo has implemented policies and procedures throughout the Group Macro and political events in Ukraine can constrain including training.
Ferrexpos ability to raise finance.
It can also reduce availability of high skilled labour as emigration levels rise.
Ferrexpo looks to maintain a talented workforce through skills training and by In December 2018, Moodys upgraded Ukraines sovereign offering competitive wages, taking into credit rating to Caa1 with a stable outlook.
Moodys stated account depreciation of the Hryvnia Ukraines credit profile balanced the countrys meaningful against the US Dollar and local progress on reforms, a gradually improving external liquidity inflationlevels.
position, increasing resilience to geopolitical shocks and a moderating debt burden against a still weak rule of law, Ferrexpo is an important economic pervasive corruption, sporadic access to capital markets, contributor to Ukraine and it is and a short-term risk of a disorderly political transition.
integrated into the local and national economy.
Transparency International ranks Ukraine as 120th out of 180 countries in terms of the level of perceived corruption with 180th being regarded as the most corrupt.
This is the third year of improvement in Ukraines ranking.
There is a risk, however, that counterparties are involved in activities that are not in compliance with relevant international standards.
Further, a weak judicial system can be susceptible to outside influences and can take an extended period of time for courts to reach final judgement.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 45 3.2.
COUNTER PARTY RISK EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION Independent Review of Charitable Donations to Ferrexpo Board of The Board has closely monitored Blooming Land Directors the relationship between the Charity Ukraine is a frontier emerging market that has undergone and the Group, and overseen the significant upheaval since the Euromaidan revolution in involvement of the Chief Executive RISK APPETITE November 2013.
This was followed by the annexation of Officer who, in his role, was the Crimea by Russia in 2014 and the start of armed conflict main communication between Low in Eastern Ukraine, where over 12,000 Ukrainian nationals the Board and the Charity.
During this period, the country went through a severe economic recession, with real GDP LINK TO STRATEGY Enquiries were made over several declining 6.6% and 9.8% in 2014 and 2015 respectively.
years by the Group as part of its This was followed by a major banking crisis, with over 85 relationship with the Charity.
The 4 banks declared insolvent by the National Bank of Ukraine Group implemented a number of key while the local currency devalued 67% against the US controls to manage its relationship Dollar from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2015. and expenditures which have been improved and developed in particular Ferrexpos Corporate Social Responsibility CSR throughout 2016, 2017 and 2018. programme in Ukraine was formally established in 2009 For further information on and focused on the areas surrounding the mines.
controls in place in relation to Blooming Land see the Audit In 2013, given the severe upheaval in the country and to Committee Report on page 71. support its general social licence to operate, the Group established a CSR programme on a national basis.
A Throughout the relationship with the charity called Blooming Land which operates through three Charity, various other steps have been sub-funds the Charity was used for this programme.
taken, including a review by the Audit Committee covering the operation of The Charitys activities included diabetes prevention, the sub-funds in 2015 and site visits.
eyesight care and support for the elderly, including by hosting events subcontracted out to event managers.
As part of the Groups procedures The interim conclusion is that the Charity operated and outside the internal control independently of Ferrexpo and it is not a related framework, an additional external party of the Chief Executive Officer or of the review was carried out in May 2018 Groups executive management.
as to the relevance and reliability of the independent audited accounts For the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group made of the Charity received by the charitable contributions of US$9.5 million to Blooming Land Board for the year end 2017.
Donations to the Charity ceased in May 2018.
From 2013 until May 2018, when donations were An Independent Review has been ceased, the Group made total contributions to the Charity established by the Board to look of approximately US$110 million.
into, amongst other things, whether Blooming Lands use of Ferrexpos As with any CSR programme there is a risk that contributions was for the stated fundsdonated could be misapplied, including through purpose.
Depending on the nature of any such For further information misappropriation or misapplication, there is a risk that See Chairmans Statement page the Groups financial statements might not fairly reflect 18, Responsible Business page 59, the nature of the expenditures made to the Charity Corporate Governance Report page and may fail to make provision for fines, penalties or 63, Independent Review Committee other liabilities.
There is also a risk that related party Report page 69, Audit Committee transactions within the Charity are not disclosed Report page 71 and Note 7 page 121, Note 29 page 154, Note 33 to the Group.
Due to uncertainty surrounding the page 161 and Note 34 page 161 to status of the donations, further considerations are the financial statements.
presented in Note 29 Contingencies on page 155.
The Board developed controls to cover donations to the Charity as set out in the 2017 full year accounts and continued to develop these controls prior to the Group ceasing donations in May 2018.
During 2019, see Note 34 Events after reporting period on page 161 the IRC was formed and the circumstances leading up to its establishment are described in the IRC Report on page 69.
For further information See Chairmans Statement page 18, Independent Review Committee Report page 69, Responsible Business page 59, Corporate Governance Report page 63, Audit Committee Report page 71, and Note 7 page 121, Note 29 page 155, Note 33 page 161 and Note 34 page 161 to the financial statements.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 46 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 4.
TAX 4.1 TAX EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION Chief Financial Officer Ferrexpo conducts transparent and Ferrexpo is a large taxpayer in Ukraine and also pays tax open dialogue with local, regional internationally.
The growing complexity of tax legislation and national tax authorities.
Its tax around the world can result in unforeseen tax payments.
RISK APPETITE strategy is in line with best international Ferrexpo is subject to transfer pricing regulations both locally standards and it is in compliance and internationally.
The Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Medium with all known requirements.
The BEPS project initiated by the G20 and OECD is likely to Group regularly takes advice increase scrutiny of cross-border tax transactions and may LINK TO STRATEGY on tax matters from Ukrainian result in challenges from different jurisdictions.
Legislation and regulations are not always clearly 5 For further information written and are subject to varying interpretations and See Note 11 of the financial inconsistent enforcement by local, regional and national statements Ukrainian tax authorities, and other governmental bodies.
The uncertainty of application and the evolution of Ukrainian tax laws, including those affecting crossborder transactions, could result in additional tax payments having to be made by the Group which would A reduce cash flows and impact total liquidity levels.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 47 5.
CAPITAL ALLOCATION Ferrexpo aims to maintain prudent leverage metrics with net debt to underlying EBITDA as of 31 December 2018 at 0.67 times.
The Groups priority since 2015 has been to deleverage and it has repaid over US$500 million of gross debt since 1 January 2016.
As such, the Board feels it is appropriate to readjust the use of available free cash flows from primarily deleveraging to include a more balanced focus on dividends and investment opportunities whilst ensuring its credit metrics remain strong.
5.1 INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES COMPANY RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION Chief Executive Officer, Management has procedures in place Ferrexpo evaluates and, if appropriate, enters into high Chief Financial Officer to ensure any potential investment net present value opportunities which it believes are opportunity undergoes thorough due potentially value accretive to the Group and can reduce diligence and meets strict financial future operating risk.
There is a risk that Ferrexpo criteria.
There is a Group Investment may make acquisitions or investments, which may RISK APPETITE Committee which analyses hurdle not be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet its return rates to ensure risk is operational or strategic expectations.
In addition, such Medium appropriately mitigated both on project an investment or acquisition may divert managements execution and in terms of the internal attention away from ongoing business activities.
LINK TO STRATEGY rates of return.
All investment decisions are approved by the Board.
