Principal risks and uncertainties Our risk management approach We take a holistic approach to risk Our risk management framework management, first building a picture of Top down Bottom up theprincipal risks at divisional level, Strategic risk management Operational risk management thenconsolidating those principal risks alongside Group risks into a Group view.
Review external environment Assess effectiveness of risk Risk management structure BOARD Robust assessment of principal risks management system Whilst some risks such as treasury risk AUDIT aremanaged at a Group level, all of our Set risk appetite and parameters Report on principal risks and COMMITTEE businesses are responsible for identifying, uncertainties Determine strategic action points assessing and managing the risks they facewith appropriate assistance, review andchallenge from the Group functions asnecessary.
Consider completeness of Identify principal risks Areas of focus identified risks and adequacy We seek to continue to improve the quality of Direct delivery of strategic actions EXECUTIVE of mitigating actions in line with risk appetite COMMITTEE risk management information generated by Consider aggregation of risk our businesses.
In 2018 we will implement Monitor key risk indicators exposure across the business anew risk management system across the business, and refresh our risk appetite.
The current structure is as follows: Report current and emerging risks Execute strategic actions Identify, evaluate and mitigate DIVISIONS Report on key risk indicators operational risks recorded in risk register Risk management structure Responsibility Process Board and Audit Committee The Board has overall responsibility for The Board reviews and theGroups systems of internal control confirms Group and .
divisional risks and the AuditCommittee The Audit Committee has a specific reviewsthe Groups risk responsibilityto review and validate the systems management process.
of risk management and internal control.
The Executive Committee reviews the Groups The Executive Committee risk management processes.
Internal Audit and other Group Executive Internal provides assurance on the key risk mitigating management review and Committee Audit controls and ensures that the audit plan is challenge Group and appropriately risk-based.
The divisions and Group functions Divisional and Group risk managementhave responsibility for the champions maintain and identification and management of risks, update risk registers for developing appropriate mitigating actions theirfunction or division.
Risks and mitigating Divisions actionsare monitored through normal business management processes.
34 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups principal risks are set out in Our risk management methodology is aimed thetable on page 36 onwards.
These risks at identifying the principal risks that could: have been assessed taking into account theirpotential impact both financial and adversely impact the safety or security of the reputational : the likelihood of occurrence, and Groups employees, customers and assets: any change to this compared to the prior year have a material impact on the financial or and the residual risk after the implementation operational performance of the Group: of controls.
Further information on our risk management processes is contained in the impede achievement of the Groups strategic Corporate governance report on page 57. objectives and financial targets: and or adversely impact the Groups reputation or stakeholder expectations.
Strategic objectives To deliver our strategy, it is important that we understand and manage the risks that face the Group.
The table below outlines our principal risks and identifies which of our strategic objectives may be affected by those principal risks.
Risk Change in year Link to strategic priorities Economic conditions 1 2 3 4 Political and regulatory 1 2 3 4 5 Contract businesses including rail franchising 1 2 3 4 5 Competition and emerging technologies 1 2 3 4 Information technology 1 2 3 4 5 Data security inc. cyber & GDPR New 1 2 3 4 5 Treasury and credit rating 1 3 4 Pension scheme funding 1 3 4 Compliance, litigation and claims, health and safety 1 2 3 5 Labour costs, employee relations, recruitment and retention 1 2 3 4 5 Disruption to infrastructure operations 1 2 3 5 Link to strategic priorities 1 Focused and disciplinedbidding Driving growth through attractive 2 commercial propositions Continuous improvement in 3 operating and financial performance 4 Prudent investment in our key assets Responsible partnerships with our 5 customers and communities FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Economic conditions including Brexit implications Changing economic conditions affect our different businesses To an extent, our First Bus and Greyhound Low oil prices have adversely indifferent ways.
operating companies are able to modify affected our Greyhound and Fort servicestoreact to market changes.
A less positive economic outlook could have a negative impact onour businesses in terms of reduced demand and reduced All of our businesses focus on controlling costs The UK departure from the opportunities for growth or to retain or secure new business.
European Union Brexit may OurFirst Rail businesses are particularly sensitive to movements adversely impact the UKs inkey economic indicators.
The same factors could also affect economic position which in turn ourkey suppliers.
may have an adverse impact onthe Groups UK operations.
An improving economic climate, particularly when combined withlower fuel prices, may result in reduced demand for public transportation in our Greyhound and First Bus businesses as alternative modes of transport become relatively more affordable.
Improving economic conditions may also result in a tightening of labour markets resulting in employee shortages, rising pay, or affectthe availability of public funding for transport services.
Political and regulatory The political landscape within which the Group operates is The Group has dedicated legal teams in The political landscape in the US constantly changing.
Changes to government policy, funding theUKand North America who advise on and the UK continues topresent regimes, infrastructure initiatives, or the legal and regulatory emergingissues.
framework may result in structural market changes or impact Forexample, intheUK we have The Group actively engages with the relevant theGroups operations in terms of reduced profitability, increased continued toinvest in our fleet to government and transport bodies and policy costs and or a reduction in operational flexibility or efficiency.
meet thechallenge of tighter makers to help ensure that we are properly .
positioned to respond to any proposed changes.
Our continued focus on service quality and delivery helps to mitigate calls for structural market change.
Contract businesses including rail franchising Approximately half of the Groups business is contracted, which The relevant divisions have experienced and We continually review our isdependent on the ability to renew and secure new contract wins dedicated bid teams who undertake careful contracts to take account of on profitable terms.
Failure to do so would result in reduced revenue economic modelling of contract bids and, changing circumstances such and profitability and incorrect modelling or bid assumptions could wherepossible, seek to negotiate risk sharing aseconomic environment or lead to greater than anticipated costs or losses.
arrangements with the relevant customer or infrastructure changes.
Ourrailfranchise contracts Failure to comply with contract terms could result in termination, areexamples of this.
litigation and financial penalties and failure to win new contracts or The Group also has a comprehensive review non-renewal of existing contracts.
process for rail bids as they are developed and finalised involving a number of divisional and Competition for new rail franchises is intense.
We bid against rail Groupfunctions as well as final Board sign off.
operators from both the UK and other countries.
Failure to win franchises in the future will result in a lower First Rail division Compliance with our rail franchise agreements is contribution and profitability.
closely managed and monitored on a monthly basisby senior management and procedures are The GWR, TPE and SWR franchises cover a period during which inplace to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
there will be significant change including major infrastructure work, electrification and resignalling as well as the introduction of new trains, which require careful planning and management.
Failure to manage these risks adequately in accordance with our plans could result in financial and reputational impacts to the Group.
36 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Competition and emerging technologies All of the Groups businesses both contract and non-contract The Group continues to focus on service quality In North America, Greyhound compete in the areas of pricing and service and face competition and delivery as priorities in making our services hasimplemented new pricing from a number of sources.
attractive to passengers and other customers, technology tools to allow for across our portfolio of businesses.
amore rapid response to Our main competitors include the private car and existing and anincreasingly competitive newpublic and private transport operators across all our markets.
We have a dedicated cross-divisional Consumer marketplace driven by low Airline competition impacts demand for bus travel, especially in Experience Team focused on improving our service costairline competition.
Emerging services such asUber, to customers and improving access to our services.
ride sharing apps and price comparison websites makeaccess to In our contract businesses, a competitive bidding We currently have a number of alternative transport solutions easier.
However, emerging strategy and a strong bidding team are key.
autonomous vehicle pilot projects technologies such as autonomous vehicles and on demand in the US and are working on Wherever possible, the Group works with local schemes also provide opportunities to grow and developour market onein the UK.
We are also running andnational bodies to promote measures aimed segments.
pilots for on demand technology atincreasing demand for public transport and the both in the USA and UK.
Increased competition could result in lost business, reduced other services that we offer.
Information technology IT The Group relies on IT in all aspects of our business.
Anysignificant The Group has increased its focus on asset No material change in the year, disruption or failure, caused by external factors, denial ofservice, management and further enhanced its IT security however, web and mobile sales computer viruses or human error could result in aservice processes and procedures.
channels are of increasing interruption, accident or misappropriation of confidential information.
importance across many of The Group has further strengthened its IT project Process failure, security breach or other operational difficulties may ourbusinesses.
management capability during the year, particularly also lead to revenue loss or increased costs, fines, penalties or within Greyhound.. additional insurance requirements.
Prolonged failure of our sales websites could also adversely affect revenues.
Continued successful delivery and implementation of the GreyhoundIT transformation plan is required to improve yield management and drive future growth.
Failure to properly manage the implementation of new IT systemsmay result in increased costs and or lost revenue.
Data security including cyber security & GDPR New All business sectors are targeted by increasingly sophisticated We have threat detection systems across our In the year we appointed a cybersecurity attacks.
Across our divisions we are seeing increased business but continue to remain vigilant to DataProtection Officer to oversee use of mobile and internet sales channels which gather large securityimprovements when identified.
the completion of our GDPR amounts of data and therefore the risk of unauthorised access to, compliance project.
From orloss of, data in respect of employees or our customers is growing.
May2018, the Data Protection Officerwill undertake the tasks A failure to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation setout in the GDPR, including GDPR, which came into force in May 2018, could result in monitoring compliance.
significant penalties and could have adverse impact on consumerconfidence in the Group.
We have also implemented a number of staff training initiatives toraise awareness of data security risks and responsibilities.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Treasury and credit rating As set out in further detail in note 24 to the financial statements The Groups Treasury Committee manages The continued reduction in the onpages 130 to 134, treasury risks include liquidity risks, risks treasury policy, and delegated authorities are Groups leverage from 1.9 times arising from changes to foreign exchange and interest rates and reviewed periodically to ensure compliance net debt: EBITDA to 1.5 times at fuelprice risk.
withbest practice and to control and monitor the end of the financial year as a theserisks appropriately.
result of strong cash generation Foreign currency and interest rate movements may impact the and the bond refinancing has profits, balance sheet and cash flows of the Group.
The Group is continuously focused on improving further reduced refinancing risk.
operating and financial performance as part of Ineffective hedging arrangements may not fully mitigate losses or ourstrategic objectives as outlined on page 11. may increase them.
The Group is credit rated by Standard & Poors and Fitch.
Adowngrade in the Groups credit ratings to below investment grademay lead to increased financing costs and other consequences and affect the Groups ability to invest in itsoperations.
Pension scheme funding The Group sponsors or participates in a number of significant Diversification of investments, hedging of liabilities, The Group has closed the UK defined benefit pension schemes, primarily in the UK.
amendment of the defined benefit promises and Group and First Bus Pension the introduction of defined contribution benefits Schemes to future accrual from Future cash contribution requirements may increase or decrease fornew starters in First Bus, FirstGroup corporate April 2018. and consolidated other based upon financial markets, notably investment returns and functions and our Canadian businesses have First Bus legacy schemes.
This will valuations, the rates used to value the liabilities and through reduced these risks.
further reduce the size and volatility changesto life expectancy, and could result in material changes of the pension funding risk over the inthe accounting cost and cash contributions required.
The Group also seeks to remove liabilities from longer term.
thebalance sheet where it can be achieved costeffectively.
During the year, The Pensions Regulator TPR has been in Under the First Rail franchise arrangements, the discussion with the Railways Groups train operating companies are not Pension Scheme the Scheme responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a regarding the funding assumptions franchise so there is only short term cash flow risk which could result in changes to within any particular franchise.
The Scheme is the industry-wide pension scheme.
The outcome of the review, which could impact all rail operators, is not yet known.
The Rail Delivery Group is engaging with rail operators to understand and assess TPRs concerns and to develop an industry-wide solution.
Compliance, litigation and claims, health and safety The Groups operations are subject to a wide range of legislation Compliance with Group and divisional policies and The legal climate in North America, and regulation.
Failure to comply can lead to litigation, claims, procedures.
particularly in the US, continues damages, fines and penalties.
todeliver judgements which The Group has a very strong focus on safety and  in The Group has three main insurable risks: third party injury and other itis one of our five values.
The Group self-insures favourofplaintiffs, and at times claims arising from vehicle and general operations, employee injuries third party and employee injury claims up to a unpredictable.
The costs of and property damage.
certain level commensurate with the historical risk dealingwith this challenging legal profile.
We purchase insurance above these limits environment is factored in the The Group is also subject to other litigation, which is not insured, from reputable global insurance firms.
Due to the scale and particularly in North America, including contractual claims and those managed by experienced claims handlers.
scope of our operations, risk relating to employee wage and hour, and meal and break, matters.
mitigation in this area continues to Non-insured claims are managed by the Groups A higher volume of litigation and claims can lead to increased costs, be an area of focus for the Group.
dedicated in-house legal teams with external reduced availability of insurance cover, and or reputational impact.
Increased frequency of accidents, clusters of higher severity losses, a large single claim, or a large number of smaller claims may negatively affect profitability and cash flow.
38 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Labour costs, employee relations, recruitment andretention Employee costs represent the largest component of the Groups The Group seeks to mitigate these risks via its Strong economic conditions, operating costs, and new regulation or pressure to increase wages recruitment and retention policies, training particularly in North America, could increase these costs.
Competition for employees, particularly schemesand working practices.
continue to impact retention in an improved economic climate, can lead to shortages which andrecruitment.
Our working practices include building increase costs and affect service delivery.
communication and engagement with trade During the year, we have High employee turnover could lead to higher than expected unionsand the wider workforce.
Examples of refreshedour recruitment increases in the cost of recruitment, training and labour costs thisengagement include regular employee approach and offer in First Student andoperational disruption.
communication, satisfaction surveys, and the and First Transit to reflect local presence of Employee Directors who are voted for market conditions.
Similarly, industrial action could adversely impact customer by the employees to represent them on many of serviceand have a financial impact on the Groups operations.
the Groups UK operating company boards and the FirstGroup plc Board.
Where increased wages and incentives are necessary to attract and retain employees, those extra costs are factored into our bid models, where possible, to ensure appropriate returns are achieved.
Disruption to infrastructure operations Our operations, and the infrastructure on which they depend, can We continue to develop and apply good practice, No material change during the be affected by a number of different external factors, many of which and provide guidance to our employees to help year, although severe weather are not within our control.
These factors include terrorism, adverse them identify and respond effectively to any hasled to service disruption in weather events and, potentially, climate change or pandemics.
both our North American and UKoperations.
The threat from terrorism is enduring and continues to exist in all We maintain close working relationships with ofour markets.
Public transport continues to be regarded as an specialist government agencies, in relation to terror attractive and viable target, and has previously been subject to threats, in both the UK and North America.
Across our businesses, we take all reasonable steps to help We employ dedicated security specialists in the guard against such activity on the services we operate.
An attack, UKand North America.
orthreat of attack, could lead to reduced public confidence in public transportation, and or specifically in the Groups security and safety The geographic spread of the Groups businesses record and could reduce demand for our services, increase costs offers some protection against specific incidents.
orsecurity requirements and cause operational disruption.
Inaddition, some of our contract-based businesses have force majeure clauses in place.
Greater and more frequent adverse weather could lead to interruptions or disruption to service performance and reduced We have severe weather action plans and customer demand with consequent financial impact, potential procedures to manage the impact on increased costs and accident rates.
As a leading transport provider, we face the challenge of The Group continues to target reductions in our addressingclimate change, both through managing its impact emissions, including through behaviour change andreducing emissions.
initiatives and investment in new technology.
The risks listed are not all of those highlighted by our risk management processes and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks anduncertainties not presently known to us, or currently deemed to be less material, may also impact our business.
Indication of a movement inarisk may not indicate a change in the overall net risk position after taking into account risk mitigations.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39
