Principal Risks and Future Prospects The Board has carried out a comprehensive robust assessment of the principal risks as well as the uncertainties that could threaten FCITs success.
The consequences for its business model, liquidity, future prospects and viability form an integral part of this assessment.
The principal risks, both perceived and observed, together with their as most relevant to the assessment of FCITs future prospects and mitigations are set out in the table below.
The Boards processes viability were those relating to potential investment portfolio underfor monitoring them and identifying emerging risks are set out on performance and its effect on share price discount and dividends, as page 48 and in note 25 on the accounts.
The risks are unchanged well as threats to security over FCITs assets.
Our risk evaluation forms from those reported in the prior year.
The principal risks identified an inherent part of our strategy determination described on page 8.
Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken on Principal Risks in the year Business strategy fails to meet investor needs or The Board assesses investor needs through targeted research and marketing, the The Board has continued to develop the overall business strategy as outlined on page 8 in access the targeted market leading to significant effectiveness of which is kept under continuous review.
Overall business strategy is formally conjunction with the Manager.
Marketing campaigns continued throughout the year and pressure on the share price.
discussed annually with the Manager and is monitored by the Board throughout the year while the share price total return was down slightly, as reported under the Key Performance against their own objectives.
A discount control mechanism has operated over many years.
Indicators on page 19, the average discount was 1.3% with no buybacks being necessary.
As The Companys discount is a KPI measured by the Board on a continual basis.
such, this risk is categorised as reduced.
Reduced throughout the year under review Unfavourable markets or inappropriate asset Portfolio activities over the year are outlined in the Fund Managers Review starting on Underlying investment strategies, performance, gearing and income forecasts are reviewed allocation, sector and stock selection, currency with the Fund Manager at each Board meeting.
Cash, borrowing and derivative limits, as page 22 along with his views concerning any economic and earnings downturn.
As set exposure and use of gearing and derivatives may well as dividend paying capacity, are monitored.
BMO GAMs Performance and Risk Oversight out in note 25 c on the accounts, a portion of non-sterling exposure was hedged through give rise to investment under-performance as team provides independent oversight on investment risk management for the directly the purchase of 100m to offset the potential impact on valuations in the event of a well as impacting capacity to pay dividends to managed portfolios.
The portfolio is diversified and FCITs structure enables it to take a longbreakthrough in Brexit negotiations and substantial rise in the value of sterling.
Political risk factors could also impact term view of countries, markets and currencies.
FCIT has a Revenue Reserve which can be in the Key Performance Indicators on page 19, long-term performance remains in line with performance.
used to pay growing dividends in years when income receipts fall as a result of poor market expectations and the dividend for the year is again fully covered.
level of uncertainty indicates that this risk has increased.
Increased during the year under The performance of FCIT relative to its market benchmark, its peers and inflation is a review KPI measured by the Board on a continual basis.
Failure of BMO GAM to continue to operate The Board regularly reviews the strength of the Managers investment management and The Board has reviewed BMO GAMs controls and risk management structure as part of its effectively through loss of key staff, inadequate client services resources with BMO GAM and meets their risk management team to review annual assessment.
The Board met senior management as part of the reappointment process investment and support capability, systems or internal control and risk reports.
The Managers appointment is reviewed annually and can described on page 41.
The viability, systems and staffing capabilities of the Manager were resource.
be terminated at six months notice.
A business continuity plan is in place.
The Manager fully reviewed by the Board and a decision was taken to continue with its services.
Thorough structures its recruitment and remuneration packages in order to retain key staff and works review and challenge of the Manager were provided through the Audit Committee, the closely with the Board on any significant management changes.
Management Engagement Committee and the Board.
As such, this risk is unchanged.
Unchanged throughout the year Performance KPIs and Manager errors are monitored by the Board for indications of under review continuity or other Manager issues.
Errors, fraud or control failures at service The Board receives regular control reports from BMO GAM covering risk and compliance, The Audit Committee regularly reviews FCITs risk management framework with the providers or loss of data through business including oversight of third party service providers.
The Board has access to BMO GAMs assistance of the Manager.
Supervision of third party service providers has been maintained continuity failure or cyber-attacks could damage Head of Business Risk and their Group Information Security Officer, International and requires by BMO GAM and includes assurances regarding IT security and increasing cyber-threats.
The reputation or investors interests or result in loss.
any significant issues directly relevant to FCIT to be reported immediately.
The Depositary Depositary maintained oversight of custody of investments and cash and its regular reports Cyber risks remain heightened.
is liable for loss of any of FCITs securities and cash held in custody unless resulting from an to the Board indicated no matters of concern.
The Board engaged with the Manager and external event beyond its reasonable control.
other data processors to implement, comply and embed the necessary safeguards under the Unchanged throughout the year The Board additionally monitors efficiency of service providers processes through General Data Protection Regulations introduced in May 2018.
20 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Strategic Report Through a series of connected stress tests ranging from moderate to extreme scenarios and Ten Year Horizon based on historical information, but forward-looking over the ten years commencing 1 January 2019, the Board assessed the effects of: Based on its assessment and evaluation Potential illiquidity of the Companys portfolio during substantial market falls when needing of FCITs future prospects, the Board has a to fund private equity commitments.
reasonable expectation that FCIT will be Substantial falls in investment values on the ability to maintain loan covenants and to repay able to continue in operation and meet its and re-negotiate funding.
liabilities as they fall due over the coming Significant falls in income on the ability to continue paying steadily-rising dividends and ten years: FCITs business model, strategy maintaining adequate revenue reserves.
and the embedded characteristics listed The impact of substantial fluctuations in exchange rates on asset values and dividend income.
below have helped define and maintain the stability of FCIT over many decades.
In concluding that ten years is a reasonable period over which to assess future prospects of the The Board expects this to continue over Company, the Board considers that this approximates the periods relating to: many more years to come.
its private equity commitments: its borrowings, repayable beyond ten years: and FCIT has a long-term investment the corporate governance principles relating to the Directors tenure.
strategy under which it invests mainly The Board also took into consideration the perceived viability of its principal service providers, in readily realisable, publicly listed potential effects of anticipated regulatory changes and the potential threat from competition.
securities and which restricts the level of borrowings.
The Boards conclusions are set out under the Ten-Year Horizon.
FCITs business model and strategy are not time limited and, as a global investment trust, are unlikely to be Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken on Principal Risks in the year adversely impacted as a direct result of Brexit and other political uncertainties.
Business strategy fails to meet investor needs or The Board assesses investor needs through targeted research and marketing, the The Board has continued to develop the overall business strategy as outlined on page 8 in FCIT is inherently structured for longaccess the targeted market leading to significant effectiveness of which is kept under continuous review.
Marketing campaigns continued throughout the year and term outperformance, rather than pressure on the share price.
discussed annually with the Manager and is monitored by the Board throughout the year while the share price total return was down slightly, as reported under the Key Performance short-term opportunities, with ten years against their own objectives.
As considered as a sensible time-frame The Companys discount is a KPI measured by the Board on a continual basis.
for measuring and assessing long-term investment performance.
Unfavourable markets or inappropriate asset Portfolio activities over the year are outlined in the Fund Managers Review starting on Underlying investment strategies, performance, gearing and income forecasts are reviewed FCIT is able to take advantage of its allocation, sector and stock selection, currency with the Fund Manager at each Board meeting.
As set closed-ended investment trust structure exposure and use of gearing and derivatives may well as dividend paying capacity, are monitored.
BMO GAMs Performance and Risk Oversight out in note 25 c on the accounts, a portion of non-sterling exposure was hedged through such as securing long-term borrowings give rise to investment under-performance as team provides independent oversight on investment risk management for the directly the purchase of 100m to offset the potential impact on valuations in the event of a and has the ability to secure additional well as impacting capacity to pay dividends to managed portfolios.
As reported finance in excess of ten years.
FCIT has a Revenue Reserve which can be in the Key Performance Indicators on page 19, long-term performance remains in line with FCIT has the ability to hold a performance.
Nevertheless, the overall proportion of long-term less liquid conditions.
private equity investments with The performance of FCIT relative to its market benchmark, its peers and inflation is a ten years typically being the period KPI measured by the Board on a continual basis.
over which commitments are made and realisations are expected to be Failure of BMO GAM to continue to operate The Board regularly reviews the strength of the Managers investment management and The Board has reviewed BMO GAMs controls and risk management structure as part of its received.
effectively through loss of key staff, inadequate client services resources with BMO GAM and meets their risk management team to review annual assessment.
The Board met senior management as part of the reappointment process There is rigid monitoring of the investment and support capability, systems or internal control and risk reports.
The viability, systems and staffing capabilities of the Manager were headroom under FCITs bank borrowing resource.
structures its recruitment and remuneration packages in order to retain key staff and works review and challenge of the Manager were provided through the Audit Committee, the closely with the Board on any significant management changes.
Regular and robust review of revenue Performance KPIs and Manager errors are monitored by the Board for indications of and expenditure forecasts is undertaken continuity or other Manager issues.
throughout the year against a backdrop of large revenue and capital reserves.
Errors, fraud or control failures at service The Board receives regular control reports from BMO GAM covering risk and compliance, The Audit Committee regularly reviews FCITs risk management framework with the FCIT retains title to all assets held by the providers or loss of data through business including oversight of third party service providers.
Supervision of third party service providers has been maintained Custodian which are subject to further continuity failure or cyber-attacks could damage Head of Business Risk and their Group Information Security Officer, International and requires by BMO GAM and includes assurances regarding IT security and increasing cyber-threats.
The safeguards imposed on the Depositary.
reputation or investors interests or result in loss.
The Depositary Depositary maintained oversight of custody of investments and cash and its regular reports FCIT maintains a business continuity Cyber risks remain heightened.
The Board engaged with the Manager and plan including increased awareness on external event beyond its reasonable control.
other data processors to implement, comply and embed the necessary safeguards under the preventing cyber attacks.
The Board additionally monitors efficiency of service providers processes through General Data Protection Regulations introduced in May 2018.
