28 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING OUR RISKS Our risk management framework is based on our belief in the importance of risk awareness across the Group.
This framework enables us to identify, assess, prioritise and manage risks in order to deliver the value creation objectives defined in our business model.
RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 2018 RISK ASSESSMENT Within the identification phase of our risk management system, the Company also Our risk management system is based During our 2018 risk assessment captures emerging risks that could arise on risk identification, assessment, exercise, a team of 135 people evaluated as a result of new developments that prioritisation, mitigation and monitoring 109 risks across all our operations, have a chance of impacting Fresnillo, processes, which are continually advanced projects, exploration offices, either at a macro or operational level.
evaluated, improved and enhanced and support and corporate areas.
in line with best practice.
Examples of these are new requirements We narrowed down our 109 risks imposed by changes to regulation, In addition to our established risk into major risks which are monitored including stricter environmental rules, management activities, our executives, by executive management and the the commissioning of a new project and including operations managers, the Audit Committee.
We then further the use of state of the art underground controllership group, HSECR managers consolidated these into 12 principal technology, amongst others.
and exploration managers regularly risks which are closely monitored engage in strengthening the effectiveness by the Board of Directors.
This supports the executives and the Board in each of their responsibilities.
RISK GOVERNANCE BASIS Top-down The Board Oversight, identification, Reviews and approves Determines the nature Monitors exposures Sets tone on risk assessment and mitigation risk management and and extent of principal to ensure their nature management culture.
of risk at a corporate level internal control systems.
and extent are aligned with overall goals and strategic objectives.
Executive Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit Identifies strategic risks.
Supports the Board in monitoring Supports the Audit Committee Assesses level of risk related to risk exposures against risk appetite.
in evaluating the effectiveness achieving strategic objectives.
Reviews the effectiveness of our of risk mitigation strategies, Oversees execution and risk management and internal and internal controls implemented implementation of controls into control systems.
Bottom-up Identification, assessment Operational level and mitigation of risk Risk identification and assessment Risk mitigation and internal controls Risk awareness and safety culture across all operational performed across mining operations, monitoring embedded across embedded in day-to-day operations.
and functional areas projects and exploration sites.
functional areas and business units.
Including personnel at mine sites, development projects, exploration sites and support areas.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HEAT MAP As part of our bottom-up process, each business unit head determined X 2018 2017 the perceived level of risk for their individual unit.
Executive management 1 then reviewed and challenged each 1 perceived risk level, and compared it to 2 3 Fresnillo plcs risk universe as a whole.
11 2 The results of this exercise were used 6 6 as an additional input to identify the 4 9 5 Groups principal risks.
We conducted 11 the same risk analysis on advanced 8 8 projects, detailing the specific risks faced 7 7 by each project according to their 12 10 unique characteristics and conditions.
Unlikely Almost certain Likelihood Relative position 2018 2017 Risk 1 1 Impact of metal prices and global v macroeconomic developments 2 3 Potential actions by the government v e. g. taxes more stringent regulations 3 2 Access to land v 4 4 Security 5 5 Public perception against mining 6 6 Safety 7 8 Union relations 8 9 Exploration 9 7 Projects performance risk 10 10 Cyber security 11 12 Environmental incidents v 12 11 Human resources Bold text indicates risks that changed during 2018. v Risk that was considered for the viability assessment as detailed on pages 42-43.
Note for risk table: Change in risk level: vertical movement indicates impact and horizontal movement indicates likelihood.
Impact Very low Severe 30 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED RESPONSE MITIGATION TO OUR RISKS 1.
IMPACT OF METAL PRICES AND GLOBAL MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS RISK DESCRIPTION Macroeconomic events could create an adverse impact on General inflation in Mexico.
This was 4.9% in Mexican our sales and profits, and potentially the economic viability peso terms during 2018.
The specific inflation affecting of projects.
These events include: the Company was 2.6% in US dollar terms.
A decrease in precious metal prices, which is the primary A decrease in the price of our by-products.
The average realised price for gold the average realised prices for lead and zinc decreased remained flat year-on-year 0.1% vs. 2017 while silver 7.4% and 5.7% respectively, over the previous year.
Revaluation of the Mexican peso.
In 2018, the peso was devalued by 1.6% versus the average spot exchange rate of the US dollar.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Our hedging policy remains guided by the principle of We are not precluded from entering into derivatives to providing shareholders with full exposure to gold and silver minimise our exposure to changes in the prices of lead and prices.
However, following shareholder approval for the zinc by-products.
In 2017, the Group hedged a portion of our acquisition of 44% of Penmont and associated companies by-product lead and zinc production with maturities starting in 2014, we initiated a specific hedging programme to in 2018.
The combined profit during 2018 was US$ 1.6 million.
protect the value of the investment made in the acquisition, See note 29 in the Financial Statements page 211 for more details.
using a collar structure to allow partial continued exposure to gold prices.
The volume associated with this phased hedging Furthermore, we have hedging policies in place for foreign programme was strictly limited to up to 44% of production exchange risk, including those associated with capex related associated with the acquired Penmont assets and will not to projects.
In 2018, we entered into a number of foreign be extended to other assets in the Group.
The initial total exchange forward contracts denominated in euros, Swedish volume hedged was 1,559,689 oz of which 1,213,537 oz have kronor and Canadian dollars.
expired as at the end of 2018 366,432 oz expired in 2018 See note 29 in the Financial Statements page 210 for more details.
with no corresponding cash impact in 2018.
In terms of inflation, we experienced an increase in one of our main energy inputs over the previous year, with the average cost of diesel USC$ lt. rising by 7.7%.
On the other hand, the weighted average KWH USC$ decreased by 6.4%.
We will continue to identify and maintain efficiency initiatives to reduce our energy consumption.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS According to the majority of silver and gold financial Gross profit sensitivity to the analysts, the volatility of metal prices is expected to continue percentage change in precious to reduce.
Medium term projections are likely to favour metals price and to the Mexican stronger and more stable prices due to the unpredictable peso US dollar exchange rate.
global conditions which include: the view that US economic EBITDA sensitivity to the percentage growth will slow, and that the Chinese economy is likely to change in metals price and to Mexican suffer from the negative effects of any trade war.
In summary, peso US dollar exchange rate.
the macroeconomic backdrop is likely to favour a rotation back to safe haven assets.
RISK APPETITE HIGH FOR METAL PRICES, MEDIUM FOR ALL OTHER MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS Risk rating relative position 2018: Very high 1 2017: Very high 1 LINK TO STRATEGY 1 2 3 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
POTENTIAL ACTIONS BY THE GOVERNMENT, E. G. IMPLEMENTATION OF MORE STRINGENT REGULATIONS FOR OBTAINING PERMITS, ETC.
RISK DESCRIPTION Following the change in administration in 2018, actions by the i.
Extraction of materials other than minerals referenced in Article new Government may have an adverse impact on us.
This could 4 of the Mexican Mining Law gold, silver, lead, zinc, etc.
from the include more stringent regulations relating to the environment soil and sub-soil through open-pit processes: or explosives, more challenging processes for obtaining permits, ii.
Emissions of certain substances into the atmosphere: more onerous tax compliance obligations for ourselves and our iii.
Deposit of contaminants into the soil and water: contractors, as well as more frequent reviews by tax authorities iv.
Storage of waste in public or private landfills.
See note 25 for more details, pages 202 to 204.
The right of indigenous communities to be consulted and to grant On 1 January 2017, a new state law the State Law came into their prior and informed consent regarding mining concessions effect in the state of Zacatecas in northern Mexico.
It includes a may affect the granting of new concessions in Mexico.
new set of environmental taxes relating to the following activities undertaken within the state: RESPONSE MITIGATION Following an initial legal injunction and a ruling in our favour, We seek to maintain full compliance with tax authority the Supreme Court has allowed the Zacatecas state the requirements.
In doing so we continue to cooperate with right to impose an environmental tax.
Notwithstanding this any ongoing tax inspections.
development, the methodology presented for the calculation of Although Mexicos Mining Law does not yet incorporate such an environmental tax is yet to be discussed and approved.
indigenous consultation, it remains an ongoing issue.
Some local Considering the initial methodology, we estimate that the potential state governments have begun to legislate on this matter as a prior net impact of these new taxes on our income statement would be requirement for mining projects to proceed in specific areas where in the range of US$ 5-8 million annually.
We look forward to the indigenous populations may be present.
We will continue working court resolving the calculation methodology.
We continue to collaborate with other members of the mining We have extensive engagement programmes with communities community via the Mexican Mining Chamber to lobby against that may be impacted by our mining activities.
At the San Julin this and any other new detrimental taxes, royalties, or regulations.
mine, for example, we have recently worked in conjunction with We also support the industrys lobbying efforts to improve the the Federal Government to successfully conclude an indigenous general publics understanding of the Mining Law.
consultation for the construction of a water reservoir.
We remain compliant with all applicable environmental regulations See our Social and Sustainability Review, pages 66-84 for more details.
and are fully committed to operating in a sustainable way.
We are committed to holding community dialogue over the lifetime of a mine project, from the earliest exploration to eventual closure, aiming to create long-term relationships and value, while ensuring operational continuity.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS We continue to perceive this risk level as very high due to the Number of media mentions related to mining regulations.
These pressure that the Government or Government officials in either could include the mention of tax, royalties, the banning of mining case, both at the federal and local levels could exert over the mining activities in protected areas and legal precedents.
Evidence of this influence on our industry can be seen in also provides detail on the media itself, such as speaker profile the increase in the frequency of the reviews by the tax authorities, and political alignment.
the legislation issued in 2017 requiring management to ensure RISK APPETITE that contractors are compliant with their own tax obligations, the LOW imposition of the environmental taxes contained in the new State Risk rating relative position Law in Zacatecas and the indigenous consultation to obtain mining concessions.
In addition it is evident in the continued perceived level 2018: Very high 2 1 of corruption across Mexico, which remains high and worsened 2017: Very high 3 versus the previous year.
As a result, delays in obtaining permits for Note: In the map, the perceived level of risk remains very high, certain operations and or projects remain a risk.
with the change in rating during 2018 being due to the change of Mexico has a new administration and although we are yet to see any administration.
The change in rating though was only marginal as firm indication of direction, we remain confident in the long-term the possible impact and likelihood of a change in government was view both of our Company and the mining sector more generally anticipated and had already been captured within the risk rating in Mexico.
We will work with the new Government alongside trade last year.
bodies and the Mexican Mining Chamber.
Our aim will be to defend LINK TO STRATEGY the industry and its interests, while also continuing to highlight the significant positive impact the mining industry makes to 1 2 3 4 infrastructure, education and health in remote communities as well across Mexico more generally.
CHANGE IN HEAT MAP 1 Corruption Perception Index 2018, issued by Transparency International ranks Mexico as 138th of 180 countries by perceived levels of public sector corruption.
32 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED RESPONSE MITIGATION TO OUR RISKS 3.
ACCESS TO LAND RISK DESCRIPTION Failure or significant delays in accessing the surface land Litigation risk i. e. increased activism by agrarian above our mineral concessions and other land of interest communities and or judicial authorities.
is a permanent risk to our strategy, and has a potentially Presence of indigenous communities in the proximity high impact on our objectives.
Possible barriers to land of land that is of interest, where prior and informed access include: consultation and consent of such communities may Rising expectations of land owners.
Refusal to acknowledge prior land acquisition terms and Furthermore, insecurity in our exploration and operational conditions by members of a community.
areas as well as potential actions by the government increase the complexity of land access risk.
Influence of multiple special interests in land negotiations.
As the issue with the Ejido El Bajio is not yet resolved, Conflicts in land boundaries with an often arduous operations at Soledad & Dipolos remain suspended.
Succession issues among land owners resulting in a lack of clarity about the legal entitlement to possess and sell land.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Successful land access plays a key role in the management Always seeking tri-party cooperation between the of our mining rights, focusing on areas of interest or strategic Government, community and ourselves in securing value.
At the end of 2018, after adding required areas and access to land.
divesting areas of less interest, we held 1.8 million hectares Early involvement of our community relations and of mining concessions, which represents no change negotiation teams during the negotiation and acquisition year-on-year.
Other initiatives include: processes, including the exploration stage.
Careful advanced planning for land requirements and Working with our land negotiation teams, which comprise acquisitions by anticipating any issues with a potential land specialists hired directly by Fresnillo and also provided by purchase before intensive exploration.
In certain areas of Peoles as part of the service agreement.
interest, we negotiate leasing or occupation agreements As part of an ongoing review of the legal status of our with purchase options, in compliance with legal and land rights, we identified certain areas of opportunity and regulatory requirements.
continue to implement measures to manage this risk on The fostering of strong community relations through a case-by-case basis.
Such measures include, whenever investment in community programmes and infrastructure.
possible, negotiating with agrarian communities for the Such investments totalled US$3.1 million in 2018. outright purchase of land.
We use mechanisms provided under agrarian law and also utilise other legal mechanisms See Social and Sustainability Review pages 66-84. under mining law which afford added protection for land occupation.
These activities form part of our ongoing drive to reduce exposure to risk regarding surface land.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS The mining industry continues to face legal challenges in Percentage of land required for advanced exploration regard to access to land by individuals and local communities projects which is under occupation or other agreements who may seek to disregard previous land agreements.
This other than full property ownership overall and by project.
has been a consistent challenge in recent years.
Total US$ and percentage of project budget spent In addition, in areas close to land of interest, prior and on HSECR activities, including community relations informed consultation and consent of indigenous at projects and exploration sites.
communities may be required on a case-by-case basis.
The outcome is that despite our many strategic actions, RISK APPETITE the perceived level of this risk remains very high.
MEDIUM Risk rating relative position 2018: Very high 3 2017: Very high 2 LINK TO STRATEGY 1 2 3 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
SECURITY RISK DESCRIPTION Our people, contractors and suppliers face the risk of The influence of drug cartels, other criminal elements kidnapping, extortion or harm due to insecurity conditions and general lawlessness in some of the regions where we in some of the regions where we operate.
We face the risk of operate, combined with our exploration and project activities restricted access to operations projects and theft of assets.
in certain areas of transfer or cultivation of drugs, makes working in these areas a particular risk for us.
For example, activities at the San Nicols del Oro prospect remained suspended because of the level of insecurity in the state of Guerrero.
RESPONSE MITIGATION We closely monitor the security situation, maintaining clear During 2018, we replaced the majority of our security internal communications and coordinating work in areas of contractors, all of which now meet our operational higher insecurity.
We have adopted the following practices standards and reinforce our security strategies.
to manage our security risks and prevent and deal with We have maintained our logistics controls in order to reduce possible incidents: the probability of theft of mineral concentrate.
These controls We maintain close relations with authorities at federal, state include: the use of real-time tracking technology: surveillance and local levels, including army encampments located near cameras: tests to identify alterations in transported material: the majority of our operations.
guard services: control checkpoints in a safe corridor: and reduced number of authorised stops in order to optimise We have completed the implementation of increased delivery times and minimise the exposure of convoys.
technological and physical security of our Merrill Crowe plants at Herradura and Noche Buena, including the use of We continue to invest in community programmes, a remote monitoring process, also in use at the San Julin infrastructure improvements, and government initiatives to mine.
At the Saucito and Fresnillo mines, this programme support the development of lawful local communities and is 90% and 40% complete, respectively: implementation at discourage criminal acts.
these two mines has taken longer than expected due to the We suspend access to areas with an unacceptably high level extent of the new arrangements and the increased scope of insecurity.
However, we expect to complete Both internally and among our contractors, we continue to full implementation of our higher internal standard promote the reporting of criminal acts to the authorities.
requirements across all business units during 2019.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS We have continued to experience a high level of security Total number of security incidents incidents, both in frequency and severity, however our affecting our workforce thefts, operations were not materially impacted.
The perceived kidnapping, extortion, etc.. level of risk has therefore remained very high.
In the regions Number of sites affected and work and projects where we operate, we did not observe an days lost, by region and type of site.
improvement in the crime rate during 2018.
Number of media mentions related Following the change of administration, we have yet to see to security issues affecting the mining evidence of the new national security strategy.
We expect industry where we operate.
this to include the creation of a National Guard.
1 We refer to The Global Peace Index ranking, which indicates RISK APPETITE a higher likelihood of violent demonstrations and political LOW instability.
This index uses three broad themes: level of safety and security in society: the extent of ongoing domestic Risk rating relative position or international conflict: and the degree of militarisation.
2018: Very high 4 Mexico ranks 140 of 163 countries worldwide from best to 2017: Very high 4 worst, as a country with a low state of peace, and has fallen two places in the ranking.
In addition, we also use the Mexico 2 Peace Index ranking as a reference.
This is a comprehensive LINK TO STRATEGY index of the following indicators: homicides: violent crimes: weapons crimes: organised crime: and detention without 1 2 3 4 a sentence.
The index ranks states from 1 to 5, where 1 represents the most peaceful.
Zacatecas 3.3 on the index CHANGE IN HEAT MAP tends to rank among the less peaceful states in Mexico, while Chihuahua 2.9, Sonora 2.2 and Durango 2.0 are located in the medium range.
1 Global Peace Index 2018 prepared by the Institute for Economics & Peace, http: economicsandpeace.
org 2 Mexico Peace Index 2018 prepared by the Institute for Economics & Peace, http: economicsandpeace.
org 34 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED RESPONSE MITIGATION TO OUR RISKS 5.
PUBLIC PERCEPTION AGAINST MINING RISK DESCRIPTION Across the world, public opinion is wary of the potential adverse social and environmental consequences of mining operations.
This sentiment is manifested through increased regulatory obligations for mining companies and increased social activism by communities and other grassroots organisations.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Communities are our strategic partners.
To win and maintain Purposeful and aspirational engagement with their trust, we must show understanding and effective local communities: engagement, and be accountable for our impact.
Our wellMaintaining a Social Investment Portfolio to create established programme for community engagement includes: long term value, aligned with the UN Global Goals for Increased understanding and accountability: sustainable development.
We have identified four pillars where we can make a real difference: Education, Water, Monitoring public opinion within local and international Health and Capacity building.
Partnering with NGOs in these four pillars of social Holding continuous dialogue with our key local investment: Education IBBY, INNOVEC & First stakeholders through formal and informal meetings.
Robotics, Water Captar AC, Health National Carrying out social baseline, human rights and University Foundation and Capacity Building perception studies to better understand our positive ProEmpleo.
From the 2017 perception studies Engaging with municipal authorities to invest the carried out at each mine unit by a specialised third party, resources of the Mining Tax Fund in infrastructure social programmes were developed to address their projects that benefit our neighbouring communities.
Collaborating with peers in the international and Mexican Operating a grievance mechanism to address mining community to promote the benefits of the mining stakeholder concerns.
industry and responsible mining practices.
See Community Relations in the Social and Sustainability Review, pages 81-84 for more information.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS We have maintained our social licence to operate in our Number of local actions by noncommunities.
Continuing to maintain and protect this governmental organisations NGOs licence demands strong collaboration with the local or other local social groups against community and stakeholders.
There are multiple examples of how years of protests and Number of actions by NGOs or other demands have led to the cancellation of projects not only in local social groups against mining in the mining industry, but also in Mexico in general.
are not only from local communities, but also from local and Number of media mentions related international NGOs as well as regulators working to meet to demonstrations against the mining high expectations and pressure from governments.
continue to perceive this complex issue as a high risk.
RISK APPETITE LOW Risk rating relative position 2018: High 5 2017: High 5 LINK TO STRATEGY 1 2 3 4 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
SAFETY RISK DESCRIPTION It is an inherent risk in our industry that incidents due to unsafe acts or conditions could lead to injuries or fatalities.
Our people face risks such as fire, explosion, electrocution and carbon monoxide poisoning, as well as risks specific to each mine site and development project.
These include rock falls caused by geological conditions, cyanide contamination, and heavy or light equipment collisions involving machinery or personnel.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Regrettably, we suffered five fatal accidents during 2018, of a permanent specialist advisor in our top team who is in three of them in the last quarter of the year, meaning that charge of safety, health and community issues and has the we were very far from achieving our goal of zero fatalities.
responsibility for addressing our unacceptable safety record.
Management has continued to take serious actions to The Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate decreased to address and prevent the root causes of fatal accidents 20.47 in 2018 vs. 23.22 in 2017 while the Lost Time Injury and strengthened our safety initiatives.
These include: Frequency Rate increased to 8.64 vs. 8.14 in 2017.
The continuing roll out of the I Care, We Care programme We continue to deliver training for both employees and at our different mines to improve safety performance and contractors.
Personnel received an average of 94 hours of develop competences in our supervisors.
45 of these 94 hours involved HSECR training.
aims to develop risk competency by educating leaders, See Safety pages 73-74 for more on our safety strategy and programmes.
It fosters coaching and positive incentives and a comprehensive review and enhancement of our Critical Control Risk Protocols and Emergency Response Teams: and the appointment DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS Safety is continually monitored by the Board, which has Accident rate.
always given it the highest priority.
The Board oversees Days lost rate.
all accident investigations, ensuring that the appropriate Accident frequency: actions are taken to improve safety systems and practices.
As a result of the unacceptable safety record in 2018, the With lost time.
Board and the management team have decided to increase the likelihood of this risk.
RISK APPETITE LOW Risk rating relative position 2018: High 6 2017: High 6 LINK TO STRATEGY 4 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP 36 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED RESPONSE MITIGATION TO OUR RISKS 7.
UNION RELATIONS RISK DESCRIPTION The risk of union action or a deterioration in union relations at some sites may be possible.
Internal union politics could impact us negatively, as could pressure from other mining unions that want to take over the Fresnillo labour contracts.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Our strategy is to integrate unionised personnel into each We are proactive and timely in our responses to the needs BU team.
We achieve this by clearly assigned responsibilities of the unions, and experienced no labour-related work and programmes for maintaining close relationships with stoppages in 2018.
If required, we engage experienced legal unions at mine sites and at national level.
We maintain close counsel, both internal and external, to support us on labour communication with union leaders at various levels of the issues.
We will continue to closely monitor union and labour organisation in order to: raise awareness about the economic developments.
situation the industry is facing: share our production results: and to encourage union participation in our initiatives regarding safety and other operational improvements.
These initiatives include the safety guardians programme, alliances for obtaining certifications, integration of high productivity teams and family integration activities.
During the year, we held six leadership workshops which were attended by 162 key union leaders at our business units, in order to improve their leadership abilities at the local union committees.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS During 2018, we continued to build on our good relations Union members level of satisfaction.
with unions at national and local levels, however recent Number of media mentions related developments have led us to increase our perceived level to mining union developments.
of risk driven by the potential changes to labour laws which might impact the way labour unions operate.
At the time RISK APPETITE of this reports publication, the contractual revisions of our mines were carried out in a smooth manner without LOW setbacks.
Our executive management and the Board Risk rating relative position recognise the importance of union relations and follow 2018: Medium high 7 any developments with interest.
2017: Medium low 8 LINK TO STRATEGY 2 3 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
EXPLORATION RISK DESCRIPTION We are highly dependent on the success of the exploration We also risk the loss of purchase opportunities due to programme to meet our strategic value-creation targets insufficient speed in decision making.
and our long-term production and reserves goals.
As our production escalates and more mines approach In addition to the growing level of insecurity and access the end of their lives, replenishing our reserves becomes to land detailed in previous risks, other risks that may increasingly challenging.
impact prospecting and converting inferred resources include: the lack of a robust portfolio of prospects in our pipeline with sufficient potential in terms of indicated and inferred resources: and insufficient concession coverage in target areas.
RESPONSE MITIGATION During 2018, we invested a total of US$181.2 million in A team of highly trained and motivated geologists, both exploration activities.
Our objectives for 2019 include employees and long-term contractors.
a budgeted risk capital investment in exploration of Advisory technical reviews by international third party approximately US$140 million.
The approximate spending experts, up-to-date and integrated GIS databases, drone split is 43% for operating mines, 19% for exploration projects, technology, remote sensing imagery and software for 25% for prospects and regional prospecting and 13% for identifying favourable metallogenic belts and districts mining rights.
to be field-checked by the team.
Our exploration strategy also includes: Drill-ready high priority projects.
A focus on increasing regional exploration drilling See pages 44-48 for more on our exploration programmes and programmes to intensify efforts in the districts with investment.
For local exploration, aggressive in-field activities to upgrade the resources category and convert inferred resources into reserves.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS Maintaining a reasonable investment in exploration, even Drill programmes completed when metal prices are low, has been our policy through overall and by project.
While continuous investment has always been a Change in the number of ounces hallmark of our exploration strategy, replenishing exploited in reserves and resources.
reserves and increasing our total amount of resources could Rate of conversion from resources be a challenge in the future.
During 2018 we saw a decrease in to reserves.
our total silver resources, especially at our mining operations.
Additionally, we are addressing certain issues with the RISK APPETITE geological model at the Fresnillo and Saucito mines.
MEDIUM Risk rating relative position 2018: Medium 8 2017: Medium 9 LINK TO STRATEGY 1 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP 38 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED RESPONSE MITIGATION TO OUR RISKS 9.
PROJECTS PERFORMANCE RISK RISK DESCRIPTION The pursuit of advanced exploration and project development Delivery risk: projects may go over budget in terms of cost opportunities are core to meeting our strategic goals.
and time: they may not be constructed in accordance with However, they carry certain risks: the required specifications or there may be a delay during construction: and major mining equipment may not be Economic viability: the impact of capital cost to develop delivered on time.
and maintain the mine: future metal prices: and operating costs through the mines life cycle.
Uncertainties associated with developing and operating new mines and expansion projects: fluctuations in ore grade and recovery: unforeseen complexities in the mining process: poor rock quality: unexpected presence of underground water or lack thereof: lack of community support: and inability to obtain and maintain required operating permits.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Our investment evaluation process determines how to We closely monitor project controls to ensure that we deliver best direct available capital using technical, financial and approved projects on time, on budget and in line with the qualitative criteria.
The executive management team and Board of Directors are regularly updated on progress.
Technical: we assess the resource estimate and confirmed Each advanced exploration project and major capital resources, the metallurgy of the mineral bodies, the development project has a risk register containing the investment required in general infrastructure e. g. roads, identified and assessed risks specific to the project.
power, general services, housing and the infrastructure required for the mine and plant.
The project development pipeline in 2018 included: Financial: we look at risk relative to return for proposed Completion of the first stage of the Pyrites plant project investments of capital.
We set expected internal rates of leaching plant at Saucito.
return IRR per project as thresholds for approving the The Centauro Extension, including a second line of the allocation of capital, based on the present value of expected Dynamic Leaching Plant, at Herradura.
cash flows from the invested capital, and undertake The conclusion of a feasibility study at Juanicipio and stochastic and probabilistic analysis.
the start of discussions regarding construction and Qualitative: the alignment of the investment with our operations agreements.
Approval of the project is strategic plan and business model: synergies with other anticipated in due course.
investments and operating assets: and the implications See development projects on page 49 for more information.
for safety, security, people, resourcing and community relations.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS Our investment governance process and system of capital Earned value rate of financial project controls remain in place, safeguarding our ability advancement vs. physical advancement.
to deliver growth through development projects.
During Percentage of major equipment ordered 2018, we commissioned the 2nd Dynamic Leaching Plant, and received according to plan.
with some delays due to the testing period taking longer Percentage of completion of than expected.
We anticipate construction of Juanicipio mine development.
Several factors have led us to perceive a lower level of risk for Juanicipio compared to San Julin, these include a lower level of investment, easier access to RISK APPETITE infrastructure and the sites proximity to current operations.
MEDIUM Risk rating relative position 2018: Medium 9 2017: Medium 7 LINK TO STRATEGY 2 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
CYBER SECURITY RISK DESCRIPTION We recognise the importance of the confidentiality, continuity, Their goals include a desire to take advantage of the role integrity and security of our data and production systems.
that mining plays in regional and global supply chains as well as in national economies.
Certain groups may also attempt As a mining company, we may be under threat of cyber to exploit vulnerabilities created by the industrys heavy attacks from a broad set of attacker groups, from hacktivists reliance on automated operational systems.
In our case, this and hostile regimes to organised criminals.
could include initiatives such as Operations Technology and Information Technology OTIT Integration and Digital Mine see pages 50 to 65.
RESPONSE MITIGATION During 2018 we developed a set of initiatives under Our approach will also be based on the MITRE ATT&CK our Cyber Security Programme & Threat Assessment which is used as a foundation for the development of project, supported by external advisors.
The objective of the specific threat models and methodologies in the private programme is to identify the cyber security risks to which our sector, in government, and in the cyber security product and Company is exposed to and align them to our mission and service community.
A governance model, continuous risk business strategy.
assessment and Information Security policies will form the basis for our OTIT operational assurance which will support In line with best practice, our approach is based on two key the digital transformation of Fresnillo in the coming years.
frameworks: The US National Institute of Standards and Technology Cyber Security Framework NIST CSF which outlines how companies can assess and improve their ability to prevent, detect and respond to cyber attacks.
Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies COBIT, which was created by ISACA, the international professional association for IT management and governance, to provide an implementable set of ITrelated controls, processes and enablers.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS As cyber security is an increasing threat to the industry, the Total number of cyber security Audit Committee continues to monitor and oversee this risk.
Our plan for 2019 is to focus our efforts on risk mitigation Number of media mentions related projects designed to protect information and key assets, to cyber security issues affecting the according to the risk appetite set by management.
RISK APPETITE LOW Risk rating relative position 2018: Medium 10 2017: Medium 10 LINK TO STRATEGY 2 3 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP 40 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED RESPONSE MITIGATION TO OUR RISKS 11.
ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS RISK DESCRIPTION Environmental incidents are an inherent risk in our industry.
These incidents include the possible overflow or collapse of tailing deposits, cyanide spills and dust emissions, any of which could have a high impact on our people, communities and business.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Our environmental management system ensures compliance Evidence that the Company continues to comply with all the with Mexican regulations, provides transparency, and CNAs parameters is the fact that all permits are still held by supports initiatives that reduce our environmental footprint.
In addition, management carries out thorough internal and third party reviews for all tailings dams within the Four of our five mining units are certified under ISO 14001 Group.
Furthermore, management continues to take actions and have Clean Industry certification: our San Julin mine to mitigate this risk, for example by engaging a third party to is currently in the process of obtaining both.
conduct a design stability assessment before a tailings dam Our leaching operations in Herradura and Noche Buena is approved for an increase in capacity, and to carry operate in compliance with the Cyanide Code issued by out regular tests throughout the lifetime of the dam.
the International Cyanide Management Institute.
We rigorously adhere to the requirements established The recent disaster in Brazil has led to increased focus on the by each projects environmental permit Environmental issue of tailings dam safety across the global mining industry, Impact Statement issued by the Ministry of Environment, and motivated us to review our controls to mitigate this risk.
We also continue to support contractors Our controls include carrying out a number of studies to in their efforts to integrate environmental management confirm that an area is suitable prior to the construction systems.
These studies include geotechnical, geological, See our performance in our Environment section on pages 76-80 geophysical, hydrological and seismic analysis.
construction, the CNA National Commission for Water undertakes various studies and continues to periodically review dams in relation to environmental impacts, on an ongoing basis.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS Our environmental management system, together with Number of BUs with ISO 14001:2004 our investment in preventative measures and training, are certification.
key factors which reduce the risk of major environmental Number of BUs with Clean Industry incidents.
Based on the perceived level of risk due to the certification.
recent severe and catastrophic industry developments, Number of BUs with International the Board has decided to increase the severity of this risk.
Number of environmental permits for all advanced exploration projects according to schedule.
RISK APPETITE LOW Risk rating relative position 2018: Medium low 11 2017: Low 12 LINK TO STRATEGY 4 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
HUMAN RESOURCES RISK DESCRIPTION Our people are critical to delivering our objectives.
We face A lack of reliable contractors with sufficient infrastructure, risks in selecting, recruiting, training and retaining the people machinery, performance track record and skilled people we need.
is also a risk that could impact our ability to develop and construct mining works.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Recruitment: we have assessed our hiring requirements Our focus is on continuous improvement, driven by for key positions for 2019, and aim to meet them by internal training, development and personal growth opportunities: training and promotion, and by recruitment through: in summary our focus is on fair hiring, fair remuneration and benefits and gender equality as described in the Our People Our close relationships with universities offering earth section on pages 69 to 70.
We again received the Great Place sciences programmes.
We have dedicated programmes to to Work award, among companies with more than 5,000 identify potential candidates based on performance who employees.
During 2018, 143 employees were promoted may be hired as interns and or employees on graduation.
13% of our structure at a professional level and 58 transfers We welcomed 137 professional practitioners, 57 trainees and took place between business units.
As we explain in the scholarships and 173 engineers to our coaching programme.
Corporate Governance section, we are currently considering CETEF Centre for Technical Studies Fresnillo which how best to enable employee engagement at Board level, teaches specific mining operational skills.
All 10 graduates which we believe will support improved retention rates.
hired in 2018 joined as full-time employees.
Performance: We have continued our performance CETLAR the Peoles Centre for Technical Studies evaluation process, reinforcing formal feedback.
We which trains mechanics and electrical technicians.
All eight promote the certification of key technical skills for graduates were hired as full-time employees in 2018 across operational personnel, and the administrative and leadership Fresnillos business units.
skills development programme for required positions.
We During 2018 we contracted 83 experienced personnel to develop our high potential middle managers through the fulfil our requirements.
Retention: Our aim is to be the employer of choice, and we Contractors: We have long-term drilling and mining recognise that in order to be a profitable and sustainable contracts.
We invest significantly in training contractors, company, we have to generate value for our employees particularly on safety and environmental requirements.
We do this by providing a healthy, safe, We have supported the enrolment of 80 of our contractor productive and team-oriented working environment that companies into the self-management Programme on Health not only encourages our people to fulfil their potential but and Safety at Work PASST, promoted by the Mexican also supports process improvements.
Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare STPS.
Of these companies, 55% have been certified, and 45% are in the process of being certified.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS We aim to carefully align our human resources with our Number of positions filled by area of operational and growth requirements.
We believe that we specialty, for vacancies and new positions.
have currently achieved this alignment, due to the success Employee turnover rate.
of activities including our ongoing university recruitment Average hours of training and professional and employee retention strategies.
Contractor resourcing continues to be a major challenge.
Number of contractor personnel relative We maintain a broad base of contractors in order to provide to unionised personnel per BU.
us with operational flexibility, and aim to professionalise them to the same level as our own employees.
RISK APPETITE MEDIUM Risk rating relative position 2018: Low 12 2017: Low 11 LINK TO STRATEGY 1 2 3 4 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP
