Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties as at 31 December 2018 The Board confirms that through 2018 a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Funding Circle was completed.
A comprehensive listof Group-wide risks and emerging risks was reviewed and monitored throughout the year.
The most significant risks and uncertainties faced by Funding Circle are listed in the table below, categorised by principal risk: Strategic risk Strategic risk is defined as the failure to build a sustainable, diversified and profitable business that can successfully adapt to environment changes due to the inefficient use of Funding Circles available resources.
KEY RISKS MANAGEMENT OF RISK CHANGE IN RISK IN YEAR Marketplace funding Funding Circles business model is tobe a direct lending platform that Investor funding shortfall or We have continued todiversify our matches the supply of capital to failure to maintain a diversified funding sources from investors, thedemands ofSME borrowers investor base may impact across institutional, retail, more efficiently and sustainably Funding Circles operations and government and Funding Circle than banks.
ability to originate new loans.
We carefully manage the match The ability to attract investors We have also expanded our between capital supply and SME and secure sufficient funding marketplace funding strategy loan demand by: from existing or new investors intoprivate funds to help support depends on, among other things: - considering a broad range the growth of our business through ofmanagement information - Funding Circles ability to economic cycles.
We plan to use a andkey performance indicators continue to provide attractive portion of our equity to seed new atFunding Circles Liquidity Risk investor returns: Funding Circle funds.
This will be Forum, Executive Risk done within strict guardrails - compliance with the terms Committee and Board: agreedwith the Board and andconditions of funding monitored thereafter.
- maintaining a strong agreements with forward-looking pipeline We have reorganised our Capital investors:and ofpotential investors: Markets team into dedicated Sales - effective maintenance and and Structuring teams.
This will - having a seasoned Capital scaling of financial and allow the relevant teams to focus Markets team responsible riskmanagement and on investor origination and deal forstructuring transactions: and compliance controls execution.
We will open a dedicated andprocedures.
- managing concentration risk and institutional sales office in New York diversifying sources of funding.
to build stronger investor relationships with US credit investors.
39 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued as at 31 December 2018 Strategic risk continued Strategic risk is defined as the failure to build a sustainable, diversified and profitable business that can successfully adapt to environment changes due to the inefficient use of Funding Circles available resources.
KEY RISKS MANAGEMENT OF RISK CHANGE IN RISK IN YEAR Economic environment We continually monitor the credit health of the loan portfolios under Financial risk that is associated There is a high level of uncertainty management and perform stress with macroeconomic or regarding the UK credit environment test simulations to help ensure that political factors that may in the context of Brexit negotiations returns would remain resilient in the and the possible macroeconomic affect Funding Circles context of risk volatility.
Latest repercussions of the exit from financial and or stress test simulations suggest that theEU.
investors returns would remain positive in every geography where Relevant SME-related we operate even under severe macroeconomic indicators economic conditions.
remainstable but are trending negatively, e. g. individual Key management actions include insolvencies in the UK have been but are not limited to : trending upwards over the past - annual stress testing of loan twoyears and Q3 2018 seasonally portfolios in each market adjusted reached its highest level andindependent review by since Q1 2012, slightly above the external party: historical average.
Company insolvencies in the UK in Q3 2018 - resilient pricing and credit rose to the highest quarterly level strategy: since Q1 2014.
- monthly monitoring of internal We are also noticing negative and external signals as part of signals from recent business the Credit Risk Management surveys in the UK.
Committee: - independent validation and continuous monitoring of the performance of risk models: - continuous tuning of risk and pricing parameters to correct for possible deviations in returns: - agile capability to rapidly deploy pricing and credit strategy adjustments deemed necessary: and - in-house experienced collections and recoveries capabilities with built-in scalability.
40 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss should any borrower fail to fulfil their contractual repayment obligations.
Since we typically have not lent from our own balance sheet, we are not directly exposed to credit risk.
Credit risk performance does affect the returns received by our investors and the attractiveness of Funding Circle SME loans as an investment.
Hence, credit of loans is managed on behalf of investors with the utmost care and attention to deliver credit performance inline with expectations.
KEY RISKS MANAGEMENT OF RISK CHANGE IN RISK IN YEAR Portfolio risk management Funding Circles aim is for well-balanced loan portfolios Errors in borrower acquisition, Our fundamental approach to credit thatgenerate positive returns credit approval, scoring risk management remains unchanged.
forinvestors through the models and credit risk economiccycle.
We have fully embedded the management processes may operating principles of the Enterprise Our Chief Risk Officer is responsible result in increasing defaults Risk Management Framework.
for managing credit risk by: and loss rates not aligned Our global Risk and Analytics team toinvestors expectations.
- formulating credit risk policies has grown in size with the addition covering credit assessment and ofexperienced risk professionals risk grading, portfolio monitoring capable of supporting the increasing and reporting, collections and size and complexity of our operations.
recoveries and ensuring adherence to these policies: We have kept strengthening the quality of our risk scorecards, - recruiting, training and managing leveraging larger and more mature expert risk professionals with data sets to develop refined models.
theadequate skills, objectives In 2018 we have deployed in the and capacity: USour fourth generation of risk - establishing the formal mandates scorecards, and in the UK the and authorisation structure for seventh generation.
setting risk parameters and We have deployed across all markets approving loans: an automated collections workflow - performing independent quality tool to enable systematic treatment control of credit decisions: of borrowers in arrears with greater productivity and scalability.
- limiting concentration risk to counterparties and industries: - actively monitoring the performance of the loan portfolios and the market trends that could affect performance: - implementing adequate procedures to control for model risk including the independent validation and monitoring of credit scoring models : and - performing annual stress tests with high quality standards.
41 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued as at 31 December 2018 Regulatory, reputation and conduct risk Regulatory, reputation and conduct risk is defined as engaging in activities that detract from Funding Circles goal of being a trusted and reputable financial services company with products, services and processes designed for customer success and delivered in a way that will not cause customer detriment or regulatory censure.
KEY RISKS MANAGEMENT OF RISK CHANGE IN RISK IN YEAR Regulatory risk We maintain vigilance as to proposed changes affecting our The risk that Funding Circles We consider that the external and business and we engage with ability to effectively manage regulatory environment is in a state policy makers where relevant.
We its regulatory relationships is offlux at present given a number of have continued to invest time and compromised or diminished, regulatory consultations ongoing in resources in external relations, that the Groups governance themarkets in which Funding Circle including to educate policy makers, and controls framework is not operates and the uncertain politicalregulators and other influencers on satisfactory given business economic landscape generally.
the features, benefits and impact growth or that there is of platform lending.
business interruption by We have expanded our teams reason of non-compliance focusing on governance and with regulation or the controls, and continue to train all introduction of businessemployees in such matters as impacting regulation.
Reputation brand risk We continue to implement and maintain business practices and Operational or performance Our overall approach to prudent controls focused on reputation failures could lead to management of reputational and management, including: negative publicity that could brand risk remains unchanged.
adversely affect the Groups - appraising employees against brand, business, results, our core values and behaviours: operations, financial - ensuring Risk and Compliance condition or prospects.
Committee consideration of new or iterated products and initiatives: - undertaking specific projects to address identified risk topics and issues: and - updating and refining our approach to issue and risk identification and management.
Client detriment Improvements have been madetothe way in which loan Funding Circles activities or Ensuring positive customer outcomes performance isreported and the failure to satisfactorily continues to be a fundamental priority additional oversight and controls perform its activities could for Funding Circle.
impact the delivery of fair customer outcomes.
Investments have been made inour Compliance Testing and Monitoring and Internal Audit functions, and customer-impacting topics have been the subject of review for example data privacy, complaints handling and salesconduct.
42 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from externalevents.
KEY RISKS MANAGEMENT OF RISK CHANGE IN RISK IN YEAR Information security Our Chief Information Security Officer is responsible formanaging information Failure to protectthe security and technology risk by Through our Information Security confidential information formulating security and technology Roadmap, we continue to make ofFunding Circles borrowers, policies and performing security significant progress on mitigating investors and IT systems may penetration tests and other assurance our top information security risks lead to financial loss, activities to protect Funding Circle with a focus on data protection, reputational damage and client information and other assets.
Theestablishment of the Technology The Board Risk and Compliance Security and Risk Committee Committee and Executive Risk ensures oversight over the mitigation Committee review our key information of key risks in this area.
security risks to ensure that they are within risk appetite.
We have a dedicated Information Security team which has implemented a robust, multi-layered security infrastructure that includes prevention and detective controls.
Financial crime The Board has adopted policies to Risk of regulatory breach, address financial crimes that have Complying with the laws and financial loss or reputational been implemented by Business regulations designed to counter damage arising from a failure to Unitsthrough formal standards money laundering, terrorist adequately manage or prevent andprocedures.
financing, corruption and bribery money laundering, terrorist We have a dedicated Financial Crimes isfundamental to Funding financing, bribery and Operations team within the first line Circlesoperations.
corruption, or to comply with ofdefence that is advised, challenged sanctions regulations.
and monitored by the second line Compliance team.
Technology risk The Board Risk and Compliance Committee and Executive Risk Failure of the technology Our migration to Amazon Web Committee review our key technology platform could have a material Services data centres has allowed risks to ensure that they are within adverse impact on Funding for mitigation of some of our key riskappetite.
Circles business, results of technology risks for migrated operations, financial condition We invest significantly in the Groups applications.
technology infrastructure to ensure ofthe Technology Security and Risk that the platform is resilient and Committee ensures oversight over scalable to support business growth.
the mitigation of key risks in this area.
Key risk indicators are reviewed as part of the Operational Risk Committee.
We have a dedicated Information Technology Risk team that is responsible for risk oversight andgovernance.
