Strategic report Risk management Growing a global scalable andsustainable business Risk management sits at the heart of our business.
We recognise that effective management of all key risks is critical to meet our strategic objectives and to achieve sustainable long-term growth.
These need to be identified, understood and appropriately addressed to protect the Company, our customers and fellow Circlers.
At Funding Circle, our approach is for all employees, regardless Risk governance of their position, to play their part in managing risk within the Funding Circle has a risk governance framework that is business.
Our Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF documented in the ERMF.
Responsibility for defining and defines a common approach to risk management, with clear approving the ERMF lies with the Funding Circle Holdings plc roles and responsibilities, and provides the foundations for a Board.
The risk governance framework includes delegations of strong risk culture and control environment.
authority from the Group Board, the UK Board and Principal Risk Committees as appropriate.
We have adopted best practices in corporate governance and risk management, appropriate to the size, nature and complexity We operate a Three Lines of Defence model across all of our business.
We annually review our risk strategy and risk marketsin which we operate.
Our Chief Risk Officer CRO, appetite framework across the Company to continually adapt Jerome Le Luel, leads the Group Risk function, which is our practices to the evolving profile of our business.
independent from Funding Circles operational and commercial functions.
He is responsible for developing, Risk appetite maintaining and implementing the ERMF.
He is also Our risk appetite is defined as the level of risk that we, as responsible for providing assurance to the Board and theCompany, are prepared to accept whilst pursuing our core Directors that the principal risks are appropriately managed business strategy, recognising a range of possible outcomes and that Funding Circle is operating within risk appetite.
as business plans are implemented.
The Funding Circle We have identified four principal risks: Holdings plc Board sets the risk appetite and reviews the Company risk profile against risk appetite.
Risk appetite - strategic risk: provides a guideline for shaping business strategies and - credit risk: defining the level of controls needed.
It also provides a basis for ongoing dialogue between management and the Board - operational risk: and with respect to Funding Circles current and evolving risk profile, - reputation and conduct risk.
allowing strategic and financial decisions to be made on an informed basis.
These four principal risks represent a detailed taxonomy ofkey risks.
36 Funding Circle Holdings plc Direct access to FC Board Strategic report Funding Circles Three Lines of Defence model and risk governance structure have been designed to manage these four principal risks in a consistent manner across the Company, as set out below.
Three Lines of Defence FC CEO FC Board Global General First line UK MD US MD CE MD Global CRO Counsel Credit Investor Second line UK CRO US CRO CE CRO ERM quality analytics Compliance European US monitoring compliance compliance andtesting Third line Internal Audit Risk governance structure Funding Circle Holdings plc Board Funding Circle Holdings plc Board Risk UK Board andCompliance Committee Executive Risk Committee Credit Risk Reputation and Technology Security Risk Operational Risk Disclosure Management Conduct Risk Sub-committee Committee Committee Committee Committee The Boards Risk and Compliance Committee is supported by the Reputation and Conduct Risk Committee Executive Risk Committee ERC comprising the Funding The Reputation and Conduct Risk Committee focuses on the Circle Global Leadership Team.
The ERC has sub-committees management of regulatory, reputation and conduct risks and focused on each principal risk, as set out below.
also oversees new product approvals.
Executive Risk Committee Operational Risk Committee The Executive Risk Committee meets on a quarterly basis and The focus of the Operational Risk Committee is to ensure that reviews all principal risks across the Group.
Strategic risks are operational controls are effective and that operational and directly supervised and managed by the leadership team of each financial crime risks are adequately managed in each Business Unit and reviewed at the Executive Risk Committee.
Credit Risk Management Committee Disclosure Committee Credit Risk Management Committees are held monthly in The Board has delegated to the Disclosure Committee each Business Unit.
They focus on ensuring that the credit responsibility for overseeing the disclosure of information by riskexposure of each Business Unit isadequately managed.
Funding Circle to meet its obligations under the Market Abuse Regulations, the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
37 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Risk management continued Risk culture Risk assessment framework At Funding Circle, we believe that an open and strong risk A standard risk assessment framework is used to evaluate culture encourages ethical behaviour and professional risks at both the Business Unit and Group levels, enabling conduct.
We promote our risk culture as part of our ongoing consistent measurement.
Risk assessments are carried out effort to reinforce our Company values and have a Group-wide by those individuals, teams and departments that are best programme of Doing the Right Thing every day for our placed to identify and assess the potential risks.
They are customers, employees and community.
supported in this process by our Risk and Compliance teams.
We typically follow the evaluate respond monitor methodology: 1 1.
Evaluate - Identify key risks - Set risk appetite - Assess adequacy ofexistingcontrols - Estimate residual risk 2.
Respond - Design control improvement plans Enterprise risk - Prioritise remediation work  management 3.
Monitor - Track business performance vsriskappetite - Report, analyse and escalate riskincidents 3 2 - Identify new emerging risks - Track delivery of agreed controlimprovements Evaluate - stop the existing activity do not start the proposed activity to remove the risk: or As part of its responsibilities under the ERMF the Board has formally recognised a series of risks that are continuously - continue the activity and lay off the risk to another party present in Funding Circle and can materially affect the e. g. insurance.
achievement of Funding Circles objectives.
These risks have Monitor been organised under a consistent and simple taxonomy with a hierarchy of risk categories, which facilitates risk management Monitoring and reporting on Funding Circles risk exposures and oversight.
The management of these risks is assigned to are undertaken through risk governance structures.
The Board clear business owners who formally assess on a regular basis Risk and Compliance Committee RCC receives a consolidated the level of these risks, the adequacy of controls and the need risk report no less than three times a year detailing the risks facing for further mitigations.
the Group and mitigation plans, as well as risk outlook.
The RCC is also provided with metrics and regular reports about Respond the activities of the Risk and Compliance functions.
The appropriate risk response ensures that risks are kept within appetite.
At Funding Circle we see four types of possible Risk assurance risk responses: Assurance on the management of risk is provided by the - accept the risk: Three Lines of Defence model and the Funding Circle Internal Audit function.
We also execute external annual controls - take mitigation actions such as additional risk controls assurance e. g. United Kingdom ISAE3402 and United States toreduce the risk: SOC1 Type 2 reports certified by auditors in various geographies in which we operate.
