RISK MANAGEMENT AND OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS Our aim is to identify material risks that could impact us, and to focus management attention on effective mitigation of the significant risks to achievement of our strategic objectives and safeguard our reputation.
An evolving risk landscape What we did in 2018 Evolution of the risk landscape in 2018 was similar to Progress continued to be made on increasing risk 2017 with political leadership in several countries awareness and accountability for risk management on causing uncertainty, continuing terrorism, weakening the part of business management teams.
The Groups economic recovery, geopolitical shifts, and on-going mandated control standards have been further instability in the Middle East.
Environmental, cyber and enhanced to ensure they address our key risks, with data privacy risks have gained prevalence and their appropriate training and challenge to facilitate their potential to disrupt business has increased.
Control self-assessments Thesefactors have created risks and opportunities for were completed by all businesses.
These are the security industry.
G4S continues to face the reviewed, challenged and best practice shared by operational and health and safety risks often region and group functional experts, with compliance associated with the security industry, along with tested through internal audits.
Our quarterly Regional financial and commercial risks common to all Audit Committees continued to focus on financial multinational companies.
Regulations continue to be judgments and addressing internal and external audit tightened with high penalties for non-compliance.
findings, which enabled further improvement in financial control awareness and effective performance We continue to believe the risk to G4S from the UKs of risk mitigating controls.
decision to leave the EU is unlikely to have a material direct impact on G4S as we mainly operate within What we will do in 2019 national boundaries with around 80% of total Group We will continue to refine our standards and controls, revenues outside the UK and minimal cross-border and through support and training, we will help trading.
However, the continued political uncertainty businesses operate them effectively.
Functional teams over the terms of the UKs exit from the EU and the will use the results of control self-assessments to assist shape of any future trading relationship is one of a countries with achieving compliance.
In addition, range of business factors that could affect us including internal audits will continue to test the operational the availability of labour, supply of product, wage and effectiveness of our standards and controls.
Regional inflationary impacts, regulations and taxation.
It is also Audit Committees will continue to review, challenge possible that the continuing uncertainty will have an and direct improvements in the performance of adverse impact on economic growth in the UK and control standards, financial judgments and reporting.
Europe, further affecting both our customers and Through continued engagement and review by ourcompetitors.
country, region and group management, we will We continue to monitor global emerging risks enhance the quality and timeliness of the identification through our risk and governance framework.
of emerging risks and the delivery of mitigatingactions.
Actions planned for 2019 for specific residual risks are included in the principal risk section below.
64 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 The review of separation options for our Secure G4S operates in high-risk areas of business, in which Solutions and Cash Solutions businesses, to establish our core competence and value-add to customers is two independent businesses that are able to take managing those risks effectively.
We have a higher risk advantage of their leading market positions to deliver appetite for growing and transforming our businesses sustainable profitable growth and unlock substantial where we have the expertise to deliver and to shareholder value may introduce new challenges to achieve a good commercial return for the risk we G4S in the short term.
These could include: not areaccepting.
identifying a successful value-adding proposition: We have a low to very low risk appetite for nondistracting management attention from delivering compliance with laws and regulations, culture and results: disruption to existing transformation projects: values, health and safety and people risks, as these and reduced focus on control and risk mitigation.
In arepriority areas for our stakeholders and failure in order to manage these challenges we will obtain these key risk areas could have a material impact on appropriate external advice, establish internal our business.
governance structures and maintain focus on trading reviews and close monitoring of other core aspects of business performance and service delivery.
Risk management and appetite As in prior years we have undertaken a bottom-up review, with businesses completing an assessment of their major risks and developing mitigating actions to reduce the likelihood of those risks crystallising.
Thesereviews require management teams to identify the key controls needed to mitigate high inherent risks to acceptable residual risk levels, in line with the Groups risk appetite, further encouraging effective compliance with the Groups core standards and controls.
These risk assessments are reviewed, challenged and amended as necessary by regional teams, who are also responsible for monitoring delivery of required improvements.
This is combined with a top-down review from Group functional leaders, to ensure that the risks captured are complete and appropriately assessed.
The risks are then summarised and presented to the Risk Committee for consideration before being presented to the board for review.
Theresulting principal residual risks, with explanations and mitigating actions, are outlined on pages 67 to 71.
TheGroups risk appetite has remained unchanged from the prior year and this was reaffirmed by the Risk Committee and the board during the year.
Theresidual risks in respect of growth strategy and laws and regulations has increased from last year but has remained relatively constant in other principal riskareas.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 65 RISK MANAGEMENT AND OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE MODEL BOARD The board has responsibility for ensuring risk management processes are effective by reviewing the most critical risks and controls.
RISK COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Risk Committee meets four times per year and reviews the The Audit Committee meets four times per year and ensures Groups risk appetite, assesses the Groups principal risks and the Groups control framework is operating effectively.
assesses the overall enterprise risk management process.
GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGIONAL AUDIT COMMITTEES The Group Executive Committee oversees the management of the The committees meet four times a year, also attended by the Groups principal risks.
The progress of closing internal and external auditfindings: and 2.
Reports on status of financial controls andsignificant accounting judgments.
GROUP AND REGIONAL ETHICS COMMITTEES The committees are responsible for whistleblowing and related investigations across the regions.
OPERATING COMPANIES AND SHARED-SERVICE FUNCTIONS Our operating companies and shared-service planning process with updates made in senior functions identify and assess the risks to achievement management team meetings and trading reviews.
of their business objectives and plan appropriate Self-assessments of compliance with Group control mitigating actions.
These are recorded in our standards are completed annually bi-annually Group-wide risk management tools.
review is conducted as part of the annual business Operating companies 1ST LINE: BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT We employ Responsibility for the first line sits with the managers Result: Ensures standards expected by the Group, three lines of our businesses, whether line management our customers and other stakeholders are met.
The senior management team within to control and each business is responsible for implementing and manage risks maintaining appropriate controls across across the theirbusiness.
2ND LINE: CONTROL AND OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS The second line consists of oversight functions at Result: Provides support to business managers.
both regional and Group level including: risk, finance, legal, human resources, operations, information technology, commercial and CSR.
3RD LINE: INTERNAL INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE The third line comprises the internal audit function.
Result: Provides independent assurance over the Aspart of its annual programme of work, internal design and operation of controls.
audit conducts regular reviews of risk management processes and gives advice and recommendations on how to improve the control environment.
EXTERNAL AUDIT Financial reporting risks are considered as part of the external audit.
66 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Risk During 2018 we continued the roll-out of safety Principal risk induction training, which included a focus on the risks The provision of security services, often in hostile or facing security officers.
Four wide-ranging H&S reviews dangerous circumstances, presents health and safety HEALTH AND were conducted in high-priority businesses, as well as H&S challenges.
In addition to the significant impact SAFETY H&S two follow-up audits to monitorimprovement.
on individuals, serious H&S incidents could disrupt the Groups businesses, have a negative impact on our Safety improvement plans are required for all Link to strategy reputation and lead to financial and regulatory costs.
businesses, with business leaders being responsible for In2018, 24 2017: 25 employees lost their lives in leading safety performance, developing and monitoring work-related incidents, of which 14 2017: 8 were as action plans and putting H&S at the forefront of their aresult of armed attacks and 7 2017: 11 were day-to-day activities.
road-traffic incidents, as the year-on-year improvement Good practice and progress in delivering H&S in road safety continued.
There were 9 2017: 3 improvements are recognised and rewarded, while non-natural deaths of people in our custody.
poor practice and insufficient progress lead to close executive scrutiny, and can impact performance-related Risk mitigation pay for business leaders.
We are committed to protecting the health, safety and well being of our employees, people in our care or Mitigation priorities for 2019 custody and third parties.
G4S uses a systematic We will continue to refine our standards, policies and approach to managing H&S which is consistent with controls where we see an opportunity to reduce H&S internationally recognised standards.
We monitor H&S risks further, using lessons learned from serious performance regularly and intervene if performance incidents to drive actions to prevent recurrence.
does not meet the continuous improvement targets Compliance with our standards will continue to be set.
The Groups mandatory standards target the monitored through self assessments, region and Group critical safety risks in the Group including road and reviews and internal audits.
Topics which will be firearm safety, and are supplemented by controls and prioritised are risk assessment processes, training on training for front line staff through to business leaders.
road safety and improving controls to prevent attacks.
The annual self assessment by countries of compliance with our standards is supported by site reviews from local, regional and group managers and is included in the scope of country internal audit visits.
Principal risk Risk In the event that employees notice unethical behaviour contrary to our values we encourage them to use our G4S provides security for people, premises and CULTURE AND confidential whistleblowing facility, Speak Out.
The Care & Justice Services business VALUES provides services to detainees, victims of crime, people In 2018, we received 519 Speak Out reports 2017: needing assistance, and other members of the public.
300 as we continue to raise awareness of this facility.
Link to strategy We operate in many different countries with a diversity While all calls are investigated, matters of a serious of local and national cultures.
Having an appropriate set nature are investigated at a senior and independent of values deeply embedded in our corporate culture is level, with 105 investigations completed during 2018 key to ensuring that employees meet our expectations 2017: 59. including compliance with our ethical business conduct standards.
Failure to do so risks notdelivering on our Mitigation priorities for 2019 commitment to our colleagues, customers and other For our front-line employees, we will continue to stakeholders, and businesses failing to comply with provide updated training materials to reinforce the legislation and .
behaviours expected in line with our values and will use the global employee engagement survey, due to Risk mitigation be completed in 2019, to assess levels of awareness Our values, detailed on page 6, are continually and understanding.
Where gaps are identified we will reinforced through a variety of processes including develop remediation plans.
recruitment, induction training and recognition All new managers will be required to complete schemes, as well as communication materials.
Our theonline training developed in 2018 and to confirm values-based training materials for front-line employees their understanding of and commitment to compliance have been developed to reflect common experiences with the Groups Business Ethics Policy.
Further or particular challenges which are identified through People and values updated training on anti-bribery and corruption will whistleblowing cases, internal grievances or feedback Customers also be made available to all managers and employees from the global employee engagement survey.
and service excellence with responsibilities relating to financial transactions or Technology Nominated values ambassadors in businesses are helping supplier and customer relationships.
and innovation to cascade values-related communications.
Formanagers, Our reward and recognition schemes will continue to Operational excellence the enhanced competency framework has helped guide and productivity be aligned with our values, to ensure they are the development of mandatory online training.
This also promoted in everything we do.
The Group-wide Financial and uses realistic scenarios to guide managers in making value scheme will be enhanced to supplement local efforts commercial discipline based decisions from a range of options in order to and enable us to showcase the types of behaviour achieve the right outcomes in real-life situations.
We which exemplify our values and reflect the great work continue to build awareness ofthe importance of living that our employees do.
our values in our day-to-dayactivities, no matter how challenging the circumstances.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 67 RISK MANAGEMENT AND OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk and build succession plans.
We also deliver regional Principal risk leadership programmes to nurture talented individuals In a global and diverse security business such as ours, early in their careers, and help them develop into there are risks associated with recruiting, training, PEOPLE more senior roles as they move through the engaging, rewarding and managing people, as well as organisation.
Feedback from our global employee ensuring we retain critical talent to deliver increasingly survey is used to develop initiatives which support sophisticated services through our 546,000 Link to strategy employee engagement and development at all levels employees.
Screening and vetting is a particular of the organisation.
Examples include the introduction challenge in some territories which lack supporting of two health and wellbeing initiatives for employees infrastructure from the relevant authorities.
in G4S Peru, the development of a new employee Anyincident where our people fail to meet the handbook in the UAE and the launch of a new expectations of customers and other stakeholders quarterly briefing by managers for employees in the could lead to financial and reputational damage.
Whilst our controls are robust, we still face the risk of an employee not behaving in line with our values.
Staff turnover is a key indicator of employee satisfaction, and reducing it improves service standards Risk mitigation and reduces recruitment costs.
During the year staff The Groups Human Resource HR standards cover turnover reduced from 25.3% in 2017 to 24.7% in core requirements for delivering the HR strategy, such 2018 see page 20. as ensuring there are effective organisational Mitigation priorities for 2019 structures in place, that employees are screened, inducted and trained to perform their jobs, and that Compliance with our core HR Standards will again be self there are appropriate mechanisms in place for assessed during 2019 and reviewed by local, regional and managing ongoing performance and recognising Group teams as well as tested by internal audit.
Compliance is self-assessed support will be provided as necessary to enhance annually and reviewed by local, regional and Group compliance with our standards.
Additionally, core HR controls are tested by training is being prepared to ensure HR teams have a internal audit during visits to the businesses.
strong understanding of the core standards, why they are Theperformance and potential of managers across important and what actions they need to take to ensure the Group is reviewed to identify development needs compliance if there are any gaps.
Principal risk Risk Mitigation priorities for 2019 MAJOR CONTRACTS The Group operates a number of long-term, While improvements have been made in reducing the complex, high-value contracts with multinational risk of taking on onerous contracts, as the impact can companies, governments or strategic partners.
Key be significant, we will continue to enhance the quality risks include: accepting onerous contractual terms: of the analysis used in the bidding process and ensure Link to strategy poor mobilisation of contracts: not transitioning that lessons are learnt from underperforming effectively from mobilisation to on-going contract contracts.
Internal audit will perform more contract management: not delivering contractual requirements: reviews to ensure the risks in those contracts are inaccurate billing for complex contracts: ineffective appropriately mitigated.
contract-change management: and not managing sub-contractors appropriately.
Risk mitigation We have strict thresholds for the approval of major bids, involving detailed legal and commercial review and senior management oversight.
For a selection of our most significant contracts in the UK, independent reviews of all aspects of contract management and performance are completed with appropriate actions agreed and monitored to completion.
We also perform a quarterly financial review of the top 25 and the low margin contracts in each region.
For our large multinational customers, account managers oversee performance of these contracts across relevant countries and have regular updates with customers to ensure we meet our contractual commitments.
We have embedded into the Salesforce opportunity management tool our updated approval requirements, to make compliance and monitoring more effective.
68 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Risk appropriate plans to respond.
G4S continues to liaise Principal risk with relevant governments and authorities to G4S operates under many complex and diverse influence positively the regulatory environments in regulatory frameworks, some of which have LAWS AND which we work.
extraterritorial reach and many where regulations REGULATIONS change frequently.
Risks include: new or changed Mitigation priorities for 2019 restrictions on foreign ownership: difficulties obtaining Link to strategy Given the increased exposure and high penalties for relevant licences to operate: complying with non-compliance in respect of this risk, the board and employment legislation covering a wide range of Executive team will focus as a priority on the requirements: complying with often complex and enhancement of compliance with laws and regulations broad ranging local tax regulations: increasing litigation across all jurisdictions we operate in.
This will include and class actions: bribery and corruption and direct enquiry and oversight by Group and region of complying with human rights legislation.
Failure to local management to ensure awareness of these risks meet the required standards can lead to higher costs become fully understood and ensure that concerns from claims and litigation: inability to operate in are addressed appropriately with mitigation plans certain jurisdictions, through either direct implemented promptly.
ownershipor joint ventures: loss of management control: damage to our reputation: and loss of customer confidence.
The investigation opened by the Serious Fraud Office SFO in 2013 in respect of the Groups Electronic Monitoring contract remains on-going and the Group continues to engage and co-operate fully with the investigation.
Based on currently available information, the Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the financial effect of the SFOs investigation, and no provision has been made in respect of it.
Risk mitigation Our policies and procedures clearly set out the requirement for local management teams to comply with relevant laws and regulations.
Group and regional leadership, together with our Ethics Committees at Group and regional level provide oversight and support our businesses in mitigating the risks.
Group legal and regional leadership closely monitor changes in foreign ownership laws and make People and values Customers and service excellence Technology and innovation Operational excellence and productivity Financial and commercial discipline Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 69 RISK MANAGEMENT AND OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk Through the diversity of industries and markets we Principal risk serve and the portfolio of products offering costOur focus is on investing in the development of efficient solutions, we are able to mitigate the risk of innovative and integrated products and services and GROWTH STRATEGY local reduced growth opportunities.
We focus our improving business efficiency to strengthen service investment on innovative products and transforming excellence and support improved margins.
There are our cost base, with projects closely monitored by risks with adopting such a strategy: that we fail to Link to strategy Group and regional teams.
create higher-value solutions that differentiate us from local commoditised competitors: that we fail to Mitigation priorities for 2019 deliver our core services effectively and consistently: Secure Solutions and Cash Solutions arestrong that we lose contracts or growth opportunities businesses with clear strategies and prospects.
In through price competition and market changes: that 2019, we will review the options for separation of we fail to enter target markets successfully: that we these into two independent businesses, ensuring become over reliant on large customers: and that our evengreater focus on customers and innovation.
business transformation initiatives do not deliver as expected.
The new sales methodology will continue to focus on customer need and how our innovative and Risk mitigation integrated service will add value and drive increased We continue to focus on delivering excellent service win rates.
To improve customer retention rates we through the best-practice service delivery guidelines will systematically leverage the existing structural inplace for both our Secure Solutions and Cash approach we have to understanding customers Solutions service lines.
We have implemented a sales requirements to proactively improve relationships and methodology focused on consultative selling which customer satisfaction.
We will continue to innovate enables our sales teams to promote innovative our product offering within each business, which will integrated solutions.
We use our centres of include: proprietary security systems, video and excellence to develop innovative solutions for intelligent camera systems, video management customers, particularly in electronic security and Retail systems, global security intelligence systems, and Cash Solutions.
We leverage our global network to software tools including incident-management systems offer integrated solutions internationally and our such as RISK360 in our Secure Solutions business.
global accounts programme supports and promotes ForCash Solutions, our service offering will include our multinational accounts initiatives.
Our consistent Retail Cash Solutions and solutions for our SME focus on delivering excellent service to customers customers.
helps to drive customer satisfaction, retention Business transformation projects will be embedded andgrowth.
toensure efficiency and margin improvements aredelivered.
Principal risk Our Risk Management business has particular Risk expertise in providing secure solutions in very GEOPOLITICAL We operate in many countries across the world, with high-risk, low-infrastructure environments.
wide-ranging government and political structures, different cultures with varying degrees of compliance We have a clear commitment to respect human with laws and human rights, particularly within conflict Link to strategy rights.
All business units are required to annually and post-conflict zones.
Associated risk factors self-assess their compliance with human rights include: political volatility, including the outcome of standards which are reviewed by the Group and elections and referendums affecting trade rules and included in internal audits for the higher risk countries.
regulations and changes in policies towards business, We have also built awareness of human rights revolution, terrorism, and military intervention, and responsibilities across the business and our partners mistreatment of migrant workers and employees and are increasing engagement with suppliers to working for our suppliers.
These risks impact us in ensure they are also complying with international many ways: the health and safety of our staff and human rights standards.
This is governed by a customers: the continued operation of our businesses: mandatory supplier code of conduct which includes and the ability to secure our assets and deliver good anti-bribery and modern slavery requirements.
Mitigation priorities for 2019 Risk mitigation In markets where potential government policy or In markets where policy or trade agreements have a trade agreements may have a significant impact on significant impact on our ability totrade we engage our ability to trade we will continue to engage with with governments to promote the benefits that G4S governments to promote the benefits that G4S bringsto a market and an economy, to ensure that brings.
We will continue to monitor the results of we minimise potential adverse impacts of trade human rights control self assessments, providing restrictions or trade policy.
support with training and guidance where needed to further embed awareness and understanding of We collaborate with local partners, conduct early risk expectations.
We will also continue to increase assessments before and during security assignments, engagement with suppliers to ensure their compliance develop robust operating procedures and work with human rights standards.
closely with our local and global customers in managing the risks of operating in such environments.
70 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Risk Mitigation priorities for 2019 Principal risk Increased regulations and sanctions relating to the We will augment the cyber toolset with new network potential failure to secure sensitive and confidential management systems as well as a global programme INFORMATION data, which we are entrusted with by customers, staff, to migrate legacy data processing systems to the SECURITY suppliers and other stakeholders, have increased our Cloud.
By moving our data processing systems to the risks in this area.
Like all organisations, we face cyber Cloud we will establish a global standard for disaster Link to strategy attacks from a variety of sources which, if successful, recovery using the latest technologies available.
could result in censure and fines by national Theprogramme of cloud migration will be complete governments, loss of confidence in the G4S brand by mid-2020.
and specific loss of trust by customers, especially those in government and financial sectors.
Additionally, we face the risk of disruption to service delivery and data loss from system failures, incomplete backup routines, and inadequate business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
Risk mitigation The IT function is centrally managed to control the way our systems are supported and run.
We have 'defence-in-depth' technologies i. e. multiple layers ofdefence in key systems to protect information entrusted to us.
This helps to ensure policies and standards are applied consistently across all operatingbusinesses.
A programme of investment incyber defence tools was delivered during 2018 which has strengthened the security of our IT systems and infrastructure, including managed cyber security products, centralised infrastructure management toolsand cyber vulnerability assessments.
We haveintroduced standards and guidance to ensurecompliance with the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR across the UK and Europe.
Principal risk Risk these standards are performed twice a year by each branch and country head office.
Compliance is We provide a wide range of cash management CASH LOSSES supported and monitored by regional teams and services, including cash processing, fit-sorting of notes through internal audit.
We also have clearly defined for recycling, holding funds on behalf of customers, standards for physical cash security for our employees, secure storage, ATM services, as well as transporting Link to strategy vehicles and processing centres.
The Group, region high values of cash and valuables including and local cash security teams are responsible for international shipments.
Our Retail Cash Solutions monitoring compliance with these through selfoffering can provide a full outsourcing of the cash assessments of Mandatory Security Principles cycle.
Our cash business face risks related to external performed by local management There are processes attacks, internal theft, gaps in cash reconciliations and in place for monitoring attacks and other cash losses weak management supervision, which could lead to to ensure lessons learned are communicated across loss of profit, increased cost of insurance and health the Group.
Innovative security-defence products such and safety considerations for our staff and the public.
as cash box tracking, vehicle protection foam and protective boxes are used in a number of businesses.
Risk mitigation The introduction of the Global Cash Solutions Mitigation priorities for 2019 divisionin 2018 has given us additional focus to drive The recently implemented merger of cash improvement in the effective performance of physical People and values reconciliation and physical cash security teams, will security and cash reconciliations throughout our cash Customers provide greater focus on these key controls across businesses, to reduce both the number and value and service excellence our cash businesses.
In addition we will refine both oflosses.
Technology sets of controls to ensure they are relevant and and innovation Our Reconciliation and Operational Cash Controls efficient and there will be more reviews to check continue to be implemented across our cash Operational excellence compliance by both regional teams and internal audit.
and productivity businesses with direct support from regions and Group to ensure awareness and effective Financial and commercial discipline performance improvement.
Self assessments against Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 71
