22 Galliford Try plc Principal risks Managing risk and uncertainty to deliver business performance The ability to identify, assess and manage risks and uncertainties is critical to achieving our strategy of sustainable growth and is an integral element of our management processes.
Each business unit maintains a risk register, Our approach to risk Risk management governance which captures the principal risks applicable to and internal controls structure and process that business, the key mitigations in place and Risks and uncertainties are inherent to the The Groups risk management and governance what further action is required to manage the markets in which we compete, the regulatory structure, as shown below, highlights the way risk.
The business unit Board reviews the risk environment in which we operate and the in which risks are identified, reported and register twice a year.
One of these reviews is operational activities we perform in pursuit of managed within the frameworks set out by facilitated by the Group Risk and Internal Audit our strategy.
Our risk appetite, defined as the the Board.
It is designed to facilitate both a function and includes an assessment of the nature and level of risks that we are prepared bottom-up and top-down view of risk.
The likelihood and impact of each risk using defined to be exposed to, is discussed and agreed by the Board has delegated implementation of risk risk assessment criteria and interactive voting Board and is expressed in our Group strategy.
management and internal control, together software.
The same methodology and review This attitude to risk is then applied by the with their day-to-day operation, to the Groups process is used to identify and assess the key businesses and business units in their annual Executive management.
The process is risks at a business level.
business plans and day-to-day operations.
overseen by the Executive Risk Committee, The Executive Risk Committee meets three For example, at Group level, we have stated which is chaired by the General Counsel and times a year and reviews the latest versions that we will not bid for large, fixed-price Company Secretary, and is managed on a of each of the three business risk registers.
construction contracts that carry an day-to-day basis by the Director of Risk and Following each Risk Committee, the Group unacceptable level of risk.
At the business unit Internal Audit.
The Risk and Internal Audit risk register is updated by the Director of level, this appetite informs how opportunities function plays an integral role in facilitating the Risk and Internal Audit and reviewed by the are assessed and is enforced through the identification, reporting and management of Executive Board and plc Board.
governance and review controls over bidding.
risk throughout the governance structure.
The Board also has overall responsibility for maintaining oversight of the Groups processes Risk management governance structure for identifying, assessing, managing and reporting on principal risks and the system of internal controls designed to manage them.
Responsibility, The Board has reviewed the principal risks policy, oversight plc Board Audit Committee and uncertainties, including those that and review would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, together with the key mitigations in place, and the most significant risks are presented on pages 24 Executive Board and 25.
There may be other risks and Identification, uncertainties besides those listed which management, may also adversely affect the Group and its monitoring and reporting performance.
In addition to the ongoing processes for monitoring our principal risks, Executive Risk Committee Group Services during the year, the Board also carried out a Risk and comprehensive assessment of the general risk Internal Audit factors relating to the Group, which were function included in the rights issue prospectus.
Business Boards The Audit Committee has reviewed the risk management process and internal control Linden Partnerships & Construction framework, together with the findings of the Homes Regeneration Internal Audit function over the past year, which may indicate weaknesses that have had, could have had, or may have in the future, a material impact on the results, and remedial Business unit Boards actions taken.
Based on these assessments, the Board is satisfied with the effectiveness Linden Partnerships & Construction Homes Regeneration of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 23 Financial Statements 2018 The Audit Committee is responsible for keeping Financial planning framework: a detailed under review the adequacy and effectiveness annual budget is prepared for each financial Viability statement of the Groups risk management processes and year, which is approved by the Board.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of systems of internal control, and for reviewing the UK Corporate Governance Code, Operational and financial reporting: an exacting and approving statements included in the the Board has assessed the prospects of profit and cash reporting and forecasting Annual Report concerning internal controls, the Group over a period of three years in regime is in place across the Group.
As well risk management and the Viability statement.
line with its typical business planning and as the emphasis placed on cash flow, income risk management review period.
and balance sheet reporting, health, safety and Internal control framework The Groups budget includes information environmental matters are prioritised within The day-to-day management of our principal in relation to the Groups revenues, profits, monthly operational reports.
risks is supported by an internal control cash flows, dividends, net debt and other framework which is embedded in our Internal Audit: the Group Internal Audit key financial and non-financial metrics.
function develops and delivers an annual The plan considers the potential impact The most significant elements of the programme of internal audits, which includes of the principal risks to the business as Groups internal control framework business unit key controls reviews, audits of described overleaf, the cyclical nature of include the following: business and Group processes and targeted the markets in which the Group operates, risk reviews.
and incorporates an appropriate level of Organisational structure: each business flexibility to mitigate against these risks.
unit is led by a managing director and Assurance provided by non-audit functions: This is achieved through the preparation of management team providing a clear a number of other Group functions provide sensitivity analyses on a range of scenarios, hierarchy and accountabilities.
assurance in areas including, but not limited to, including variations in revenue, house health, safety and environment, legal contract Code of Conduct: the Group promotes a culture prices, sales rates, build costs, cash reviews and compliance, and construction of acting ethically and with demonstrable generation and access to financing.
Group standards are set out in a Based on the results of its review and Code of Conduct which is communicated to Pension plan administration: review of the analysis, the Board has a reasonable all employees and supported by specific funding position of the Groups defined expectation that the Group will be able training modules in key areas.
benefit pension scheme and consideration to continue in operation and meet its of cash contributions by the Group are the Contractual review and commitments: liabilities as they fall due over the responsibility of the Board.
The administration the Group has clearly defined policies and three-year period of its assessment.
of the Groups fully closed final salary and procedures for entering into contractual ongoing defined contribution pension plan is commitments which apply across its business outsourced to professional service providers.
units and operations and are enforced through Each of the final salary schemes has an the Groups legal authorities matrix.
independent scheme secretary and a proportion of independent trustees to Investment in land and development: provide additional layers of external scrutiny.
land expenditure approval is subject to clearly defined policies and procedures, with significant investments approved at Executive Board and Board levels under Group policies and procedures.
Operational activity: site operations are performed in line with established business management systems and processes that incorporate all operational activities, including health, safety and environmental procedures, regular performance monitoring, quality management and external accountability to stakeholders.
24 Galliford Try plc Principal risks continued 1 2 3 Strategic priority Strategic priority Strategic priority Drive operating efficiencies, so we increase margins, Maintain capital discipline, so we appropriately invest Operate sustainably, so we create longer-term respond faster to changing market conditions and have in growth opportunities, maintain a robust balance value by balancing financial performance with our strong foundations for delivering further top-line growth.
sheet and continue to pay strong dividends.
obligations to all our stakeholders.
Description of inherent risks Golden Rules and H&S database implemented in 2015 16 and Health and Safety A significant safety incident at one of the Groups developments the award-winning Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour H&S or a general deterioration in the Groups H&S standards could put safety programme help to reduce risk in this area.
the Groups employees, subcontractors or the general public at Key risk indicators Movement in the year risk of injury or death and could lead to litigation, significant Increase in near misses and injuries.
penalties or damage to the Groups reputation.
Link to strategy Actions in 2017 18 Mitigation Restructured the H&S function so that it is aligned with 3 We have operational controls in place, including an H&S site risk each of our three businesses.
This will facilitate the delivery assessment for every site.
We have processes in place which allow of a service that is more tailored to each business needs, us to respond promptly and appropriately to incidents.
Both the supporting them to meet their objectives.
Description of inherent risks We manage our financial gearing by setting a maximum Economic The Groups businesses could be adversely affected by any period-end level of net debt, and minimum facility headroom macro-economic factors that reduce sales prices or transaction buffers, at all times, which we monitor continually.
Movement in the year volumes in the UK residential property market or cause a Key risk indicators reduction or deferment in construction activity.
Link to strategy Interest rate increases.
We manage the potential impact of economic downturn by building a strong order book in our contracting businesses and Unemployment increases.
Actions in 2017 18 Hurdle rates on land acquisitions are strictly applied and are Continued to monitor the likelihood of interest rate rises, regularly reviewed.
sales rates and visitor levels.
Where appropriate, we use joint ventures to reduce capital Developed and rolled out standard house types to reduce employed and share risks.
Conducted early equity raising to pre-empt potential gearing issues arising from AWPR.
Description of inherent risks Key risk indicators Government A reduction in direct government spending on infrastructure Removal of the Help to Buy scheme.
projects such as schools, hospitals and transport, a reduction in Movement in the year A slowdown in public sector tenders.
indirect funding of social housing development or the withdrawal Link to strategy of schemes such as Help to Buy would directly affect our Actions in 2017 18 businesses.
Other government policy initiatives, such as reform Met with key clients and bodies such as the Ministry of Housing, 1 3 of the planning system, changes to public sector procurement or Communities and Local Government and Homes England to changes in tax policy also have the potential to cause disruption in feed back on emerging policy and potential and current issues.
our markets and increase the cost of doing business.
Participated in government initiatives including its leasehold Mitigation consultation, the Letwin review and new National Planning The Group regularly engages with the government and Homes Policy framework.
England, both directly and via our membership of industry Sought to influence plant procurement routes through trade bodies.
Prudent pricing models, increased hurdle rates and other bodies such as Build UK and CECA.
contingencies are built into our land appraisal process, including the removal of any government support.
The Help to Buy scheme has been extended until at least 2021.
Description of inherent risks Key risk indicators Legal and regulatory The legal and regulatory environment in which the Group Increases in whistleblowing.
operates is complex with the business required to comply with Movement in the year Increases in health and safety near misses.
the legislation in relation to a wide range of areas, including Link to strategy bribery and corruption, competition, money laundering, health Actions in 2017 18 and safety, and building regulations.
The introduction of the Continued embedding of the Groups Code of Conduct, 3 General Data Protection Regulation GDPR and new sentencing including quarterly messages from the Chief Executive.
guidelines for health and safety breaches further increase the risk Established a GDPR steering group to manage our programme and consequences of non-compliance.
of activity to address the requirements of the regulation.
Mitigation The Group has comprehensive policies and guidance at every level including the Groups Code of Conduct, mandatory e-learning for all employees, regular legal updates and briefings, six-monthly compliance declarations, and conflicts of interest registers and authorisations.
In addition, an anonymous and independent whistleblowing helpline is available to all staff.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 25 Financial Statements 2018 Description of inherent risks Key risk indicators Commercial A failure to agree appropriate commercial terms or to manage Profit margins.
fixed-price contracts effectively can result in costs not being Movement in the year Slow or difficult cash recovery.
recovered from our clients and therefore reduced profits or, in some cases, losses on projects.
Link to strategy Actions in 2017 18 Developed and implemented a risk-based heat map tool to Mitigation 1 3 support contract selection and bid approval.
We continue to provide management focus on our existing fixed-price contracts, no longer undertake infrastructure Introduced more rigorous controls at the contract acceptance contracts on a fixed-price all-risk basis, and have robust review and project completion stage gates within our business and approval controls for bids and contracts of this kind.
We have enhanced our risk management procedures, bringing greater rigour around contract selection.
Description of inherent risks Key risk indicators Customer Failure to meet the build quality and service expectations of our Customer satisfaction scores decline.
satisfaction and contracting clients or home buyers may damage our reputation Failure to hit key milestones in project plan.
and therefore have an adverse effect on our private sales rates, quality control or ability to win new work, especially in markets where we are Decreased level of client retentions.
reliant on repeat business with key clients.
Movement in the year Actions in 2017 18 Mitigation Developed and implemented a Delivering Excellence quality Link to strategy There are rigorous quality control procedures in place in all three and client satisfaction framework within Construction.
The Linden Way defines our approach to 1 2 3 Continued the focus on customer satisfaction in all divisional delivering an excellent customer experience at each stage in the and business unit Board meetings.
Within our Construction and Partnerships & Regeneration businesses, quality control is embedded within Refocused incentive schemes in Linden Homes and the business management system policies and procedures.
Partnerships & Regeneration to emphasise this priority.
Description of inherent risks and benefits packages to ensure we remain competitive.
People The ability to attract, develop, retain and build relationships with a Our succession planning and talent management processes diverse range of high-quality employees impacts every level of the enable continuity and identification of future leaders.
Movement in the year Group, from developing and building our products to succession Key risk indicators Link to strategy planning for the Board, and is particularly important during a Increase in staff churn.
3 Actions in 2017 18 Mitigation Made a further review of succession plans.
The Group has an established HR strategy based on best practice, Investors in People principles and relevant legislation which, Proactively targeted recruitment into key positions.
among other things, includes the regular review of remuneration Launched agile working practices.
Description of inherent risks The Advantage through Alignment programme in our Supply chain A lack of capacity in key subcontractor trades or materials Construction business facilitates greater engagement markets can cause delays in construction programmes, with our key supply chain partners and provides them Movement in the year reduced quality and increased costs.
with greater visibility of our pipeline of projects.
Link to strategy Mitigation Key risk indicators The Group aims to develop long-term relationships with key Materials and trades shortages.
1 3 suppliers and subcontractors to ensure that we remain a priority Actions in 2017 18 customer when resources and materials are in short supply.
Continued to embed Advantage through Alignment.
Description of inherent risks Key risk indicators Balance sheet Given the nature of our three businesses, cash forecasting Monthly weekly cash forecasts prove to be inaccurate.
strength inevitably includes subjective estimates which carry intrinsic Actions in 2017 18 risk of error.
Poor cash forecasting can impact business planning, Our cash position and forecasts were subject to significant Movement in the year investments and reporting of financial information.
internal and external review as part of the process to prepare Link to strategy Mitigation for the rights issue.
Each business unit reviews its cash forecast monthly and the The eight-week cash forecasting process was the subject 1 2 3 Group prepares a detailed daily cash book for the following of a review by Group Internal Audit.
eight-week period to highlight any risk of intra-month fluctuations.
These forecasts are reviewed at business unit, business and Dividend cover was increased, strengthening the Group level.
