STRATEGIC REPORT continued Risks and uncertainties The board has overall responsibility for ensuring risk is appropriately managed across the Group.
The top seven risks to the Group are reviewed at each board meeting.
The risks are rated as to their business impact and their likelihood of occurring.
In addition, the Group has a disaster recovery plan to ensure ongoing operations are maintained in all circumstances.
The principal risks identified in 2018 19 are discussed below.
These risks are not intended to be an extensive analysis of all risks that may arise but more importantly are the ones that could cause business interruption in the year ahead.
ERP change - as discussed above we are changing our core ERP system in the UK.
This is a complicated project with the risk of widespread business disruption if it is not implemented well.
It is being implemented and managed by a strong internal project team and specialist ERP software consultants.
Recruitment - to always have a world class team to support our fantastic business.
The risk is we compromise and recruit only for skills and not on the personal qualities we need new members of the global team to demonstrate to ensure we deliver our longterm goals.
Supply chain - to deliver a seamless supply of products to our customers.
The risk is that there are unnecessary delays or expense.
Range management - as discussed above we are reviewing our range to ensure that we are exploring all opportunities.
The risk is that we dont fully exploit all the opportunities that are available to us or that we have too much stock.
Our approach to managing this risk is discussed on page 8.
Innovation - to surprise and delight our customers with ever better new miniatures or related products.
The risk is that we become complacent.
IP exploitation - to optimise our Warhammer brands fully in addition to being innovative in our core business.
The risks are that we do harm to the core business or we dont take this opportunity seriously.
Distractions - this is anything else that gets in the way of us delivering our goals.
Games Workshop relies upon the continued availability and integrity of its IT systems.
Our business critical systems are monitored and disaster recovery plans are in place and reviewed to ensure they remain up to date.
The security of our systems is reviewed with software updates applied and equipment updated as required.
We do not consider that we have material solvency or liquidity risks.
Following the UK Government invoking Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon, notifying the European Council of its intention to withdraw from the EU, Games Workshop has reviewed the impact that this may have on the Group.
The key risks relate to the movement of goods from the UK to the EU across all sales channels as well as the recruitment and retention of EU nationals working in the UK.
These risks are being assessed and plans are being reviewed to help mitigate the possible impact of these changes.
In my opinion the greatest risk is the same one that we repeat each year, namely, management.
So long as we have the right people in the right jobs we will be fine.
Problems will arise if the board allows egos and private agendas to rule.
I will do my utmost to ensure that this does not happen.
Summary You can see from these results that our business and our Warhammer Hobby are in good shape.
The response from our customers to our models and games and how we support them has again been fantastic, thank you.
The board continues to believe that the prospects for the business are good.
Kevin Rountree CEO 30 July 2018 12 Games Workshop Group PLC
