12 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES manage them.
We also identified those principal risks which are more likely to GENUS SUPPLIES BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS TO AGRICULTURAL have a short to medium-term impact for the evaluation of our going concern and CUSTOMERS AND IS EXPOSED TO A WIDE RANGE OF RISKS viability assessment.
This is discussed in detail within our viability statement.
The Directors confirm that they have Some of these risks relate to the current We have identified ten principal risks, undertaken a robust assessment of the business operations in our global which we periodically evaluate based on principal risks and uncertainties facing agricultural markets, while others relate an assessment of the likelihood of the Group.
More information on our risk to future commercial exploitation of our occurrence and magnitude of potential management framework can be found in leading-edge R&D programmes.
impact, together with the effectiveness the Corporate Governance Statement on of our risk mitigation controls.
The table pages 52 to 58. below outlines the principal risks and uncertainties facing Genus and how we LINK TO STRATEGY INCREASING GENETIC TARGETING KEY SHARING IN THE CONSIDERED FOR VIABILITY CONTROL AND PRODUCT MARKETS AND VALUEDELIVERED VIABILITY ASSESSMENT ASSESSMENT DIFFERENTIATION SEGMENTS STRATEGIC RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION HOW WE MANAGE RISK STRATEGY VIABILITY RISK CHANGE IN 2018 DEVELOPING PRODUCTS WITH COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Development programmes Dedicated teams align our product development to Reduced.
No change in porcine failto produce best genetics customer requirements.
We use large-scale data and but decreased in bovine, due to for customers.
advanced genomic analysis to ensure we meet our increased access to elite dairy breeding goals.
We frequently measure our performance genetics through the acquisition Increased competition to against competitors in customers systems, to ensure the of fide Novo.
value added by our genetics remains competitive.
CONTINUING TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP INTELLIGEN TECHNOLOGY Failure to manage the Our continued development of the technology and its Reduced.
We successfully technical, production and deployment to new markets is supported by dedicated launched Sexcel, produced financial risks associated with internal resources and agreements with external partners with IntelliGen technology, the rapid development of the and suppliers.
Further patent infringement proceedings and customer acceptance has IntelliGen business.
initiated by STGenetics ST in the US in 2017 are being been strong.
We continue to vigorously defended see note 7 for a description of the increase IntelliGens global The industry response to the 2014 appeal proceedings and the 2017 patent litigation.
deployment and have secured introduction of competition third-party customers.
DEVELOPING AND COMMERCIALISING GENE EDITING TECHNOLOGIES Failure to develop successfully We stay aware of new technology opportunities through No change.
Key initiatives and commercialise gene a wide network of academic and industry contacts.
Our continue to progress through editing technologies due to R&D Portfolio Management Team R&D PMT oversees the R&D life cycle and we technical, intellectual property our own research, ensures we correctly prioritise our maintain the high level of IP, market, regulatory or R&D investments and assesses the adequacy of investment needed to bring financial barriers.
resources and the relevant IP landscapes.
We have theend products to market.
formal collaboration agreements with key partners, to Competitors secure gameensure responsible exploration and development of changing technology.
technologies and the protection of IP.
The Board is updated regularly on key development projects.
CAPTURING VALUE THROUGH ACQUISITIONS Failure to identify appropriate We have a rigorous acquisition analysis and due diligence No change.
The acquisition investment opportunities or to process, with the Board reviewing and signing off all process continues to provide perform sound due diligence.
We also have a structured postvaluable and timely access acquisition integration planning and execution process.
Failure to successfully Our experiences with postintegrate an acquired business.
acquisition integration provide aplatform for integrating newly acquired businesses.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 13 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON RISK DESCRIPTION HOW WE MANAGE RISK STRATEGY VIABILITY RISK CHANGE IN 2018 GROWING IN EMERGING MARKETS Failure to appropriately develop We have a robust organisation, blending local and Increased.
Financial market our business in China and expatriate executives, supported by the global species volatility in certain emerging other emerging markets.
This allows us to grow our business in key markets is increasing.
In China, markets, while managing risks and ensuring we comply trade disputes with the US and with our global standards.
the appearance of African Swine Fever increase uncertainty for the pig industry.
OPERATIONAL RISKS PROTECTING IP Failure to protect our IP could We have a global, cross-functional process to identify and No change.
mean Genus-developed protect our IP.
Our customer contracts and our selection genetic material, methods, of multipliers and joint venture partners include systems and technology appropriate measures to protect our IP.
We maintain IP become freely available to landscape watches and where necessary conduct robust thirdparties.
freedom to operate searches, to identify third-party rights to technology.
ENSURING BIOSECURITY AND CONTINUITY OF SUPPLY Loss of key livestock, owing to We have stringent biosecurity standards, with Increased.
independent reviews throughout the year to ensure disease outbreak in parts of compliance and investigate biosecurity incidents, to thePIC supply chain in the Loss of ability to move animals ensure learning across the organisation.
We continue to or semen freely including review the geographical diversity of our production strengthen our biosecurity across borders due to disease facilities, to avoid over-reliance on single sites.
measures to further reduce this outbreak, environmental inherent risk.
In addition, risks incident or international trade to global trade have increased sanctions and disputes.
compared with the prior year.
Lower demand for our products, due to industry-wide disease outbreaks.
HIRING AND RETAINING TALENTED PEOPLE Failure to attract, recruit, We have a robust talent and succession planning Reduced.
We have been largely develop and retain the global process, including annual assessments of our global successful in recruiting and talent needed to deliver our talent pool and active leadership development retaining the appropriate skills R&D programmes and growth programmes.
The Groups reward and remuneration to meet our business growth plans in our chosen markets.
policies are reviewed regularly, to ensure their plans.
We work closely with a number of specialist recruitment agencies, to identify candidates with the skills we need.
FINANCIAL RISKS MANAGING AGRICULTURAL MARKET AND COMMODITY PRICES VOLATILITY Fluctuations in agricultural We continuously monitor markets and seek to balance Increased.
Agricultural markets affect customer our costs and resources in response to market demand.
commodities are being targeted profitability and therefore We actively monitor and update our hedging strategy with tariffs in escalating global demand for our products and to manage our exposure.
Our porcine royalty model trade disputes.
and extensive use of third-party multipliers mitigates increasing price volatility and the impact of cyclical price and or cost changes in uncertainty for our customers Increase in our operating pig production.
in several markets around costs, due to commodity the world.
FUNDING PENSIONS N A Exposure to costs associated We are the principal employer for the Milk Pension Fund No change.
The triennial with failure of third-party MPF and chair the group of participating employers.
2018 fund valuation is currently members of joint and several The fund is closed to future service and has an agreed in progress.
deficit recovery plan, based on the 2015 actuarial valuation.
In agreement with the employers, the trustees Exposure to costs as a result implemented an investment fide-risking strategy and have of external factors such as started a liability management exercise.
We also monitor mortality rates, interest rates the strength of other employers in the fund and have or investment values affecting retained external consultants to provide expert advice.
the size of the pension deficit.
