34 GSK Annual Report 2018 Risk management Our risk management framework is well embedded and continually Each Corporate Executive Team member performs a review of their reviewed, with oversight at Board level through our Audit and Risk key Principal Risks to ensure controls are in place and wherever Committee, assisted by our Risk Oversight and Compliance Council.
gaps are identified, clear plans are assigned to address them.
The framework enables the Board to identify, evaluate and manage During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee considered GSKs our Principal Risks and is designed to support our long-term priorities.
risks and the strategies to address them.
These reviews were It provides our businesses with a framework for risk management and undertaken through: annual business unit risk and assurance upward escalation of significant risks.
In conjunction with our values update reports: strategy papers for each of our most significant and expectations and Speak Up processes, it ensures that the risks risks: and an annual risk review.
associated with our business activities are actively and effectively We have emphasised the importance of data privacy from an internal agreed and mitigated and provides reasonable assurance against risk management perspective by separating Privacy as a new, material misstatement or loss.
Each of our businesses is governed stand-alone Enterprise Risk from the Information Security Enterprise by a Risk Management and Compliance Board, which promotes Risk.
Consequently, we now report on 11 Principal Risks, rather the tone from the top, establishes the culture regarding risk and than 10.
The risks are listed below with our assessment of the oversees internal controls.
Our annual confirmation exercise ensures external macro environment and the risk exposure post mitigation.
a consistent risk management approach across GSK which They are not in order of significance.
Risk Assessment and mitigation activities Patient safety The macro risk level has increased on a global scale due to an expanding, strict and diverse regulatory environment, which is going to evolve further, as exemplified in China.
In general Macro GSK exposure the macro environment in the established US and European markets remains unchanged with environment post mitigation patient safety and Good Pharmacovigilance Practices GVP remaining consistent.
Plans are in place to ensure that GSKs approach to patient safety is not compromised by Brexit.
The GSK risk exposure remains unchanged.
We are providing strong oversight to mitigate risk during implementation of organisational improvements to the local and central pharmacovigilance model.
Product quality The macro risk level remained unchanged, with continuing industry-level regulatory scrutiny of data integrity, drug shortages caused by manufacturing issues, and the need for timely Macro GSK exposure communication of issues with authorities.
environment post mitigation The overall GSK exposure level remains unchanged: however, improvements in annual performance metrics reflect GSKs ongoing investment and improvement initiatives in facilities, operating systems and training.
Financial controls & reporting The macro level remains unchanged, as there has been no material increase in financial reporting requirements.
Macro GSK exposure The GSK exposure level has reduced as a result of the successful completion of the US environment post mitigation and intercompany system migrations onto the new ERP platform.
Anti-bribery & corruption ABAC The macro risk level remains unchanged with continued strict ABAC laws and scrutiny from government and regulators, and the high standards expected of corporations.
Macro GSK exposure The GSK exposure level remains unchanged as we improved targeted training to environment post mitigation those most exposed to bribery and corruption risks in their roles: revised and simplified applicable written standards: and continued to develop risk indicators intended to provide meaningful and useful data about the potential for corruption e. g. financial crimes.
We have reduced our exposure to ABAC risk through a business model change in some very high-risk markets and will continue to embed these changes into 2019.
The SEC and DOJ investigations regarding third party advisers engaged by GSK in China are ongoing.
Commercial practices The macro risk level has increased due to greater competitive pressure, increased regulatory enforcement and an expansion of digital engagement, where laws and Macro GSK exposure regulations are still evolving.
environment post mitigation The GSK exposure level remains unchanged as we continue to enhance and maintain control over evolving commercial practices, notably the shift in marketing and sales practices utilising data analytics and e-commerce channels.
In October 2018, GSK announced changes to the way we will engage expert practitioners to improve sharing of new data on our innovative medicines and vaccines for a limited time among healthcare practitioners.
New controls and training have been implemented to support these changes while ensuring appropriate oversight and assurance across the markets.
35 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information ARC Report, see page 79 Principal risks and uncertainties, see page 241 Viability statement, see page 44 Internal Control Framework, see page 87 Risk Assessment and mitigation activities Privacy The macro risk level has increased due to new, more stringent data privacy legislation in multiple countries and the rise of enforcement by regulators.
Macro GSK exposure The GSK exposure level remains unchanged following implementation of a new global environment post mitigation privacy framework and operating model in the European Economic Area during 2018.
This has resulted in the development of critical privacy expertise in compliance, legal, and business roles, along with the embedding of privacy controls within IT and third party oversight.
Research practices The macro risk level is increasing, primarily driven by the high rate of change to regulations and external ethical standards and by increasing data use and technological complexity.
Macro GSK exposure The GSK exposure level remains unchanged as we continue to establish appropriate environment post mitigation controls and a culture of continuous improvement, overseen by an enterprise risk governance structure.
Third party oversight TPO The macro environment remains unchanged as the industry continues to be vigilant about third-party risks in global sourcing and supply, and consumer and investor Macro GSK exposure expectations mature.
environment post mitigation The GSK exposure level remains unchanged.
The TPO programme has been fully deployed.
Due diligence for low-risk engagements is based on embedded process controls, relieving Business Owners of TPO activity without a significant change in risk appetite.
High-risk engagements continue to require an engagement risk assessment and prescribed next steps.
The risk-based approach proposed means that some low-risk issues may occur that will require a reactive response.
Environment, health & safety The macro risk level has increased due to greater emphasis on environment controls from regulators, activists and stakeholders.
Particular focus areas include antimicrobial and sustainability EHS&S resistance related to manufacturing releases, the wider issue of pharmaceuticals in the Macro GSK exposure environment PiE and increasing emerging market regulation.
External scrutiny of our environment post mitigation external supply chain for active ingredients both for existing and pipeline assets has also increased significantly.
The GSK exposure level remains unchanged.
Risks associated with restructuring of the site network are being proactively managed.
Mitigation and improvement plans have been established and are progressing through implementation.
Information security The macro risk level continues to increase as the threat against the pharmaceutical business and industry generally become more sophisticated and targeted, as evidenced Macro GSK exposure by the Wannacry and NotPetya global incidents.
environment post mitigation Despite this, the GSK exposure level remains unchanged due to further development of our programme to safeguard against cyber-attacks and protect critical information and systems, and our ability to balance the demands of regulation with our digital transformation, which involves increased data collection and analysis.
Supply continuity The macro risk level remains unchanged with ongoing stringent regulation, a continued US focus on contract manufacturers outside the UK EU, and Brexit uncertainties.
Macro GSK exposure The overall GSK risk exposure level is unchanged.
We have improved risk management environment post mitigation of our supplier portfolio: reduced the complexity of our internal and external networks: and improved our crisis and continuity management framework.
However, we have seen an increase in complexity with the introduction of a major serialisation change programme for the EU Falsified Medicines Directive coinciding with Brexit preparations.
36 GSK Annual Report 2018 Risk management continued Risks associated with the proposed separation of GSKs Consumer Healthcare business A separation of our Consumer Healthcare business may be dependent on a number of factors that are outside GSKs control, including any required shareholder and regulatory approvals, favourable conditions in public equity markets and public or private debt markets and changes in applicable law and regulation.
Therefore, there can be no certainty that a separation will be completed as proposed or at all.
In addition, if a separation is completed, there can be no assurance that either GSK or Consumer Healthcare will realise the expected benefits of separation or that the separation will not adversely affect GSK or Consumer Healthcare or the value or liquidity of their respective shares.
Our approach to Brexit In preparing for the UKs exit from the EU Brexit, our overriding Our Brexit plans prepare us for elements that are within our control.
priority has been to maintain continuity of supply of our medicines, We have significant experience of maintaining resilient supply chains, vaccines and consumer healthcare products to people in the UK and we have used existing processes to develop a new supply and EU.
model based on the UK leaving the EU in March 2019.
To minimise disruption to patients, we have also adjusted stock levels in both As a result, we have taken a risk-based approach to planning the UK and EU.
Uncertainty remains about the new operating and mitigation, allocating costs of up to 70 million to implement environment, and as a result we support efforts to secure a status relevant changes over the next one to two years, while the future quo operating period post-Brexit, and UK and EU preparations to relationship between the UK and EU is negotiated.
We have made minimise potential disruption to the supply of medicines to patients.
good progress in implementing our Brexit contingency plan in 2018.
Our activity has included: arranging the retesting and certifying of We anticipate subsequent and ongoing costs arising from Brexit our medicines in Europe: submitting marketing authorisation holder could include further customs duties and will include the cost transfers: updating packaging: securing additional warehousing: of duplicate testing and release of our products.
We continue to and supporting employees in obtaining settled status or equivalent estimate these potential costs at approximately 50 million per year.
UK technical guidance, which outlines As more details emerge on how our business will need to change acceptance of testing from EU sites for a time-limited period, has after Brexit, the assumptions underlying these forecasts could allowed us to reduce some potential duplication in our supply chain change, with consequent adjustments up or down.
continue to revise our plans and their expected financial impact as negotiations and regulations develop.
Over the longer term, we continue to believe that Brexit will not have a material impact on our business.
