241 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties As rules and regulations change, and governmental interpretation relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations evolves, the nature of a particular risk may change.
Changes to that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives.
certain regulatory regimes may be substantial.
Any change in, and The risks below are those that we believe could cause our actual any failure to comply with, applicable law and regulations could results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
During materially and adversely affect our financial results.
2018 we have evolved the cycle of management of these risks which Similarly, our global business exposes us to litigation and government helps us Identify, manage and report on our most important risks in investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation, a proportionate and consistent way.
patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
We must adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and Litigation and government investigations, including related provisions regulations which apply to research and development, manufacturing, we may make for unfavourable outcomes and increases in related testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of Pharmaceutical, costs such as insurance premiums, could materially and adversely Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products.
These affect not only affect our financial results.
the cost of product development but also the time required to reach More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in our the market and the likelihood of doing so successfully on a significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in continuous basis.
Note 45, Legal proceedings, on pages 215 to 218.
Also, during 2018 we have improved consistency of risk management UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities a across the organisation through evolution of our enterprise risk company takes to address principal risks and uncertainties.
A summary management and reporting cycle.
of the activities that the Group takes to manage each of our principal risks accompanies the description of each principal risk below.
The principal risks and uncertainties are not listed in order of significance.
Patient safety Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report human The Chief Medical Officer CMO, who is also the Medical Officer safety information HSI, including adverse events from all potential for Pharmaceuticals, is responsible for medical governance under sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a timely manner.
Under that policy, safeguarding human subjects in our clinical trials and patients who take our products is of paramount Risk impact importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating and addressing matters of human safety.
The risk impact has the potential to compromise our ability to conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to Individual Medical Officers within the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and ensure that appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the risk Consumer Healthcare businesses and our substantial Safety and benefit profile of our products, including the completeness and Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse issues accuracy of product labels and the pursuit of additional studies reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
This could lead to potential harm to a Group product is approved for marketing, we have an extensive patients, reputational damage, product liability claims or other post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system.
Information litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as on possible side effects of products is received from several sources fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation.
including unsolicited reports from healthcare professionals HCPs and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and scientific literature, Context traditional media and social media.
It is our policy that employees are Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare quality of our products.
Each of our country managers is responsible products to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for use for monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the by humans.
Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the collection of safety information and reporting the information to the safety of our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical relevant central safety department, in accordance with policy and trials, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when legal requirements.
products are widely introduced into the marketplace.
Questions Information that changes the risk benefit profile of one of our about the safety of our products may be raised not only by our products will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate ongoing safety surveillance and post-marketing studies but also by and minimise the risk.
Proposed actions are discussed with governmental agencies and third parties that may analyse publicly regulatory authorities and can include modifying the prescribing available clinical trial results.
Constant vigilance and flexibility is information, communications to physicians and other healthcare required in order to respond to a varied regulatory environment providers, restrictions on product prescribing availability to help which continues to evolve and diverge globally.
assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for withdraw the medicine from the market.
damages related to our products.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently unpredictable.
Class actions that seek to sweep together all persons who take our products increase the potential liability.
Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
242 GSK Annual Report 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Patient safety continued Our Global Safety Board GSB, comprising senior physicians and In addition to the medical governance framework as described representatives of supporting functions, is an integral component above, we use several mechanisms to foster the early evaluation, of the system.
The GSB including subsidiary boards dedicated to mitigation and resolution of disputes as they arise, and of potential Consumer Healthcare products and Vaccines reviews the safety claims even before they occur.
The goal of the programmes is to of investigational and our marketed products and has the authority create a culture of early identification and evaluation of risks and to stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such trial is not ethically claims actual or potential that remains strong through organisational or scientifically justified in light of information that has emerged since and regulatory change, in order to minimise liability and litigation.
Product quality There is no single external quality standard or system that governs Risk definition the detailed global regulatory expectations for the quality of medicinal Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices products.
Requirements are often complex and fragmented across cGMP or inadequate controls and governance of quality in the national and regional boundaries.
We have therefore adopted the supply chain covering supplier standards, manufacturing and internationally recognised principles from the ICH Q10: distribution of products.
Pharmaceutical Quality Systems framework as the basis for the GSK Quality Management System.
Risk impact This is an industry standard which incorporates quality concepts A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching throughout the product lifecycle.
The GSK Quality Management implications in terms of patient and consumer safety resulting in System is augmented by a consolidation of the numerous regulatory product launch delays, supply interruptions and product recalls.
requirements defined by markets across the world, which assures This would have the potential to do damage to our reputation, as that it meets external expectations for product quality in the markets well as result in other regulatory, legal and financial consequences.
The Quality Management System is routinely updated to ensure that it keeps pace with the evolving external regulatory Context environment and with new scientific understanding of our products Patients, consumers and HCPs trust the quality of our products.
As part of our drive to continually improve the Product quality may be influenced by many factors including operational deployment of our Quality Management System, we product and process understanding, consistency of manufacturing are making our policies and procedures simpler to understand components, compliance with GMP, accuracy of labelling, reliability and implement, as well as adopting innovative tools to give a of the external supply chain, and the embodiment of an overarching more user-friendly experience.
The internal and external environment continues to We provide the Corporate Executive Team & Risk Oversight and evolve as new products and new legislation are introduced.
Compliance Council with an integrated assessment of Regulated Critically, we are addressing the impact of Brexit on our supply Quality GxP performance.
The defined key performance indicators chain management and quality oversight between the UK and the cover manufacturing practice, clinical practice, pharmacovigilance EU and are developing and deploying appropriate contingency practice, regulatory practice, drug safety assessment, and animal plans to avoid interruption of supply to patients.
Mitigating activities We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and An extensive global network of quality and compliance professionals managing third party suppliers that provide materials which are used is aligned with each business unit to provide oversight and assist in finished products.
Contract manufacturers making our products with the delivery of quality performance and operational compliance, are expected to comply with GSK standards and are regularly from site level to senior management level.
Management oversight audited to provide assurance that standards are met.
of those activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of Quality All staff members are regularly trained to ensure that cGMP standards Councils and through an independent Chief Product Quality Officer and behaviours based on our values and expectations are followed.
and Global Product Quality Office.
Additionally, advocacy and communication programmes are routinely We have developed and implemented a single Quality Management deployed to ensure consistent messages are conveyed across the System that defines the quality standards and systems for our organisation, whether they originate from changes in regulation, businesses associated with Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and learnings from inspections, or regulatory submissions.
There is a Consumer Healthcare products and clinical trial materials.
This continued emphasis on the value of quality performance metrics system has a broad scope and is applicable throughout the to facilitate improvement and foster a culture of right first time.
product lifecycle from R&D to mature commercial supply.
243 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Financial controls and reporting We expect there to be continued focus on tax reform in 2019 and Risk definition future years driven by initiatives of the Organisation for Economic Failure to comply with current tax laws or incurring significant losses Cooperation & Development to address the taxation of the digital due to treasury activities: failure to report accurate financial information economy and European Commission initiatives including the use in compliance with accounting standards and applicable legislation.
of fiscal state aid investigations.
Together with domestic initiatives around the world, these may result in significant changes to Risk impact established tax principles and an increase in tax authority disputes.
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and These, regardless of their merit or outcomes, can be costly, divert disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income management attention and may adversely impact our reputation and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action and and relationship with key stakeholders.
could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Changes in Mitigating activities tax laws or in their application with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax credits, Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional management taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in tax relief allowed and then reviewed with the Financial Controller and the Chief on the interest on debt funding, could impact our effective tax rate.
This allows our Financial Controller and Significant losses may arise from inconsistent application of treasury our CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and to policies, transactional or settlement errors, or counterparty defaults.
Significant judgments are reviewed and confirmed by senior management.
Business re-organisations Any changes in the substance or application of the governing tax and newly acquired activities are integrated into risk assessments laws, failure to comply with such tax laws or significant losses due and appropriate controls and reviews are applied.
to treasury activities could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Counterparty exposure is subject to defined limits approved by the Board for both credit rating and individual counterparties.
Oversight Context of Treasurys role in managing counterparty risk in line with agreed The Group is required by the laws of various jurisdictions to disclose policy is performed by a Corporate Compliance Officer, who publicly its financial results and events that could materially affect operates independently of Treasury.
Further details on mitigation the financial results of the Group.
Regulators routinely review the of Treasury risks can be found on pages 198 to 200, Note 42, financial statements of listed companies for compliance with new, Financial instruments and related disclosures.
revised or existing accounting and regulatory requirements.
The We maintain a control environment designed to identify material Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory errors in financial reporting and disclosure.
The design and operating requirements concerning our financial statements and disclosure effectiveness of key financial reporting controls are regularly tested of material information including any transactions relating to business by management and via Independent Business Monitoring.
This restructuring such as acquisitions and divestitures.
However, should provides us with the assurance that controls over key financial we be subject to an investigation into potential non-compliance reporting and disclosure processes have operated effectively.
with accounting and disclosure requirements, this may lead to A minimum standard control set has been implemented, whereby restatements of previously reported results and significant penalties.
all Finance activities, are required to apply and ensure they are Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly foreign monitored.
Our Global Finance Risk Management and Controls exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis.
Centre of Excellence provides extra support to large Group These transactions involve market volatility and counterparty risk.
organisations undergoing transformation such as system deployment or significant business and finance transformations.
We have also The Groups effective tax rate reflects rates of tax in the jurisdictions added operational resources to ensure processes and controls in which the Group operates that are both higher and lower than the are maintained during business transformation, the upgrade of UK rate and takes into account regimes that encourage innovation our financial systems and processes.
Additional risk mitigation and investment in science by providing tax incentives which, if has been introduced by amending the programme timelines of changed, could affect the Groups tax rate.
In addition, the worldwide system upgrades to optimise delivery.
nature of our operations means that our intellectual property, R&D and manufacturing operations are centered in a number of key The Disclosure Committee reporting to the Board, reviews the locations.
A consequence of this is that our cross-border supply Groups quarterly results and Annual Report and determines routes, necessary to ensure supplies of medicines into numerous throughout the year, in consultation with its legal advisors, whether end markets, can be complex and result in conflicting claims from it is necessary to disclose publicly information about the Group tax authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual countries.
The Treasury Management Tax legislation itself is also complex and differs across the countries Group meets on a regular basis to seek to ensure that liquidity, in which we operate.
As such, tax risk can also arise due to interest rate, counterparty, foreign currency transaction and foreign differences in the interpretation of such legislation.
The tax charge currency translation risks are all managed in line with the conservative included in our financial statements is our best estimate of tax liability approach as detailed in the associated risk strategies and policies pending audits by tax authorities.
which have been adopted by the Board.
244 GSK Annual Report 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial controls and reporting continued Tax risk is managed through robust internal policies, processes, Our tax affairs are managed on a global basis through a co-ordinated training and compliance programmes to ensure we have alignment team of tax professionals led by the Global Head of Tax who works across our business and meet our tax obligations.
We seek to closely with the business.
Our tax professionals are suitably qualified maintain open, positive relationships with governments and tax for the roles they perform, and we support their training needs in authorities worldwide and we welcome constructive debate on order that they continue to be able to provide up to date technical taxation policy.
We monitor government debate on tax policy in our advice.
We submit tax returns according to statutory time limits key jurisdictions to deal proactively with any potential future changes and engage with tax authorities to seek to ensure our tax affairs in tax law.
We engage advisors and legal counsel to confirm the are current, entering arrangements such as Continuous Audit implications for our business of tax legislation such as the recently Programmes and Advance Pricing Agreements where appropriate.
enacted US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Where appropriate, we are These agreements provide long-term certainty for both tax authorities active in providing relevant business input to tax policy makers.
and for us over the tax treatment of our business.
In exceptional Significant decisions are submitted for consideration to the Tax cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement with tax Governance Board which meets quarterly and comprises senior authorities, we may have to resolve disputes through formal appeals personnel from across GSKs Finance division.
We keep up-to-date with the latest developments in financial reporting requirements by working with our external auditors and legal advisors.
Anti-bribery and corruption ABAC Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure of GSK employees, consultants and third parties to comply Programme governance is provided through Enterprise Risk with our Anti-bribery & corruption ABAC principles and standards, Management overseen by the ABAC Governance Board which as well as with all applicable legislation.
includes representation from key functional areas and the business.
We have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for the implementation Risk impact and evolution of the programme in response to developments in the internal and external environment.
This is complemented with Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and associated independent oversight and assurance undertaken by the Audit persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action, and civil & Assurance and Independent Business Monitoring teams.
and criminal liability and may compromise the Groups ability to supply its products under certain government contracts.
In addition We have an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to ensure to legal and financial penalties, a failure to prevent bribery through compliance with our ABAC policies and mitigate the risk of bribery complying with ABAC legislation and regulations could have and corruption.
It builds on our business standards, values and substantial implications for the reputation of the company, the expectations to form a comprehensive and practical approach to credibility of senior leaders, and an erosion of investor confidence compliance and is flexible to the evolving nature of our business.
in our governance and risk management.
Our Code of Conduct, values and expectations, and commitment to Context zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk.
In light of the complexity and geographic breadth of this risk, we constantly evolve We are exposed to bribery and corruption risk through our global our oversight of activities and data, reinforce to our workforce clear business operations.
In some markets, the government structure expectations regarding acceptable behaviours, and maintain regular and the rule of law are less developed, and this has a bearing on our communications between the centre and local markets.
bribery and corruption risk exposure.
In addition to the global nature Our ABAC programme is built on best in class principles and is of our business, the healthcare sector by its very nature maintains subject to ongoing review and development.
It provides us with relationships with government bodies, is highly competitive and the basis from which we seek to manage the risk from top down subject to regulation.
This increases the instances where we are and bottom up.
For example, the programme comprises top-level exposed to bribery and corruption risk.
commitment from the Board of Directors and leadership, a global risk The Group has been subject to a number of ABAC inquiries.
We assessment and key risk indicators to enable targeted intervention reached a resolution with the US authorities in 2016 regarding their and risk management activities.
The programme is underpinned by a ABAC inquiry, following which we were subject to a self-monitoring global ABAC policy and written standards that address commercial arrangement.
The self-monitorship concluded in September 2018. and other practices that give rise to ABAC risk and ongoing Government investigations regarding our China and other business communications.
We provide mandatory periodic ABAC training operations are ongoing.
These investigations are discussed further to our staff and relevant third parties in accordance with their roles, in Note 45, Legal proceedings.
responsibilities and the risks they face.
In addition, the programme mandates enhanced controls over interactions with government officials and during business development transactions.
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other large multinational companies and use external expertise and internal insights to drive improvements in the programme.
245 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Commercial practices Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to engage in commercial activities that are consistent with Our strategic objectives are designed to ensure we achieve our the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or the Groups requirements mission of helping people do more, feel better and live longer.
We relating to marketing and communications about our medicines continue to strive for new product launches that are competitive and and associated therapeutic areas: appropriate interactions with resourced effectively.
We also strive to have a healthy proportion of healthcare professionals HCPs and patients: and legitimate and the Groups sales ratio attributable to new product or innovation transparent transfer of value.
This innovation helps us defray the effect, for example, of downward Risk impact price pressure in major markets, declining emerging market growth Failure to manage risks related to commercial practices could and negative foreign exchange impact.
Establishing new products materially and adversely affect our ability to grow a diversified that are priced to balance expectations of patients and consumers, global business and deliver more products of value for patients HCPs, payers, shareholders, and the community enables us to and consumers.
Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and maintain a strong global business and remain relevant to the needs regulations may result in governmental investigation, regulatory action of patients and consumers.
Our values and behaviours provide a and legal proceedings brought against the Group by governmental guide for how we lead and make decisions.
We constantly strive and private plaintiffs which could result in government sanctions, to do the right thing and deliver quality products and ensure supply and criminal and or financial penalties.
Failure to provide accurate is sustained to meet customer needs and demand requirements, and complete information related to our products may result in seeking to ensure our actions reflect our values, behaviours and incomplete awareness of the risk benefit profile of our products the mission of our company.
and possibly suboptimal treatment of patients and consumers.
We have taken action to enhance and improve standards and Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values could procedures for customer and consumer engagement utilising the also result in reputational harm and dilute trust established with application of data analytics and e-commerce channels.
policies and standards governing commercial activities undertaken by us or on our behalf.
Training has been implemented to support Context the evolution of our activities to all relevant employees.
All of these We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly activities we conduct worldwide must conform to high ethical, competitive and highly regulated.
Our competitors may make regulatory, and industry standards.
Where local standards differ significant product innovations and technical advances and may from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
In light of this competitive environment, have harmonised policies and procedures to guide above-country continued development of commercially viable new products and commercial practice processes as well as clarified applicable the development of additional uses for existing products that reflect standards for operations in the various markets in which we operate.
insights which help ensure those products address the needs of Each business has adopted the Internal Control Framework to patients consumers, HCPs, and payers are critical to achieve our support the assessment and management of its risks.
practices activities have appropriate monitoring programmes and oversight from both business unit Risk Management and Compliance As other pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer companies, we Boards and Country Executive Boards that manage risks across face downward price pressure in major markets, declining emerging in-country business activities.
Where in the past we have fallen market growth, and negative foreign exchange impact.
below our own or any other regulatory or industry standards, we Developing new Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare have sought to improve both the framework and culture for our products is a costly, lengthy and an uncertain process.
candidate may fail at any stage, including after significant economic All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and and human resources have been invested.
Our competitors approved according to our policies and standards, and conducted products or pricing strategies, or any failure on our part to develop in accordance with local laws and regulations, to seek to ensure that commercially successful products, or to develop additional uses these materials and activities fairly represent the products or services for existing products, could materially and adversely affect our ability of the Group.
When necessary, we have disciplined up to and to achieve our strategic objectives.
including termination employees who have engaged in misconduct We are committed to the ethical and responsible commercialisation and have broadened our ability to claw back remuneration from of our products to support our mission to improve the quality of senior management in the event of misconduct.
human life by enabling people to do more, feel better, and live longer.
We have eliminated rewards based on individual sales or market To accomplish this mission, we engage the healthcare community in share of prescription products for sales professionals and their various ways to provide important information about our medicines.
managers who interact with HCPs in favour of rewards based on Promotion of approved products seeks to ensure that HCPs globally the quality of the individuals interactions with HCPs.
have access to information they need, that patients and consumers have access to the information and products they need and that In October 2018, we announced changes that allow fair market products are prescribed, recommended or used in a manner that value payments to be made by GSK to expert practitioners to speak provides the maximum healthcare benefit to patients and consumers.
about our innovative medicines and vaccines in a limited number We are committed to communicating information related to our of countries during a restricted time period in a products lifecycle.
approved products in a responsible, legal and ethical manner.
New controls and training have been implemented to support these changes while ensuring appropriate oversight and assurance across the markets.
Under the new policy, we will expand our reporting of payments to individual HCPs as part of our commitment to transparency and responsible disclosure.
246 GSK Annual Report 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Privacy Risk definition Mitigating activities The failure to collect, secure, use and destroy personal information The Chief Compliance Officer is also the chairperson of the Privacy PI in accordance with applicable data privacy laws.
Governance Board PGB, which oversees GSKs overall data privacy programme.
Each business and function has appointed a Risk impact Risk Owner who is accountable for the oversight of privacy risks associated with that business or functional area.
They are supported Non-compliance can lead to harm to individuals e. g. financial by Privacy Leaders within their business or function.
Additionally, in loss, distress, prejudice and GSK e. g. fines, management time, some countries data privacy laws require a Data Protection Officer operational inefficiency, out of pocket costs, and reputational DPO to be appointed.
GSK has appointed a single DPO for the damage.
It can also damage trust between GSK and individuals, European Union, who is represented and supported in specific communities, business partners and government authorities.
countries by Country Privacy Advisors.
The Chief Compliance The General Data Protection Regulation GDPR increased the Officer is the Enterprise Risk Owner ERO.
The ERO has appointed enforcement powers of EU supervisory authorities, including by a delegate risk owner, the Global Privacy Officer GPO who has allowing them to impose fines of up to 4% of global revenue, and to accountability on a day-to-day basis for designing and implementing require the suspension of processing PI in certain circumstances.
The GPO co-leads the cross-functional GDPR also gives individuals the right to bring collective legal actions Privacy Centre of Excellence CoE, together with the Global against GSK for failure to comply with data privacy laws.
They are supported by Privacy Officers and Privacy Counsel for each Region and multiple Country Privacy Advisors Context who are familiar with local privacy regulations.
Data Privacy laws are diverse, with limited harmonisation, despite GSK has emphasised the importance of data privacy from an internal Europes adoption of GDPR.
In many countries in which GSK risk management perspective by separating Privacy as a new, operates, local data privacy laws govern how GSK can collect standalone Enterprise Risk from the Information Security Enterprise and use PI.
It is challenging for multi-nationals to standardise their Risk.
It has created a Privacy Centre of Excellence in Global Ethics approach to compliance with data privacy laws due to the high-level and Compliance, which has overseen: i the implementation of a of local variation.
Governments are enforcing compliance with data control framework: ii remediation of certain existing business privacy laws more rigorously.
There is an increasing focus on the activities to ensure compliance with GDPR including adopting ethical use of PI, over and above compliance with data privacy laws, privacy controls e. g. privacy contract terms, written records of and individuals are increasingly aware of their rights under data processing activities, data protection impact assessments and iii privacy laws.
a comprehensive training programme to drive greater awareness and accountability for managing PI across the entire organisation.
Key roles of the privacy network at GSK will be certified with an accredited international privacy association.
Through monitoring, we continuously improve our processes, such as issue identification, reporting and handling capabilities.
We are developing a process to detect and assess new privacy regulations to proactively prepare and mitigate regulatory risk to GSK.
Research practices Risk definition Context Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound preclinical and Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns.
In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities attempt to address this proactively, animal studies remain a vital part that are consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or of our research.
In many cases, they are the only method that can be the Groups requirements, and failure to secure adequate patent used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living protection for GSKs products.
body before it is studied in humans.
Animal research can provide critical information about the causes of diseases and how they Risk impact develop.
Nonetheless, we are continually seeking ways in which we can minimise our use of animals in research, whilst complying The impacts of the risk include harm to human subjects, reputational with regulatory requirements.
damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our products, governmental investigation, legal proceedings brought Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess against the Group by governmental and private plaintiffs product and demonstrate an investigational products efficacy and safety or liability suits and claims for damages, loss of revenue due to further evaluate the product once it has been approved for marketing.
inadequate patent protection or inability to supply GSK products, We also work with human biological samples.
These samples are and regulatory action such as fines, penalties, or loss of product fundamental to the discovery, development and safety monitoring authorisation.
Any of these consequences could materially and of our products.
adversely affect our financial results and cause loss of trust from our customers and patients.
247 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Research practices continued The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages of The Chief Medical Officer oversees the following enterprise Medical the research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording and Governance Boards: management, analysis, reporting, storage and retrieval.
Our The Human Subject Research Board is in place to provide research data is governed by legislation and regulatory requirements.
oversight for the human subject research sponsored and Research data and supporting documents are core components at supported by us to ensure it conforms to ethical, medical and various stages of pipeline progression decision-making and form the scientific standards content of regulatory submissions, publications and patent filings.
The Data Disclosure Board provides oversight for disclosure of Poor data integrity can compromise our research efforts and our sponsored and supported human subject research.
We make negatively impact company reputation.
information available on our clinical studies, including summaries There are innate complexities and interdependencies required of the results whether positive or negative.
We were the first for regulatory filings, particularly given our global research and company to publish clinical study reports that form the basis of development footprint.
Continually changing and increasingly submissions to regulatory agencies and we have publicly posted stringent submission requirements continue to increase the more than 2,400 clinical study reports in addition to more than complexity of worldwide product registration.
6,400 study result summaries Scientific engagement SE, defined as the interaction and exchange Specific accountability and authorisation for SE is overseen by of information between GSK and external communities to advance the Scientific Engagement and Promotional Practices Board.
scientific and medical understanding, including the appropriate This Board is responsible for oversight of applicable policies and development and use of our products, is an essential part of seeking to ensure the highest level of integrity and continuous scientific discourse.
Such non-promotional engagement with development of SE external stakeholder groups is vital to GSKs mission and necessary We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management HBSM for scientific and medical advance.
SE activities are essential but governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful present legal, regulatory, and reputational risk if the sharing of data, acquisition and management of human biological samples.
Our invited media coverage or payments to HCPs have, or are perceived HBSM Enterprise Risk Management Team champions HBSM to have, promotional intent.
activities and provides an experienced group to support internal A wide variety of biological materials are used by GSK in discovery, sample custodians regarding best practice.
Through the Convention on It remains an important priority to enhance our data integrity controls.
Biological Diversity CBD and the Nagoya Protocol, the international Data Integrity Committees are in place to provide oversight and Data community has established a global framework regulating access Integrity Quality Assurance teams conduct assessments to provide to, and use of, genetic resources of non-human origin in Research independent business monitoring of our internal controls for R&D and Development R&D.
We support the principles of access and activities.
benefit sharing to genetic resources as outlined in the CBD and the Nagoya Protocol, recognising the importance of appropriate, The Regulatory Governance Board serves as the global regulatory effective and proportionate implementation measures at national risk management and compliance board, promoting compliance with and regional levels.
regulatory requirements and procedures, and oversees Group-wide written standards for cross business regulatory processes.
Patent rights play an important role in providing GSK with a competitive advantage in the market.
Any loss of patent protection in We established an Access and Benefit Sharing Centre of Excellence a market for GSKs products developed through our R&D, including to oversee applicable requirements and enforcement measures for reducing the availability or scope of patent rights, could materially the acquisition and use of genetic material of non-human origin in and adversely affect our financial results in that market.
Absence scope of the Nagoya Protocol.
of adequate patent or data exclusivity protection, which could R&D maintains and controls pre-publication procedures to guard lead to, for example, competition from manufacturers of generic against public disclosure in advance of filing patent applications.
pharmaceutical products, could limit the opportunity to rely on In addition, because loss of patent protection can occur due to lack such markets for future sales growth for our products, which of data integrity in preparing patent application data and information, could also materially and adversely impact our financial results.
legal experts collaborate with R&D to support the review process Following expiration of certain intellectual property rights, a generic for new patent applications.
manufacturer may lawfully produce a generic version of a product.
Introduction of generic products typically leads to a rapid and The Research Practices risk is overseen by an Enterprise framework dramatic loss of sales and reduces our revenues and margins for that seeks to ensure strengthened governance across the R&D our proprietary products.
businesses in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
Under the leadership of the Research Practices Enterprise Risk Mitigating activities Owner, management of the risk takes a pragmatic approach to We have an established Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and information sharing, streamlining risk identification and escalation, Strategy OAWES, led by the Chief of Animal Welfare, Ethics and while ensuring ownership stays with the business.
Strategy, that ensures the humane and responsible care of animals and increases the knowledge and application of non-animal alternatives.
The OAWES provides a framework of animal welfare governance, promotes application of 3Rs replacement, refinement and reduction of animals in research, conducts quality assessments and develops and deploys strategies on animal model reproducibility and translatability.
248 GSK Annual Report 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Third party oversight TPO Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight over To guide and enforce our global principles for interactions with third party relationships and failure of third parties to meet their third parties we have a global policy framework applicable to buying contractual, regulatory, confidentiality or other obligations.
goods and services, managing our external spend, paying and working with our third parties.
This policy framework applies to all Risk impact employees and complementary workers worldwide.
The enterprisewide TPO programme takes an enterprise-wide view of third party Failure to adequately manage third party relationships could result in related risks to ensure compliance with our ABAC policies and business disruption and exposure to risks ranging from sub-optimal additional risks such as Labour Rights, Health and Safety and Human contractual terms and conditions, to severe business and legal Safety Information.
It forms a comprehensive and practical approach sanctions and or significant reputational damage.
Any of these to third party oversight that is flexible to the evolving nature of our consequences could materially and adversely affect our business business and the type of engagement being managed.
The operations and financial results.
programme is managed through the Global Ethics and Compliance Context organisation and has been globally deployed.
It has strengthened risk assessment, contractual terms and due diligence efforts on third Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an integral parties and improved the overall management of our third party risks part of the solution to meeting our business objectives.
We rely on through the lifecycle of the third party engagement.
third parties, including suppliers, advisors, distributors, individual contractors, licensees, and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology Programme governance is provided through Enterprise Risk collaboration partners for discovery, manufacture, and marketing of Management overseen by the TPO Governance Board which our products and for supporting other important business processes.
We have a dedicated TPO team responsible for the implementation These business relationships present a material risk.
For example, and evolution of the programme in response to developments in the we share critical and sensitive information such as marketing plans, internal and external environment.
clinical data, and employee data with specific third parties who are conducting the relevant outsourced business activities.
Inadequate Each business leadership team retains ultimate accountability for protection or misuse of this information by third parties could have managing third party interactions and risks.
When working with third significant business impact.
Similarly, we use distributors and agents parties, our employees are expected to manage external interactions in a range of activities such as promotion and tendering which and commitments responsibly.
This expectation is embedded in our have inherent risks such as inappropriate promotion or corruption.
values and Code of Conduct.
It is our responsibility that all activities Insufficient internal compliance and controls by the distributors carried out on our behalf are performed safely and in compliance with could affect our reputation.
These risks are further increased by the applicable laws and our values, expectations, standards and Code complexities of working with large numbers of third parties across of Conduct See ABAC report above.
Our programme is complemented with independent oversight and assurance undertaken by the Audit & Assurance and Independent Business Monitoring teams.
We review the TPO programme against other large multinational companies and use external expertise and internal insights to drive improvements in the programme.
Environment, health & safety and sustainability EHS&S Risk definition Context Failure to manage environment, health & safety and sustainability We are subject to health, safety and environmental laws of various EHS&S risks in line with our objectives and policies and with jurisdictions.
These laws impose duties to protect people, the relevant laws and regulations.
environment, and the communities in which we operate, as well as potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites.
We have Risk impact also been identified as a potentially responsible party under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Failure to manage EHS&S risks could lead to significant harm to Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to people, the environment and communities in which we operate, fines, our use or ownership of such sites in the US.
Failure to manage failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory requirements, these environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the Groups reputation, action and additional remedial costs that may materially and which could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
adversely affect our financial results.
See Note 45 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of the environmental related proceedings in which we are involved.
We routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for such matters.
249 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Environment, health & safety and sustainability EHS&S continued Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our Global Mitigating activities EHS&S standard which supports our EHS&S policy and our The Corporate Executive Team CET is responsible for EHS&S objective to discover, develop, manufacture, supply and sell our governance under a global policy.
Under that policy, the CET seeks products without harming people or the environment.
In addition to ensure there is a control framework in place to manage the risks, to the design and provision of safe facilities, plant and equipment, impacts and legal compliance issues that relate to EHS&S and for we operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards assigning responsibility to senior managers for providing and where practicable and protect employees health and well-being.
Individual managers seek to ensure that Through our continuing efforts to improve environmental sustainability the EHS&S control framework is effective and well implemented in we have reduced our value chain carbon intensity per pack, water their respective business area and that it is fully compliant with all consumption and waste generation.
We actively manage our applicable laws and regulations, adequately resourced, maintained, environmental remediation obligations and seek to ensure practices communicated, and monitored.
Additionally, each employee is are environmentally sustainable and compliant.
personally responsible for ensuring that all applicable local standard operating procedures are followed by them and expected to take responsibility for EHS&S matters.
Information security Risk definition Mitigating activities The risk to GSK business activities if information becomes disclosed We have a global information protection policy and accompanying to those not authorised to see it, or if information or systems fail to be information technology standards and processes that are supported available or are corrupted, typically because of cybersecurity threats, through a dedicated team and programme of activity.
Our Information although accident or malicious insider-action may be contributory Protection function provides strategy, direction, and oversight, causes.
including active monitoring of cyber security, while enhancing our global information security capabilities, through an ongoing Risk impact programme of investment that is in its sixth year.
Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems and We assess changes in our information protection risk environment information may result in loss of commercial or strategic advantage through briefings by government agencies, subscription to and could materially affect our ongoing business operations, such commercial threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing as scientific research, clinical trials and manufacturing and supply with other pharmaceutical businesses and cross-industry bodies.
Such changes are regularly reviewed by our Executive team and our Board and suitable adjustments agreed.
Context We aim to apply industry best practices as part of our information We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as corporate security policies, processes and technologies and invest in strategies strategic plans, intellectual property, manufacturing systems and that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security threat trade secrets.
There is the potential that our computer systems or landscape.
This will include suitable levels of cyber-risk insurance information may be exposed to misuse or unauthorised disclosure.
We believe that the cyber security incidents that we have experienced to date have not resulted in significant disruptions to our operations and have not had a significant adverse effect on our results of operations, or on third parties.
However, as the threats evolve we cannot provide assurance that our significant efforts in protecting and monitoring our systems and information will always be successful in preventing compromise or disruption in future.
They increasingly involve highly-resourced threat actors such as nation-states and organised criminals.
Combined with the size and complexity of our IT systems and those of our supply chain partners including outsourced operations, this means that our systems and information have been, and are expected to continue to be, the subject of cyber-attacks of various types.
250 GSK Annual Report 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Supply continuity Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product: Our supply chain model is designed to ensure the supply, quality inability to respond effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner to and security of our products globally, as far as possible.
Through recover and sustain critical operations, including key supply chains.
the Supply Chain Governance Committees we closely monitor the inventory status and delivery of our products, with the aim of ensuring Risk impact that customers have the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products they need.
Improved links between commercial We recognise that failure to supply our products can adversely forecasting and manufacturing made possible by our core impact consumers and patients who rely on them.
A material commercial cycle should, over time, reduce the risk associated with interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes demand fluctuations and any impact on our ability to supply or the could expose us to litigation or regulatory action and financial cost of write-offs where products exceed their expiry date.
Each penalties that could adversely affect the Groups financial results.
node of the supply chain is periodically reviewed to ensure adequate The Groups international operations, and those of its partners, safety stock, while balancing working capital in our end-to-end expose our workforce, facilities, operations and information supply chain.
Particular attention is placed on mitigating supply technology to potential disruption from natural events e. g. storm, risks associated with medically critical and high-revenue products.
earthquake, man-made events e. g. civil unrest, terrorism, and global emergencies e. g. Ebola outbreak, flu pandemic.
It is important that We routinely monitor the compliance of manufacturing external we have robust crisis management and recovery plans in place to suppliers to identify and manage risks in our supply base.
practical, we minimise our dependence on single sources of supply for critical items.
Where alternative sourcing arrangements are not Context possible, our inventory strategy aims to protect the supply chain from Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by unanticipated disruption.
various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our license to We continue to implement anti-counterfeit systems such as product operate.
Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or serialisation in accordance with emerging supply chain requirements by suppliers of key services and materials could lead to litigation or such as the EU Falsified Medicines Regulation around the world.
regulatory action such as product recalls and seizures, interruption A corporate policy requires each business and functional area of supply, delays in the approval of new products, and suspension head to ensure effective crisis management and business continuity of manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing plans are in place that include authorised response and recovery or logistics issues.
strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear communication We rely on materials and services provided by third party suppliers routes, before any business disruption occurs.
Corporate Security to make our products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients supports the business by: coordinating crisis management and API, antigens, intermediates, commodities, and components for business continuity training: facilitating simulation exercises: the manufacture and packaging of Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and assessing our preparedness and recovery capability: and providing Consumer Healthcare products.
Some of the third party services assurance oversight of our central repository of plans supporting procured, such as services provided by contract manufacturing our critical business processes.
and clinical research organisations to support development of key Each business performs risk oversight to assure adequate risk products, are important to ensure continuous operation of our mitigation including identifying new and emerging threats.
a coordinated approach to evaluate and manage the implications for Although we undertake risk mitigation we recognise that certain our business arising from Brexit.
Our approach to Brexit is set out events could nevertheless still result in delays or service interruptions.
We use effective crisis management and business continuity These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness and planning to provide for the health and safety of our people and to response capability is maintained.
We also develop and maintain minimise impact to us, by maintaining functional operations following partnerships with external bodies like the Business Continuity a natural or man-made disaster, or a public health emergency.
Institute and the UN International Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction, which helps improve our business continuity initiatives in disaster-prone areas and supports the development of community resilience to disasters.
