Principal risks and uncertainties Glencore is exposed to a variety of risks that can have an impact on our business and prospects, future performance, financial position, liquidity, asset values, growth potential, sustainable development and reputation.
Risk management is one of the core responsibilities of the Board and its Audit and HSEC Committees, and it is central to the decision making process.
Our principal risks and uncertainties whether under our control or not are highly dynamic andour assessment and our responses to them are criticalto our future business and prospects Our risk management framework The commentary on the risks impact has altered.
In particular identifies and manages risk in a way inthissection should be read in webelieve that geopolitical and that is supportive of our strategic conjunction with the explanatory compliance impacts have increased.
priorities of opportunistically text under Understanding the Also, pressure for divestment from deploying capital, while protecting information on risks which is set coal and coal producing companies our future financial security and outon page 26. continues to grow.
Our approach towards amorefocused set of risks, we The natural diversification riskmanagement is framed by have i combined Reductions in ofourportfolio of commodities, ourongoing understanding of the commodity prices and Fluctuations geographies, currencies, assets and risks that we are exposed to, our in supply ofor demand for liabilities is a source of mitigation riskappetite and how these risks commodities intoSupply, demand forsome of the risks we face.
and prices of commodities: and addition, through our governance ii incorporated Skills availability The Board assesses and approves processes and our proactive andretention into Operating.
our overall risk appetite, monitors management approach we seek ourrisk exposure and sets the tomitigate, wherepossible, the 2018 developments Group-wide limits, which are impacts of certain risks should Highest impact risks reviewed on an ongoing basis.
In particular: Significant changes were: process is supported by the Audit Our liquidity risk management and HSEC Committees, whose roles 1.
Supply, demand and prices policy requires us to maintain include evaluating and monitoring ofcommodities: there has viaa$3 billion minimum the risks inherent in their respective beenconsiderable volatility in prescribed level sufficient cash areas asdescribed on pages 104106. commodity prices over the past 12 and cash equivalents and other The current assessment of our months.
Any significant downturn sources ofcommitted funding principal risks, according to exposure in the current commodity price available tomeet anticipated and and impact, is detailed on the environment, especially in copper, unanticipated funding needs, following pages.
In accordance coal or zinc would have a severe including ensuring that the withUK Financial Reporting Council drag on our financial performance.
quantum of bonds maturing in guidance, we define a principal Additionally, the potential effects anyone yeardoes not exceed riskas a risk or combination of risks of new trade barriers could some $3billion that could seriously affect the reducedemand for certain of performance, future prospects or Making use of credit enhancement ourcommodities or restrict our reputation of Glencore.
These include products, such as letters of credit, supplies.
As a result, this continues those risks which would threaten the insurance policies and bank to be the Groups foremost risk.
business model, future performance, guarantees and imposing limits 2.
Currency exchange rates: 2018 solvency or liquidity of the Group.
We onopen accounts extended reflected a generally stronger look atrisk appetite from the context Our management of marketing USdollar versus producer country ofseverity of the consequences risk, including daily analysis of currencies.
While beneficial should the risk materialise, factors Group value at risk VaR overtheshort term to our locally influencing the risk and the denominated operating costs, Companys ability to mitigate it.
In Changes in principal risks thiscan be indicative of challenges compiling this assessment we have We believe that our principal risks in world economic conditions indicated the impact and likelihood have remained the same although andresulting risks to commodities of these risks in comparison with our assessment of their possible demand and prices.
Additionally, ayear ago in the chart opposite.
negative effect and the scale of rates can change for reasons 24 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information unlinked to commodities, whichcould result in mismatched 2018 developments and overview impact of pricing andcurrency ofprincipal risks and uncertainties movements, resulting in incomevolatility.
Geopolitical, permits and 5 11 1 licencesto operate: this risk has 2 become more prominent in 2018, 4 particularly in light of the various developments in theDRC.
Laws and enforcement: the 6 DoJinvestigation has considerably heightened the importance of this risk, together with other relevant 9 examples, including sanctions 7 imposition byUSauthorities.
Liquidity: while our net debt and net funding are relatively stable, 10 and cash flow coverage is healthy, we remain cognisant that access to credit is vital and that debt markets can be volatile.
Cyber: actual and attempted attacks on organisations continued to be prevalent.
Over time, we have Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain invested in our security platforms and data protection, andwe Probability continue to develop our approach and responses to this evolving risk.
Health, Safety, Environment: Risk impact aserious failure in HSE Moderate Major Severe management could result in an emergency orcatastrophe within External risks the business, which could result in 1 Supply, demand and prices of commodities injuries or fatalities and also impact 2 Currency exchange rates employees safety, production and 3 Geopolitical, permits and licences tooperate Glencores reputation.
Inparticular, 4 Laws and enforcement catastrophic hazards such as 5 Liquidity tailings dam failures and collapses ofpit walls or underground Business risks structures represent significant 6 Counterparty credit and performance unquantifiable risks.
Despite our 7 Operating efforts, our safety performance, 8 Cyber particularly as to fatalities, continues to be challenging, Sustainability risks mainly reflecting thelocation and 9 Climate change nature of many ofour operations.
10 Community relations and human rights 11 Health, Safety, Environment In response to the above challenges, capital expenditure Indicates change in 2018 remains at controllable levels andinitiatives continue to ensure weoperate at optimal working capital levels.
The Groupis committed to maintaining astrong BBB Baa investment grade rating balance sheet, which should support growth and shareholder returns regardless of thecommodity price environment, noting also the additional principal risks which theGroup faces.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 25 Impact Minor Moderate Major Severe Principal risks and uncertainties continued Longer-term viability In accordance with the requirements Understanding the information on risks of the UK Corporate Governance There are many risks and uncertainties Arecent example is available on our Code, the Board has assessed which have the potential to significantly website at: glencore.
com who-wetheprospects of the Groups impact our business, including are governance viabilityover the four-year period competitive, economic, political, legal, In addition, more information on from1January 2019.
This period regulatory, sustainability and financial ourrisks is available in the relevant isconsistent with the Groups risk.
The order inwhich these risks sections of our website.
established annual business anduncertainties appear does planning and forecasting processes notnecessarily reflect thelikelihood To provide for concise text: and cycle, which is subject to review oftheir occurrence ortherelative Where we hold minority interests magnitude of their potential material and approval each year by the Board.
incertain businesses, although these adverse effect onourbusiness.
The four-year plan considers entities are not generally subsidiaries, Glencores adjusted EBITDA, capital We have sought to provide examples the interests are mostly taken as expenditure, funds from operations ofspecific risks.
However, in every being referred to in analysing these FFO and net debt, and the key casethese do not attempt to be an risks, and business refers to these exhaustive list.
These principal risks and and any business of the Group financial ratios of net debt to uncertainties should be considered in adjusted EBITDA and FFO to net Where we refer to natural hazards, connection with any forward looking debt over the forecast years and events of nature or similar statements in this document as incorporates stress tests to simulate phraseology we are referring to explained on page 237. the potential impacts of exposure matters such as earthquake, Identifying, quantifying and managing flood, severe weather and other tothe Groups principal risks risk is complex and challenging.
Although it is our policy to identify Where we refer to mitigation These scenarios included: and, where appropriate and practical, wedonot intend to suggest that actively manage risk, our policies A prolonged downturn weeliminate the risk, but rather it andprocedures may not adequately shows the Groups attempt to reduce inthepriceand demand of identify, monitor and quantify all risks.
Our mitigation commodities most impacting This section describes our attempts ofrisks will usually include the Glencores operations tomanage, balance or offset risk.
takingout of insurance where it is Foreign exchange movements Riskis, however, by its very nature customary and economic to do so towhich the Group is exposed uncertain and inevitably events may This section should be read as a lead to our policies and procedures asaresult of its global operations whole often commentary in one nothaving amaterial mitigating section is relevant to other risks An increase in costs associated effecton the negative impacts of withopen regulatory commodity ies will usually refer theoccurrence ofa particular event.
tothose commodities which the investigationsand adverse Our scenario planning and stress Group produces or sells testing may accordingly prove to be geopolitical developments optimistic, particularly in situations law includes regulation of any type Consideration of the potential where materialnegative events occur impact of adverse movements risk includes uncertainty and in closeproximity.
Since many risks inmacro-economic assumptions hazard and together with material areconnected, our analysis should adverse effect on the business and their effect on certain key beread against all risks to which should be understood as a negative itmaybe relevant.
financial KPIs and ratios which change which can seriously affect could increase the Groups In this section, we have sought to the performance, future prospects accessto orcost of funding update our explanations, reflecting orreputation of the Group.
Mostly this include those risks which would The scenarios were assessed taking entailsemphasising certain risks threaten the business model, into account current risk appetite morestrongly than other risks rather futureperformance, reputation, and any mitigating actionsGlencore than the elimination of, or creation of, solvency orliquidity of the Group could take, asrequired, inresponse risks.
Certain investors may also be to the potential realisation of any A reference to a note is a note familiarwith the risk factors that are tothe2018 financial statements .
publishedin the Group debt or equity prospectuses or listing documents.
A reference to the sustainability Based on the results of the These provide in part some differing report is our 2018 sustainability relatedanalysis, the Directors have descriptions of our principal risks.
report to be published in April 2019 areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities asthey fall due over the four-year Strategic priorities period of this assessment.
They alsobelieve that the review period Integration of sustainability throughout our business offouryears is appropriate having regard to the Groups business Maintain a robust and flexible balance sheet model, strategy, principal risks Focus on cost control and operational efficiencies anduncertainties, andviability.
26 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information External risks 1 Supply, demand and prices of commodities Risk movement in 2018: Stable Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities A significant downturn in the price of commodities generally results inadecline in our cash flow and profitability, and could potentially result Risk appetite inimpairment and balance sheet constraints.
It is especially harmful to Low.
Outside of the inherent risk of commodity profitability in the industrial activities, which are more directly exposed prices on unmined reserves resources, flat toprice risk due to the higher level of fixed costs.
Government policy priceexposure on extracted or trading related decisions can be very important, e. g. in reducing the demand for coal positions is to be hedged, when possible.
orincreasing itspricing via carbon taxes see Climate change below.
Additionally, weseek to ensure this risk is Newor improved energy production or technologies can also reduce minimised through scale of operations thedemand for some commodities such as coal.
Major decisions by anddiversity of product.
governments can also lead to lower growth of some countries or regions, Risk description such as US China trade decisions and Brexit.
The revenue and earnings of substantial parts Any adverse economic developments, particularly impacting China ofour industrial activities and, to a lesser extent, andfastgrowing developing countries, could lead to reductions in our marketing activities, are dependent upon demandfor, and consequently price reductions of, commodities.
Commodity Future demand for certain commodities might decline e. g. fossil fuels, pricesare influenced by a number of external whereas others might increase such as copper, cobalt, and nickel for factors, including the supply of and demand theiruse in electric vehicles and batteries, taking into consideration forcommodities, speculative activities thegreening of the global economy.
bymarketparticipants, global political and This risk is currently prevalent in various commodities, such as steel, economic conditions, related industry coaland oil.
In particular, many analysts believe that demand for coal will cyclesandproduction costs in major producingcountries.
reduce sooner than previously expected due to significant cost reductions in renewable and alternate capacity.
We are dependent on the expected volumes The dependence of the Group especially our industrial business on ofsupply or demand for commodities which canvary for many reasons, such as competitor commodity prices, supply and demand of commodities, make this the Groups foremost risk.
See the Chief Executive Officers review on page 4 supply policies, changes in resource availability, and the financial review on page 52. government policies and regulation, costs ofproduction, global and regional economic conditions and demand in end markets for Mitigating factors productsin which the commodities are used.
Achieving operational efficiencies and enhanced focus on cost control.
These reasons also include technological Diversification of our portfolio of commodities, geographies, currencies, developments, e. g. commodity substitutions, assets and liabilities.
Maintaining a global portfolio of customers fluctuations in global production capacity, andcontracts.
globaland regional weather conditions, natural Preparing for shifts in commodity demand by putting a special focus disasters and diseases, all of which impact ontheparts of the business that will potentially grow with the anticipated globalmarkets anddemand for commodities.
increase of electric vehicles and battery production and closely monitor Furthermore, changes in expected supply fossil fuel particularly thermal coal demands.
anddemand conditions impact the expected future prices and thus the price curve of See the Chief Executive Officers review on page 4 and the financial eachcommodity.
2 Currency exchange rates Risk movement in 2018: Stable Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities Currency fluctuations tend to move in inverse correlation to commodity prices and supply and demand fundamentals as noted above, such that Risk appetite decreases in commodity prices are generally associated with increases Low.
Where possible foreign exchange FX inthe US dollar relative to local producer currencies and vice versa.
If this exposure to non-operating foreign exchange occurs then it is detrimental to us through higher equivalent US dollar riskare to behedged.
operating costs at the relevant operations.
This negative, however, would Risk description usually be offset to some extent by the increases in commodity prices The vast majority of our transactions are whichhad influenced this change.
denominated in US dollars, while operating costsare spread across many different countries, Mitigating factors the currencies of which fluctuate against the The FX inverse correlation described above usually provides a natural partial USdollar.
A depreciation in the value of the US FX hedge for the industrial business.
In respect of commodity purchase dollar against one or more of these currencies andsale transactions denominated incurrencies other than US dollars, willresult in an increase in the cost base of the theGroups policy is usually to hedge the specific future commitment relevant operations in US dollar terms.
From time to time, the Group The main currency exchange rate exposure mayhedge a portion of its currency exposures and requirements in an isthrough our industrial assets, as a large attempt to limit any adverse effect ofexchange rate fluctuations.
proportion of the costs incurred by these operations is denominated in the currency ofthecountry in which each asset is located.
Thelargest of these exposures are to the currencies listed on page 62.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 27 Principal risks and uncertainties continued External risks continued 3 Geopolitical, permits and licences to operate Risk movement in 2018: Increase Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities Policies or laws in the countries in which we do business may change inamanner that may be adverse for us, even those with stable political Risk appetite environments e. g. many governments have sought additional sources High.
We operate in countries with less developed ofrevenue by increasing rates of taxation, royalties or resource rent political and regulatory regimes.
To be considered taxesormay increase sustainability obligations.
a truly diversified commodities group, operations in these jurisdictions are required.
We have no control over changes to policies, laws and taxes.
Risk description In 2018 our operations have been subject to significant tax increases in We operate and own assets in a large number theDRC see below and Zambia.
Some other tax authorities have taken ofgeographic regions and countries, some of atougher approach to engaging with the Group which has in some which are categorised as developing, complex casesled to litigation.
orhaving unstable political or social climates.
The continued operation of our existing assets and future plans are in Asaresult, we are exposed to a wide range partdependent upon broad support, our social licence to operate, and ofpolitical, economic, regulatory, social and tax ahealthy relationship with the respective local communities see further environments.
The Group transacts business Community Relations and Operating risks concerning workforce disputes.
inlocations where it is exposed to a risk of overt oreffective expropriation resource nationalism In July 2018, a New DRC Mining Code came into effect.
The New DRC continues to be a challenging issue in many Mining Code introduced amongst other measures 1 a cap on a Companys countries.
Our operations may also be affected ability to repatriate excesscapital earned above itsinitial investment bypolitical and economic instability, including amount: 2 significantly higher taxes and royalties: and 3 potential state terrorism, civil disorder, violent crime, war ownership in certain projects of up to 10%.
Increased scrutiny by governments and tax Mitigating factors authorities in pursuit of perceived aggressive The Groups industrial assets are diversified across various countries.
taxstructuring by multinational companies has Also, the Group continues to actively engage with governmental elevated potential tax exposures for the Group.
authorities in light of upcoming changes and developments in legislationand enforcement policies.
The terms attaching to any permit or licence tooperate may be onerous and obtaining these See map on pages 23 which sets out our global operational footprint.
and other approvals, which may be revoked, We endeavour to design and execute our projects according to high canbe particularly difficult.
Furthermore, in legal, ethical, social, and human rights standards, and to ensure that certain countries title to land andrights and ourpresence inhostcountries leaves a positive lasting legacy see permits in respect of resources arenot always sustainability risksbelow.
This commitment is essential to effectively clear or may be challenged.
manage theserisks and to maintain our permits and licences to operate.
Adverse actions by governments and others The Group has an active engagement strategy with the governments, canresult in operational project delays or loss regulators and other stakeholders within the countries in which ofpermits or licences to operate.
Through, strong relationships with The suspension or loss of our permits or licences stakeholders we endeavour to secure and maintain our licences to operate could have a material adverse effect to operate.
on the Group and could also preclude Glencore In 2018, we also published our third Payments to Governments report.
from participating in bids and tenders for future Thisdetailed total government contributions in 2017 of over $4 billion.
business and projects, therefore affecting the Italso set out details of payments on a project by project basis.
Wealsocontinue to be an active member of the Extractive Industries Our licences to operate through mining rights Transparency Initiative EITI.
aredependent on a number of factors, including compliance with regulations.
It also depends onconstructive relationships with a wide and diverse range of stakeholders.
28 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information External risks continued 4 Laws and enforcement Risk movement in 2018: Increase Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities During the year: Risk appetite 1.
F ollowing the designation by the US Government USG of Dan Gertler andaffiliated companies as Specially Designated Nationals SDNs, Medium.
The Group maintains programmes therebyimposing blocking sanctions on them and companies owned which seek to ensure that we comply with 50%or more by them, the Group had to consider whether it was able orexceed thelaws and external requirements applicable toour operations and products.
tosatisfy contractual obligations to make royalty and pas-fide-porte payments in respect ofKCCand Mutanda.
Following litigation processes However, some ofour industrial activities andnegotiations, these obligations are now being satisfied other than arelocated in countries that are categorised inUSdollars andwithout the involvement of US persons, which Glencore asdeveloping, complex or havingpolitical orsocialclimates and or where corruption believes appropriately addresses all applicable sanctions regulations.
United Company Rusal plc was designated by the USG as a SDN, which ledto Mr Glasenberg resigning from his position as a director of Rusal Risk description andrequired careful monitoring of the trading relationship with Rusal.
We are exposed to extensive laws including thoserelating to bribery and corruption, 3.
A dispute between Katanga Mining Limited KML and La Generales sanctions, taxation, anti-trust, financial desCarrieres et des Mines Gecamines led to a $5.6 billion marketsregulation, environmental protection, recapitalisation of KCC and additional settlement costs totalling useofhazardous substances, product safety $248million, see note 33 ofthe financial statements.
On 3 July 2018, a subsidiary received a subpoena from the US Department ofnatural resources, licences over resources, ofJustice DOJ to produce documents and other records with respect exploration, production and post-closure tocompliance by the Group with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and reclamation, employment of labour and USmoney laundering statutes.
The requested documents related to occupational health and safety standards.
ourbusiness in Nigeria, the DRC and Venezuela from 2007.
The legal system and dispute resolution In the event that the DOJ investigation identifies wrong doing, the mechanisms in some countries may be coststothe Group, whether by way of legal fees, penalties, ongoing uncertainso that we may be unable to enforce monitoring, reputational or otherwise, could be material.
The Ontario Securities Commission OSC approved a settlement pursuant lawsuits based upon damage resulting from to which KML, a subsidiary, acknowledged that it had i misstated its operations could lead to the imposition of financial position and results: ii failed to maintain adequate disclosure substantial penalties, the cessation of operations, and internal controls: iii failed to disclose material weaknesses inits compensation and remedial and or preventative internal controls: and iv failed to adequately describe the heightened risks orders.
Moreover, the costs associated with associated with its operating environment, specifically the elevated legalcompliance, including regulatory permits, riskof corruption in the DRC and its reliance on individuals and entities are substantial and increasing.
Any changes to associated with Dan Gertler.
Adverse findings were also made against these laws or their more stringent enforcement certain of its former directors and officers FDOs.
orrestrictive interpretation could cause additional KML agreed to make voluntary payments to the OSC totalling C$30m significant expenditure to be incurred or and to submittoa review by an independent consultant of its metal causesuspensions of operations and delays accounting.
The FDOs have been subjected to fines and costs orders inthedevelopment of industrial assets.
Failure anddirector andofficer bans of up to C$2.5m and six years.
toobtainor renew a necessary permit or the 6.
In December 2018, investigations were commenced relating to occurrence of other disputes could mean transactions in Brazil with Petrobras by a number of trading companies, thatwewould be unable to proceed with the development or continued operation of an including Glencore.
assetand or impede our ability to develop 7.
Other investigations concerning Glencore which commenced during newindustrial properties.
theyear include an investigation by PRC authorities into shipments oflead materials into China.
As a diversified sourcing, marketing and distribution company conducting complex 8.
See Risk 3 opposite concerning adverse tax matters.
transactions globally, we are exposed to the risksof fraud, corruption, sanctions breaches Mitigating factors andother unlawful activities both internally We seek to ensure compliance through our commitment to complying andexternally.
Our marketing operations are withorexceeding the laws and external requirements applicable largein scale, which may make fraudulent toouroperations and products and through monitoring of legislative oraccidental transactions difficult to detect.
requirements, engagement with government and regulators, and Inaddition, some of our industrial activities compliance with the termsof permits and licences.
arelocated in countries, wherecorruption is We seek tomitigate the risk of breaching applicable laws and external generally seen.
Corruption andsanctions risks requirements through our risk management framework which is described remain highly relevant for businesses operating on page 104.
The Group has dedicated Legal and Compliance resources ininternational markets asshown by recent inplace and internal policies, procedures and control with compliance to regulatory enforcement actions both inside assist Group businesses.
Furthermore, the Group conducts trainingand andoutside the resourcessector.
However, there can be noassurance that such policies, procedures and controls will adequately protect the Group against fraud, corruption, sanctions breaches or otherunlawful activities.
In response to the heightened risks, the Board has established acommittee that focuses on monitoring ethics and compliance, andseeking to ensure that business practices are aligned with theCompanys culture, see page100.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 29 Principal risks and uncertainties continued External risks continued 5 Liquidity Risk movement in 2018: Stable Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities A lack of liquidity may mean that we will not have sufficient funds available Risk appetite for our marketing and industrial activities, both of which employ substantial Low.
It is the Groups policy to operate a BBB amounts of capital.
If we do not have funds available for these activities rating or above balance sheet and to ensure then they will decrease.
thataminimum level of cash and or committed This is particularly the case during the current period when the fundingisavailable at any given time.
USFederalReserve and European Central Bank are adopting tighter Risk description monetary policies, which could lead to the credit markets contracting Our failure to access funds liquidity andbecoming more expensive.
wouldseverely limit our ability to engage Note 26 details our financial and capital risk management including indesired activities.
Liquidity risk is the risk that we are unable Note 28 details the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities.
tomeet our payment obligations when due, orare unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow Mitigating factors funds in the market at an acceptable price to In light of the Groups extensive funding activities, maintaining investment fund our commitments.
While we adjust our grade credit rating status is a financial priority.
The Groups credit ratings are minimum internal liquidity threshold from currently Baa2 positive outlook from Moodys and BBB stable outlook timetotime inresponse to changes in market from Standard & Poors.
Glencores publicly stated objective, as part of its conditions, thisminimum internal liquidity overall financial policy package, is to seek and maintain strong Baa BBB targetmay be breached due to circumstances credit ratings from Moodys and Standard & Poors respectively.
Insupport weare unable tocontrol, such as general market of this, Glencore targets a maximum 2x Net debt Adjusted EBITDA ratio disruptions, sharp movements in commodity through the cycle, augmented by an upper Net debt cap of $16 billion.
This prices or an operational problem that affects financial policy facilitates access to funds, even in periods of market volatility.
The Financial Review on page 52 sets out the Groups Net Funding andNetDebt in 2018.
However, it should be noted that the credit ratings agencies apply a haircut to the value of our RMI, such that their calculated netdebt is higher.
We remain cognisant that access to credit is vital and that market conditions can change rapidly.
As such, we have over the years reduced ourbond portfolio significantly and optimised our bond debt maturity profile to no more than c. $3 billion of bonds maturing per annum.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had available undrawn committed credit facilities and cash amounting to $10.2 billion 31 December 2017: $12.8billion, comfortably ahead of our $3 billion minimum prescribed level.
Business risks 6 Counterparty credit and performance Risk movement in 2018: Stable Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities Non-performance by suppliers, customers and hedging counterparties may occur and cause losses in a range of situations, such as: Risk appetite Low.
Where possible, credit exposure is A significant increase in commodity prices resulting in suppliers being coveredthrough credit mitigation products.
unwilling to honour their contractual commitments to sell commodities at pre-agreed prices Risk description Financial assets consisting principally A significant reduction in commodity prices resulting in customers ofreceivables and advances, derivative beingunwilling or unable to honour their contractual commitments instruments and long-term advances and topurchase commodities at pre-agreed prices loanscan expose us to concentrations of Suppliers subject to prepayment or hedging counterparties may find creditrisk.
themselves unable to honour their contractual obligations due to Furthermore, we are subject to financial distress or other reasons non-performance risk by our suppliers, customers and hedging counterparties, Mitigating factors in particular via our marketing activities.
We monitor the credit quality of our counterparties and seek to reduce therisk of customer non-performance by requiring credit support from creditworthy financial institutions including making extensive use of creditenhancement products, such as letters of credit, bank guarantees and insurance policies.
Specific credit risk policy rules apply to open account risk with an established threshold for referral of credit positions bydepartments to central management.
In addition, note 26 details ourfinancial and capital risk management approach.
30 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Business risks continued 7 Operating Risk movement in 2018: Stable Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities The development and operating of assets may lead to future upward revisions in estimated costs, delays or other operational difficulties or Risk appetite damage to properties or facilities.
This may cause production to be Low.
It is the Companys strategic objective reduced or to cease and may further result in personal injury or death, tofocus on its people and to conduct safe, thirdparty damage or loss or require greater infrastructure spending.
Also, the realisation of these risks could require significant additional Risk description capital and operating expenditures.
Our industrial activities are subject to numerous Some of the Groups interests in industrial assets do not constitute risks and hazards normally associated with controlling stakes.
Although the Group has various structures in place theinitiation, development, operation and or which seek to protect its position where it does not exercise control, expansion of natural resource projects, many theseother shareholders may have interests or goals that are inconsistent ofwhich are beyond our control.
They may take action contrary to the Groups interests or be unanticipated variations in grade and other unable orunwilling to fulfil their obligations.
geological problems so that anticipated orstatedreserves, may not conform to Infrastructure availability remains a key risk, e. g. availability of continuous expectations.
Other examples include natural high-voltage power to our copper operations in the Democratic Republic hazards, processing problems, technical ofCongo.
We are continuing to monitor the progress of long-term power malfunctions, unavailability of materials and solutions via the Ingadam refurbishment.
equipment, unreliability and or constraints of Many employees, especially at the Groups industrial activities, are infrastructure, industrial accidents, labour force represented by labour unions under various collective labour agreements.
challenges, disasters, protests, force majeure Their employing company may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate factors, cost overruns, delays in permitting or itscollective labour agreements when they expire and may face other regulatory matters, vandalism and crime.
toughernegotiations or higher wage demands than would be the case The maintenance of positive employee fornon-unionised labour.
In addition, existing labour agreements may andunionrelations and the ability to attract notprevent astrike or work stoppage.
andretain skilled workers, including senior management, are key to our success.
This Mitigating factors attraction and retention of highly qualified and Development and operating risks and hazards are managed through skilled personnel can be challenging, especially, ourcontinuous project status evaluation and reporting processes and but not only, inlocations experiencing political ongoing assessment, reporting and communication of the risks orcivil unrest, or in which they may be exposed thataffectour operations along with updates to the risk register.
We publish quarterly our production results and annually our assessment of reserves and resources based on available drilling and other data sources.
Conversion of resources to reserves and, eventually, reserves to production is an ongoing process that takes into account technical and operational challenges, economics of the particular commodities concerned and theimpact on the communities in which we operate.
Local cost control measures are complemented by global procurement thatleverages our scale to seek to achieve favourable terms on high-consumption materials such as fuel, explosives and tyres.
Details of the significant impairments recorded during the year are contained in note 6.
Deterioration in the price outlook or operating difficulties may result in additional impairments.
One of the key factors in our success is a good and trustworthy relationshipwith our people.
This priority is reflected in the principles of oursustainability programme and related guidance, which require regular, open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, a safe working environment, asoutlined on our website at: glencore.
com careers our-culture andinthe Our People section on page 47.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 31 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Business risks continued 8 Cyber Risk movement in 2018: Stable Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities Our activities depend on technology for industrial production, efficientoperations, environmental management, health and safety, Risk appetite communications, transaction processing and risk management.
Where possible, cyber exposure risks Werecognise that the increasing convergence of IT and Operational aremitigated through layered cyber security, Technology OT networks will create new risks and demand additional proactive monitoring and routine penetration management time and focus.
We also depend on third parties in long testing to confirm security of systems.
supply chains that are exposed to the same cyber risks but which are Risk description largely outside our control.
Cyber risks for firms have increased significantly On 25 May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR came inrecent years owing in part to the proliferation intoforce across the European Union EU and the European Economic ofnew digital technologies, increasing degree Area EEA which required us to verify that our systems and processes ofconnectivity and a material increase in arecompliant.
Our IT security monitoring platforms frequently detect attempts to A cyber security breach, incident or failure breachour networks and systems.
During 2018, none of these events ofGlencores IT systems could disrupt our resulted inamaterial breach of our IT environment nor resulted in a businesses, put employees at risk, result in material businessimpact.
thedisclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and create significantfinancial and legal exposures.
Mitigating factors We have invested in global IT security platforms in order to proactively Although Glencore invests heavily to monitor, monitor and manage our cyber risks.
We conduct routine third party maintain and regularly upgrade its systems, penetration tests to independently confirm the security of our IT systems processes and networks, absolute security and we seek to enhance monitoring of our Operational Technology OT isnotpossible.
We publish security standards and educate ouremployees in order to raise awareness of cyber security threats.
We have started a programme to evaluate the cyber security posture ofthird parties that hold materially sensitive information about Glencore.
Our IT Security Council sets the global cyber security strategy, conducts regular risk assessments and designs cyber security solutions that seek todefend against emerging malware, virus, vulnerabilities and other cyberthreats.
Our Cyber Defence Centre is responsible for day-to-day monitoring of cyber vulnerabilities across the world and driving remediation of threats.
We have an incident response team that is responsible for coordinating theresponse in the event of a major cyber incident.
32 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Sustainability risks 9 Climate change Risk movement in 2018: Increase Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities Many developed countries are pledging to stop using fossil fuels specifically coal inpower generation.
In December 2018, global Risk appetite  representing $11.5tn have set out their requirements High.
Our business involves producing and toinvestee power companies to set out transition plans consistent consuming fossil fuels along with processing withthegoal oftheParis Agreement.
They also expect explicit time minerals which inevitably entails emitting linesand commitments for the rapid elimination of coal use by utilities harmful emissions.
Risk description As a result of these factors, some other market participants and analysts Climate change is a material issue that have amore bearish view some strongly so in relation to coal and affectsourbusiness and creates both risks oilandbelieve thatmany fossil fuel assets could become stranded, andopportunities.
As a significant producer i. e. nolonger capable ofoperating for an economic return with the andconsumer of energy products, energy capitalinvested being irretrievably lost.
Some investors may not invest isakeyinput and costtoour business as inour shares or divest their holdings due to our significant operations wellasbeing amaterialsource of our carbon infossil fuels.
Proposals for a transition to a low-carbon economy and its associated public This is particularly relevant for us as the worlds largest producer policydevelopment, may increase costs for ofseaborne thermal coal and a significant marketer of fossil fuels.
fossilfuels, impose levies for emissions and We are one of the major producers of key metals including copper, increase costs formonitoring and reporting cobalt, nickel that are currently essential for electric vehicles and andto reduce demand for ourenergy products.
thetransition to a low-carbon economy, although technological Third parties, including potential or actual changemay over time reduce their requirement.
investors, may alsointroduce policies adverse totheCompany due toits interest in fossilfuels.
Mitigating factors A number of national governments have Through our sustainability programme, we strive to ensure emissions alreadyintroduced, or are contemplating andclimatechange issues are identified, understood and monitored theintroduction of regulatory responses inorder to meetinternational best practice standards and ensure togreenhouse gasemissions.
countries where we have assets such asAustralia, Canadaand Chile, aswell as We openly and transparently disclose our energy and carbon emissions customermarkets such as China, India footprint.
This supports our identification, understanding and monitoring andEurope.
ofemissions and climate change issues.
Climate change may increase physical risks We seek to manage our coal business tightly around cash generation, toourindustrial assets, largely driven from including ensuring that ongoing further investment has relatively quick waterrelated risks such as flooding or cost pay-backs so asto mitigate stranded-assets risk.
We review and analyse high-level climate change trends, including regulatory compliance and physical and reputational impacts for our operating regions.
Wemonitor revisions to energy and carbon scenarios and their potential impacton our business.
Following engagement with investor signatories of the Climate Action 100 initiative, we have furthered our commitment to a low-carbon economy, amongst others by limiting our coal production capacity broadlyto current levels.
Please refer to pages 2021 for further details.
Our internal, cross-function and multi-commodity working group, ledbyour Chairman, co-ordinates our understanding and planning fortheeffects of climatechange on our business, as well as the steps weneed toput in place tomeet ourgroup-wide carbon emission intensityreduction target of 5% on2016levels by2020.
We are continuingto invest in a range of emission reduction projects.
We participate in a wide range of public policy discussions on carbon andenergyissues and seek to ensure that there is a balanced debate withregard tothe ongoing use of fossil fuels.
Further information is available at: glencore.
com sustainability climate-change Glencore Annual Report 2018 33 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Sustainability risks continued 10 Community relations and human rights Risk movement in 2018: Stable Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities A perception that we are not respecting human rights or generating local sustainable benefits could have a negative impact on our social licence Risk appetite tooperate, our ability to secure access to new resources and our financial Low.
It is our policy to ensure weproactively performance.
The consequences of adverse community reaction or engage with local communities to maintain allegations ofhuman rights incidents could also have a material adverse oursociallicence to operate.
impact on the cost, profitability, ability to finance or even the viability Risk description ofanoperation and the safety and security of our workforce and assets.
Our operations have a significant effecton Locally based events could escalate todisputes with regional and national ourworkforce, and  governments as well as with other stakeholders and potentially result in and on societyas a whole.
We recognise the reputational damage and social instability that may affect the perceived contribution our business activities make and real value of our assets.
tothenational and local economiesin which weoperate.
Asaresult, the continued success Mitigating factors ofourexisting operations and our future We take a proactive and strategic approach to our stakeholder and projectsare in part dependent onbroad community engagement.
We support the advancement of the interests supportand ahealthy relationship with the ofboth our hostcommunities and our assets.
We take a cross-functional communities surrounding our operations approach to understanding and managing our socio-economic aswellasour abilityto promote diversified contributions to deliver sharedvalue while managing our impact andresilient localeconomies.
We uphold and respect the human rights of our people and our local communities.
Where we may cause adverse impacts on our stakeholders, we seek to apply relevant international standards to understand, control and mitigate the impact.
We also seek to apply the Voluntary Principles onSecurity and Human Rights in regions where there is a high risk to human rights.
We seek to make our grievance mechanisms available to the community members impacted by our operations.
We review all complaints received andtakeactions when necessary to address the issues raised.
Further information is available on our website at: glencore.
com sustainability  34 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Sustainability risks continued 11 Health, safety, environment Risk movement in 2018: Increase Comments impacts to the Group Link to strategic priorities Our diversity, in terms of geographical locations, working conditions,  and workforce, means that we need to take a Risk appetite localapproach to transforming attitudes towards catastrophic hazard Low.
It is our policy to ensure we complywith management, including safety and health practices as well as resolving orexceed the health,  environmental challenges.
laws and external requirements applicable toouroperations and products.
Environmental, safety and health regulations may result in increased costsor, intheevent of non-compliance or incidents causing injury Risk description ordeathor other damage at or to our facilities or surrounding areas We are committed to ensuring the safetyand mayresultin significant losses.
These include, those arising from 1 wellbeing of our people andthe communities interruptions in production, litigation and imposition of penalties and and environment around us.
Catastrophic sanctions and 2 having licences and permits withdrawn or suspended eventsthat takeplace in thenatural resource while being forced to undertake extensive remedial clean-up action or sector canhave disastrous impacts on workers, topay for government-ordered remedial clean-up actions.
communities, the environment and corporate reputation, as well as a substantial financial cost.
Liability may also arise from the actions of any previous or subsequent owners oroperators of the property, by any past or present owners The success of our business is dependent ofadjacent properties, or by third parties.
Managing riskstothe safety and health of our people is A number of our assets are in regions with poor approaches towards essential for their long-term wellbeing.
It also personal safety, little or no access to health facilities, and poor working helps ustomaintain our productivity and conditions, organisational cultures and workforce.
As a result, we need reducethe likelihood of workplace totake a flexible localapproach to transforming our workforces safety compensationclaims.
Our operations at assets around the world We recognise the contribution a healthy community makes towards canhave direct and indirect impacts on therobustness of our production processes.
Our ability tomanage and areoften our employees, contractors, procurement partners and mitigate these impacts may result in the loss serviceproviders.
Wework with local authorities, local community ofour operating licences as well as affecting representatives and other partners, suchasNGOs, to help to overcome future projectsand acquisitions.
majorpublic healthissues in theregions wherewe work, such as HIV AIDS, malaria andtuberculosis.
Our operations are often sited close to communities with limited healthcare.
We regret that we recorded thirteen fatalities at our operations in 2018.
Localhealth services might be in the early stagesof development, or local authorities Mitigating factors maynot have the resources tocope with Our approach to sustainability and our expectations of our workers thescaleof need.
andourbusiness partners are outlined in our sustainability framework.
Thisunderpins ourapproach towards social, environmental, safety andcompliance indicators, providing clear guidance on the standards weexpect all our operations toachieve.
Through the reporting function withinthe programme, our Board andsenior management receive regularupdates and have a detailed oversight onhow ourbusiness isperforming across all of the sustainability indicators.
We monitor catastrophic risks, in particular, across our portfolio andoperate emergency response programmes.
Compliance with international and local regulations and standards isarequirement.
We remain focused on the significant risks facing our industry arising fromoperational catastrophes such as the tailings dam collapses inCanada Mount Polley and in Brazil Samarco and Brumadinho inthelastfiveyears, andmine wall collapses at our operations in DRC andColombia.
Tailing dams in particular remain a significant risk and willbeagreater area of focus via our dam safety assurance programme, regular surveillance inspections and verification of all corrective actions taken.
Weseek tolearnfrom theseevents, andproactively assess our exposure tosimilar incidents andimplement measures to avoid these.
Considerable ongoing investment continues in the Groups SafeWork healthandsafety programme.
See also the Sustainability review on page 36 and the HSEC Committee report onpage 112.
Further details will also be published in our 2018 sustainability report.
