Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS: OUR IDENTIFY, MONITOR AND CONTROL APPROACH Our risk management framework is designed to identify the principal risks to our business and ensure that they are being appropriately monitored, that controls are in place and that required actions have clear ownership and accountability.
Risk management approach elements and have considered the controls we have in place to Good risk management is fundamental for meeting our operational mitigate this threat.
The cyber and information security risk was a and strategic objectives.
The competitive market we operate in new principal risk in 2017.
It is considered that the likelihood of the requires effective decision making, ensuring we properly assess risk has reduced owing to the significant activity and development risks, apply controls and calculate returns.
We need to be resilient to of our safeguards in this area over the last year.
risks we have limited control over, by maintaining adequate disaster recovery and business continuity procedures.
We are embedding our risk management culture and applying a MAPPING OUR KEY RISKS three lines of defence model throughout the business.
2017 was POST MITIGATION a year of designing and implementing enhanced processes with related risk and control matrices.
Our focus in 2018 has been on embedding those changes within a culture of continuous improvement, with robust controls forming part of day-to-day activities.
Our overall risk management approach is to nurture a responsive, forward-looking, consistent and accountable culture of risk 1 3 7 management.
Rigorous risk assessment We consider a range of risk categories, including strategic, market, financial, legal or regulatory, operational, IT, project and people.
We identify individual risks using both a bottom-up and a top-down 8 2 approach.
6 4 5 9 We determine the potential probability and impact of each risk and Low Medium High give it a gross before mitigation and net after mitigation score.
Impact This identifies which risks depend heavily on internal mitigating controls.
Market and transactional see page 34 We use a risk-scoring matrix to ensure we take a consistent 2.
Financial see page 34 approach when assessing the overall impact.
Regulatory see page 35 areas, we base their likelihood on how often they occur in a rolling 4.
We record their impact and likelihood scores in 5.
Supplier see page 35 departmental risk registers.
Health and safety see page 36 reviews these registers at least quarterly.
Development see page 36 top risk report for consideration by the Executive Committee and 8.
Cyber and information security see page 36 9.
Customers see page 36 Audit Committee.
Movement from 2017 This year we have removed the Strategy risk from our principal Decreased risks because the implementation of our strategy is well under way.
We have modified our Market risk to include transactional 32 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Likelihood Low Medium High Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information External audit Risk control framework and appetite principal risk report.
The Audit Committee supports the Board by The Board has ultimate responsibility for Graingers risk monitoring and reviewing the control processes and mitigation for management and internal control systems, and for determining the identified risks.
It also ensures we reconsider the principal risks.
We have built on last years detailed We monitor the internal control framework for these risks through assessment of risk appetite for our principal risks.
The Board the Internal Audit monitoring plan and the resulting audit continues to adopt a generally low tolerance for risk, particularly outcomes.
For more information on internal controls, please refer for regulatory and reputational matters.
However, following an to page 54. in-depth assessment of Graingers strategy carried out in the summer of 2018, the Board decided to invest in the development Assurance on risk controls is provided by internal management business to capitalise on the substantial opportunity within the information, internal audits, external audits and Board oversight.
Our appetite for development risk has increased as We also carried out a process of assurance mapping our principal a consequence.
To complement the risk framework, we have developed key risk We have an externally supported whistleblowing hotline that staff indicators to monitor the change in the level of risk exposure can use anonymously if they do not wish to use our other processes associated with specific processes and activities and to assess for raising concerns.
whether the business is operating within the set risk appetite.
GDPR compliance has been a major project within Grainger this The Board approves the risk management framework developed year.
The project has introduced a range of controls in the form of by the Executive Committee.
Our internal governance structure policies, processes and systems to achieve compliance with the complements our evolution to a three lines of defence model, legislation and manage the associated risks.
with a view to having clear divisions between each line.
This framework includes various management committees, with Looking forward to next year the areas of focus will include dedicated risk registers, overseeing key investment, operational embedding our GDPR compliance and the new key risk indicators and corporate functions.
We are striving to enhance our risk and control environment by leveraging technology to automate processes The management committees and the Executive Committee and increase preventative control systems.
examine the identified risks, reported controls, mitigation and the RISK CONTROL FRAMEWORK Board and Audit Committee Executive Committee 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Management and Risk management Internal audit financial controls and compliance Policy and procedure Executive deep dives Risk-based review audit Understanding of risk Key performance indicators management Oversight by management committees Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33
