Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Managing our principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have systematically assessed the Groups principal risks.
They have considered them across four years, which aligns with our viability statement on page 37.
The Board has closely considered the potential risks arising from the UK leaving the European Union Brexit.
The Board continues to hold the view that the ongoing material lack of supply of homes in the UK substantially mitigates the risks to Grainger that may arise from Brexit.
Our opinion is that the Companys exposure to this risk is not materially higher than similar UK-focused businesses.
As at the date of this report, there is much uncertainty regarding a potential no-deal Brexit and what this would mean for trade, our economy and the future political landscape.
Brexit is still a risk to the business in the context of wider geo-political and economic uncertainty, and the impact this may have on the real estate and capital markets.
This being so, the potential risks of Brexit are specified in respect of a number of our principal risks.
Principal risks, uncertainties and opportunities Risks are considered by the Board as an intrinsic part of strategy setting and consideration of new opportunities.
Category of risk Risk description Impact on strategy Key mitigants Risk status 1.
Market and Weak macro-economic Economic uncertainty We are transitioning the business to reduce transactional conditions leading to leading to a reduction in reliance on trading income and house price long-term flat or negative home ownership and less inflation.
valuation movements and demand for assets that we We have a high proportion of liquid and diverse or the inability to transact are looking to dispose of: assets to enable sales where necessary, a and acquire PRS assets on pressure on rental levels: strategy we successfully employed in the last acceptable terms.
This could falling asset values: economic downturn.
arise due to poor market subsequent investment We have a geographically diverse portfolio and conditions associated with constraints on further exercise active asset management to enhance the cyclical nature of the investment into the PRS: returns.
We have target towns and cities for real estate sector or covenant compliance risk: future investment.
potentially negative unable to provide Focus on the PRS potentially leverages greater consequences arising from shareholders with customer flexibility and lower overall financial Brexit.
sustainable returns in the commitment compared with home ownership.
Renting could be attractive for customers during Risk opportunity uncertain economic periods.
Capitalise on the substantial opportunity in the PRS.
Financial The inability to obtain Lack of finance from credit We monitor our banking covenants closely to sufficient finance arising markets and cash resources: maintain sufficient capacity.
from external factors events breach of loan and bond We carry out detailed financial viability including, but not limited to, covenants: adverse sensitivity testing and develop clear mitigation Brexit which impacts the movement in interest rates contingency plans.
ability to fund the delivery of could have an unacceptable We conduct our business within Board-approved the strategy and maintain a impact on the cost of new capital operating guidelines and interest rate strong capital structure.
debt: inability to fund hedging policy.
acquisitions at the relevant We have a diversity of finance sources.
Due to our close monitoring of the transactional Utilise financial strength to pipeline, we can control the timing and number deliver our strategy and of acquisitions to reduce cash outflows if operate our business.
Our strategic focus is to increase income credentials to provide greater interest cover.
Impact on our business model Impact on our strategy Risk change Originate Grow rents Unchanged Invest Simplify and focus Decreased Operate Build on our experience 34 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information Category of risk Risk description Impact on strategy Key mitigants Risk status 3.
Regulatory Failure to meet current or Fines, penalties and We have an ongoing programme of additional regulatory sanctions: damage to management and staff training, including in obligations or anticipate and reputation: loss of relation to GDPR.
respond to changes in operational efficiency and We employ specialist legal, compliance and regulation that increase competitiveness: increased corporate affairs teams which monitor and cost.
These include the costs: reduction in market advise internally, review the regulatory horizon introduction of rent controls opportunities: impact on and have close involvement with leading or similar limitations, the ability to finance industry bodies.
new privacy and data opportunities: reduced We have strict asset management controls protection regime imposed ability to generate rents: and compliance processes which can adapt as by the GDPR, and the inability to build competitive required.
See page 31 for details of our proactive operating framework facing PRS portfolio: attracting management of the forthcoming Minimum UK businesses in connection adverse publicity regarding Energy Efficiency Standards, as an example.
with Brexit and the political a data breach and leading to Our position as the UKs leading PRS provider uncertainty that it has significant numbers of data brings a cultural ethos of seeking to adopt fostered and which may subject rights requests.
Risk opportunity Enhance the reputation and the long term sustainability of the business.
People Failure to attract, retain and Reduced ability to achieve We have introduced a talent identification develop our people to business plan and strategy: process and have succession plans and retention ensure we have the right reduced control: inability to strategies for key staff.
skills in the right place at the grow market share of the We have a programme of learning and right time for our strategy: PRS: failure to innovate and development for staff, which includes failure to increase female evolve to maintain management and leadership training.
and ethnic minority competitiveness in a We carry out regular performance reviews representation at senior customer-driven market: and appraisals of staff.
levels within the damage to reputation.
We identify opportunities for staff to develop, organisation.
and we provide internal career progression.
We undertake an annual employee engagement Risk opportunity survey and we carry out wellbeing activities.
Build expertise and capability in the business to execute strategic goals.
Supplier A significant failure within, or Increased costs: inability to We have control over our technology suppliers by, a key third-party supplier achieve performance via our Connect technology project.
objectives: legal action and Our internal controls and management systems regulatory sanctions: regarding contractors suppliers, which include Risk opportunity reputational damage: counterparty reviews and covenant strength Maintain a high level of customer dissatisfaction: a assessments, are well developed.
service to our customers restriction on ability to grow Experienced senior managers oversee and exceed expectations.
on organisational or We have sufficient diversity of key suppliers portfolio growth plans: and relationships with potential suppliers to increased Grainger workload minimise over-reliance on any one organisation.
to reschedule reactive and or planned maintenance in a timely manner.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Category of risk Risk description Impact on strategy Key mitigants Risk status 6.
Health A significant health and Harm to customers, tenants, We have specific management systems and and safety safety incident as a result of employees, contractors or compliance assessments to mitigate health and inadequate or visit ors: possible legal ac tion safety risk, including technological solutions and inappropriately or fine: subsequent a programme of audit and assurance.
We employ a specialist Health and Safety Director and team who are responsible for Risk opportunity overseeing compliance.
Maintain a high level of Our risk management framework applies close compliance which enhances oversight and reporting of health and safety our reputation as a leader in matters.
We have planned and reactive maintenance measures in place.
For example, we are in the process of reviewing and replacing flat front doors across our portfolio, whilst also engaging with and having regard to the Dame Judith Hackitt report.
We allocate a portion of our Exposure to risk of cost We monitor the capital we deploy to Development capital to activities which overrun or income shortfall, development matters carefully, following capital carry development risk.
affecting achievement of the allocation guidelines.
strategy and returns in We employ an experienced team with specialist Risk opportunity developing rent schemes.
development skills and have established Take advantage of the Brexit could conceivably relationships with expert advisers and demand for homes increase labour costs as well development partners.
specifically designed and as the ability to source We have an established governance structure to built for renting.
review and monitor our development schemes.
As part of our PRS strategy, the portfolio of development schemes focuses on build-to-rent assets and does not seek speculative returns from investing in development that is solely for sale.
Cyber and The breach of confidential Financial loss: fines: We employ an experienced IT team and work with information data or technology reputational damage: trusted suppliers, to deploy cyber protection tools.
security disruption due to an internal operational and business Technology is a key part of our strategy.
We are or external attack on our disruption: loss of customers: investing in new technology platforms and information systems and loss of employees: share related processes that have data security by data or by internal security price devaluation: inability to design and compliance with GDPR.
serve our customers, manage We engage external advisers to carry out regular our properties and conduct penetration testing to ensure our systems are Risk opportunity our business: competitive robust.
Ensure that we are a disadvantage: inability to Staff training and awareness of our IT policies trustworthy and secure meet contractual obligations.
and commitment to data protection.
landlord for our customers data.
Customers The failure to implement Negative publicity: increased We have a leading operational platform with change initiatives to people, complaints: poor customer substantial experience in managing a portfolio processes and technology to experience: reputational of over 2bn of assets and of meeting the fulfil our customer service damage: loss of customers: requirements of our residential customers.
standards to all our existing lower rental increases.
Our new operating model is designed to provide and future customers a platform for optimising a customer-focused resulting in the loss of our strategy.
position as the UKs leading We carry out proactive asset management.
have restructured to increase staff time in the field and gain greater asset and customer Risk opportunity knowledge.
Establish a leading We carry out customer service focused reviews reputation in the sector for measuring customer preferences and customer service.
36 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
