STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties RISK MANAGEMENT Greene King is not alone in facing a range of risks and uncertainties in the course of its business.
Ouraim is to identify and manage these risks effectively so that we can deliver on our strategic objective of being the best pub and beer company in the UK and to maximise shareholder returns.
BOARD Overall responsibility for risk management Sets the groups risktolerance AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE Delegated responsibility for monitoring risk profile andmitigation Regularly reviews risk management process foreachdivisionand functional area GROUP RISK COMMITTEE BUSINESS UNIT Reviews individual risk registers and mitigation plans ANDFUNCTIONAL AREA SENIORMANAGEMENT Ensures consistency of risk profiling across thegroup Responsibility for identification of risks, implementation of mitigating actions and Aggregates risk registers to create group maintenance of business unit and functional risk register riskregisters Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties continued APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT Board Management The board has overall responsibility for ensuring that there is a robust Executive directors and other senior management are responsible for the assessment of the principal risks facing the group, being those which would implementation of risk management and internal control systems, with each threaten our business model, future performance and solvency and liquidity.
business unit or functional area responsible for identifying, assessing and The board has defined the group-level risk tolerances to set out the boards managing the risks in their respective areas.
They are required to maintain, desired risk-taking approach to the achievement of our strategic objectives, review and regularly update a risk register to assist in this process.
in the context of managing our principal risks.
Our risk tolerance is an expression of the types and amount of risk we are willing to take or accept Risk management process to achieve our plan, and enables us to better determine the mitigating activities Classification of risks follows a standard methodology used in risk management required to manage our principal risks to within acceptable risk levels.
and takes into account the likelihood of their occurrence and the scale of potential impact both financial and reputational on the business.
Whilst the nature of our principal risks have remained largely unchanged during the year, we have disaggregated one key risk relating to data security and cyber Once the key economic, operational, financial, people and strategic risks have risks to provide greater focus and clarity, reflecting the increasing importance been identified, each business unit and functional area is then responsible for of ensuring compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation, which evaluating current controls in place to manage their risks, drawing up plans came into force on 25 May 2018.
Many of the risks have increased during the to improve controls and managing new risks as and when they arise.
Each key year, largely as a result of external factors, although the board has noted the risk has an action owner to ensure that responsibilities are formally aligned.
additional steps being taken to monitor and mitigate against these external To ensure continuous improvement across the business, progress of these risk factors.
One such external factor is outcome of the Brexit negotiations with the implementation plans is monitored by senior management on a regular basis.
EU, which has been specifically considered bythe board.
Whilst Brexit related risks are not included in the list of the groups principal risks, Brexit does pose Further, a group-wide risk committee reviews the individual risk registers a number of risks to our business, including heightened macro-economic in detail, monitors the risk mitigation plans and assists in the production of uncertainty, and more specifically at a recruitment level, and these have the group risk register, whereby risk registers are aggregated and considered been reflected in the detail of the relevant risks already facing the business.
on a top-down basis in the context of delivering our strategy for the group.
Details of our broad risk tolerance in relation to each of our key risks Given that some risks are external and not fully within our control, the isset out in the table starting on page 33. risk management processes are designed to manage risks which may have a material impact on our business, rather than to fully mitigate all risks.
Audit and risk committee The audit and risk committee, which has delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the groups risk management processes, regularly reviews the risk management processes for each business unit and functional area, on a rotational basis, reviewing presentations from relevant management and challenging their analyses.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance expected inflationary cost pressures, andestate development and disposal Code, the board is required to assess the prospects of the company over opportunities.
The plan considers cash flows and compliance with the an appropriate period of time selected by them.
financial covenants contained within the groups revolving credit facility and structured finance vehicles.
The board concluded that for these purposes the three-year period to theend of the 2020 21 financial year was appropriate as it is consistent As detailed above the board has conducted a robust assessment of with the groups strategic planning horizon and provides the longer-term theprincipal risks facing the company.
This included consideration of view of the groups viability required by the Code.
The board also considers it strategic risks, economic and market risks, operational and people risks to be a reasonable period over which the groups key risks can be assessed, and financial risks.
The resilience of the group to the impact of these risks given the fast-moving nature of the market in which it operates and has been assessed by applying significant but plausible sensitivities to the whereit can be difficult to predict the future impact of political cash flow projections based on past experience.
This included modelling andeconomic uncertainties.
the effect of reduced consumer confidence and therefore spending, the failure of the groups business to maintain and develop compelling customer Long-term financing is provided by the groups securitisation and debenture offers, food safety issues, lower than anticipated acquisition synergies and vehicles, which have remaining weighted average lives of ten years and nine the impact of increased regulation across the business.
The group also has available 750m under revolving credit facilities, of which 400m, which expires in October 2021, is available Taking account of the companys current position, principal risks and to provide liquidity and to manage its seasonal cash flows.
The remaining thesensitivity analysis discussed above, as well as the potential mitigating 350m, which expires in November 2020, is available to fund the internal actions that the company can take, and the experience that the company has transfer of pubs from the debenture vehicle, improving the groups ability in adapting the business tochange, the board has a reasonable expectation to refinance its Spirit secured loan notes andrelated interest rate swaps.
that the company will be able to continue to in operation and meet its liabilities asthey fall due over the three-year period of assessment.
The groups latest three-year plan the plan, covering the period to the end of the 2020 21financial year, was approved by the board in February 2018.
The plan isprepared by consolidating each business segments own plan and overlaying group assumptions in respect of estate optimisation and capital structure.
Key assumptions underpinning the plan and the associated cash flow forecasts are the economic outlook, revenue growth expectations, 32 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC RISKS Principal risks and uncertainties This section highlights some of the key risks Business strategy Customer offer and uncertainties which affect Greene King.
The group is of course exposed to risks wider than those listed, but these are believed to be likely to have the greatest impact on our LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES business at this moment in time.
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 5 SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Failure to adopt the right strategy for the group Failure to deliver an appealing customer offer, 1 Build brands that customers admire or poor execution of the groups strategy could toidentify and respond to fast-changing consumer 2 Provide offers that deliver lead to reduced revenue and profitability and tastes and habits including the use of digital compellingvalue, service and quality lower growth rates than our strategic objectives.
media, to respond to increased competition, toprice products appropriately and to align the 3 Develop people who portfolio to the market could all lead to reduced exceedexpectations revenue and profitability and lower market 4 Maintain a well-located share and growth rates than anticipated.
It is andinvestedestate unclear how consumers will respond to the 5 Manage our finances prudently outcome ofthe Brexit negotiations.
MITIGATION MITIGATION Our strategy is focused on building brands that We will focus on our four main brands going customers admire, creating offers that deliver forward, as explained elsewhere in this report, compelling value, service and quality, developing although we retain the ability to tailor a pubs people who exceed expectations, maintaining a offer to its local customer requirements.
We well-located and invested estate and managing use guest satisfaction tools, TripAdvisor scores our finances prudently.
Overall strategy is and net promoter scores to collect customer determined by the board at an annual two-day feedback and measure performance of our pubs.
strategy meeting, and progress against strategic Competitor activity is monitored at both a strategic plans is reviewed regularly by the board and the and tactical level and each brand has its own operating board, which is tasked with the execution pricing strategy, while discounts and promotions of the plans on a day-to-day basis.
There is regular are carefully targeted.
The success of the 10m review of the execution of strategic plans by we invested this year in the customer offer continues management in operating board meetings and at to be monitored.
Food and drink quality remain other relevant meetings, with a particular focus a high priority, as does a focus on team training on our Pub Company business.
RISK TOLERANCE RISK TOLERANCE We are comfortable managing risks which With our vision to be the best pub and beer weunderstand and areconsistent with the company inthe UK we expect to be able to delivery of our strategicobjectives.
react swiftly and appropriately to changing consumer trends to maintain earnings and theachievement of our strategic objectives.
Our strategy page 16 CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR Audit and risk committee report page 55 Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 33 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties continued ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKS OPERATIONAL AND PEOPLE RISKS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 Build brands that customers admire Economic uncertainty GDPR compliance Cyber IT security Recruitment, retention and Suppliers, distributors and our 2 Provide offers that deliver andcostpressures development of employees ownproduction facilities compellingvalue, service and quality andlicensees 3 Develop people who exceedexpectations LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 4 Maintain a well-located 1 2 3 4 1 3 5 1 3 5 1 2 3 1 2 andinvestedestate 5 Manage our finances prudently SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS We are at risk of a weakening economy and The implementation of the General Data A significant cyber security breach or other If we are unable to recruit, develop and retain We are reliant on a number of key suppliers softer consumer confidence in the UK, which Protection Regulation in the UK has highlighted lossof data could impact the company financially key employees it may be more difficult to execute andthird party distributors to supply goods may become more volatile as Brexit looms.
the need to ensure that all our data processing or our ability to do business, impacting both our business plans and strategy, impacting our toour pubs and on our own ability to produce, Wealso continue to face significant cost activities are compliant with the new legislation revenue and profitability as well as potentially revenue and profitability.
The impact of Brexit package and distribute our own beers.
Short-term headwinds, including the National Living Wage, and that we have the technical and operational compromising employee, customer and supplier negotiations is yet to be fully understood.
For supply disruption could impact customer the Apprenticeship Levy, the sugar tax and systems in place to secure the data we hold.
Deliberate acts of cyber crime are on the our Pub Partners division we face similar issues satisfaction and lead to loss of revenue whilst the utilities taxes, which could all lead to reduced Asignificant personal data breach could impact increase, targeting all markets and heightening with regard to licensees.
long-term failure or withdrawal of key suppliers revenue, profitability and lower growth rates.
our ability to do business, impacting both risk exposure.
or distributors could also lead to increased InPub Partners any difficulties our tenants are revenue and profitability.
In addition the risk of costs.
If we were unable to brew, package and facing, such as cost revenue pressure and the reputational damage and financial damage from distribute our own beers for long periods we availability of finance to fund investment, fines or compensation has increased.
could suffer loss of revenue and profitability.
MITIGATION MITIGATION MITIGATION MITIGATION MITIGATION We have a relentless focus on value, service and A GDPR implementation team, under We constantly monitor cyber threats to We have both a branded recruitment plan to We maintain back-up plans in case of the failure quality and are continuing to invest in our pubs.
thesponsorship of senior management, has ourbusiness and have a programme of works ensure that we attract suitable candidates and by or loss of a key supplier, and we expect our Plans have been developed to mitigate many implemented a range of policy, procedural, tocounter ongoing cyber threats.
Our cyber operate a range of apprenticeship programmes.
key suppliers to maintain disaster recovery plans ofthe anticipated cost increases facing the andcompliance control improvements across programme focuses on a continuous evaluation More effective recruitment processes have been which we review on a regular basis.
Regular business, including changes to the management the business, covering all aspects of the new of threat and a programme of strengthening put in place for key roles in our pubs and we have monitoring is undertaken of KPIs applicable to structure to increase our competitiveness and requirements, and activities will continue to controls to mitigate the evolving threats such improved induction training to improve retention both third party suppliers and distributors, with agility.
We have a broad geographic spread of improve the management of these risks, led by asransomware, IT security controls, threat in the early few months.
We spent over 3m in issues flagged for resolution.
In the event of a pubs across the country, including in London our data governance committee, data protection surveillance, patching, retirement of legacy the year on training and development, and have failure in our own production and distribution and the South East.
officer and data protection champions across systems and user education to ensure our rolled out a company-wide training platform to activities a range of alternative solutions exist the business.
Staff training has been introduced defences are strong and evolve as necessary.
Career development plans are in toenable us to continue to brew, package for all employees and further specialist follow-up Disaster recovery plans for our critical applications place to retain key employees, whilst remuneration anddistribute our own beers.
training will be provided to employees whose have been successfully tested, and the architecture packages are benchmarked to ensure that they roles involve significant processing of personal data.
is constantly being updated and tested to improve remain competitive.
We plan to improve retention Solutions are being implemented for a number the scale of speed of recovery of our IT systems.
through greater engagement with our staff of issues identified during the implementation through digital HR and through our ongoing programme.
There will be an ongoing programme focus on the Winning Ways values programme.
to monitor data processing activities and ensure Key leaver reasons are monitored so that compliance going forward.
specific issues can be dealt with, and our annual employee engagement survey is used to obtain direct feedback from employees on a range of issues.
Managers are tasked with developing action plans to deal with the feedback received.
For our tenanted pub business we have a range of tenancy agreements, training programmes and support available to attract and retain thebest quality licensees.
RISK TOLERANCE RISK TOLERANCE RISK TOLERANCE RISK TOLERANCE RISK TOLERANCE We acknowledge and recognise that in the normal We have a low tolerance for significant breaches We have a low tolerance for significant breaches The nature of the sector in which we operate We recognise that we carry an inherent risk in course of business, the group is exposed to risk of GDPR.
ispredisposed to high employee turnover levels, relation to both our own production facilities and we are willing to accept a level of risk in order but we have a low tolerance for levels which and third party suppliers but we seek to minimise to achieve our strategic priorities and will manage exceed the sector average, and we expect our this risk through management and control.
staff to have the appropriate skills to deliver the functions of the business.
CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR NEW 34 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL AND PEOPLE RISKS Economic uncertainty GDPR compliance Cyber IT security Recruitment, retention and Suppliers, distributors and our andcostpressures development of employees ownproduction facilities andlicensees LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 2 3 4 1 3 5 1 3 5 1 2 3 1 2 SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS We are at risk of a weakening economy and The implementation of the General Data A significant cyber security breach or other If we are unable to recruit, develop and retain We are reliant on a number of key suppliers softer consumer confidence in the UK, which Protection Regulation in the UK has highlighted lossof data could impact the company financially key employees it may be more difficult to execute andthird party distributors to supply goods may become more volatile as Brexit looms.
CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR NEW Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 35 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties continued OPERATIONAL AND PEOPLE RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 Build brands that customers admire Compliance with a range of legislation Funding requirements Covenant risks Pension scheme funding 2 Provide offers that deliver including health and safety, food compellingvalue, service and quality safety and employment legislation 3 Develop people who exceedexpectations LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 4 Maintain a well-located 1 2 3 4 1 4 5 1 4 5 5 andinvestedestate 5 Manage our finances prudently SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS If we fail to comply with major health and safety If we are unable to meet the funding If we are unable to meet the covenant Any inability to meet the funding requirements legislation and cause serious injury or loss of life requirements of the group we risk reduced requirements of the groups debenture, of our defined benefit pension schemes, which are to one of our customers, employees or tenants, revenue and lower profitability than our securitisation and other financing arrangements, subject to the risk of changes in life expectancy, this could have a significant impact on our strategic plan.
our ability to pay dividends or reinvest cash actual and expected price inflation and investment reputation, leading to financial loss.
If there is could be affected, which in turn would damage yields, could impact our balance sheet, whilst anissue in our food supply chain, including the our reputation and ongoing creditworthiness.
the volatility of the deficit makes longer-term provision of incorrect allergen information, that planning more difficult.
leads to serious illness or loss of life to one of our customers this could lead to restrictions in supply, potential increases in the cost of goods and reduced sales.
Failure to comply with employment related legislation such as those relating to the National Minimum Wage and right to work could lead to HMRC fines andadditional expense.
MITIGATION MITIGATION MITIGATION MITIGATION We have a comprehensive range of formally The groups debt structures and financing Long-term strategy and business plans are All our final salary schemes are closed to future documented policies and procedures in place, requirements are reviewed by the board, which formulated to ensure that headroom against accrual to reduce volatility.
Liability management including centrally managed systems of compliance ensures that the capital structure plan continues financial covenants is maintained at a prudent programmes are in place and there is an ongoing KPI tracking and internal and independent audits to support the requirements of the strategic level.
Forward-looking covenant headroom dialogues with the trustees regarding funding to ensure compliance with current legislation three-year plan.
The group has a 400m revolving isreviewed by the board on an ongoing basis.
There is regular monitoring of and approved guidance.
Our health and safety credit facility for general corporate purposes Working capital performance is regularly theschemes investments and plans are in place policies have been reviewed by our primary outside the securitisation and debenture vehicles, reviewed and closely managed by the finance to fide-risk the investment strategy of the authority partner, Reading Borough Council, which expires in 2021.
The refinancing model closely tracks GreeneKing pension scheme.
which has rated our safety management system, signed a new three-year revolving credit facility future covenant headroom across all debt which includes training for all relevant staff, as very for 350m to finance the purchase of pubs from platforms through all transactions considered.
We have also established a link between the Spirit debenture to refinance the debenture environmental health Scores on the Doors and debt.
In December 2017 we prepaid the Spirit remuneration incentives for relevant employees, debenture A1, A6 and A7 bonds, eliminating cash and we have introduced procedures to improve sweep and margin step-up in the debenture.
in-pub support at times of change of general manager.
In our tenanted estate we have a detailed compliance programme to ensure that pubs are safely handed over to new tenants and we provide technical support and audit to our key tenanted food businesses and those with the poorest hygiene ratings.
In relation to our food supply chain we require all suppliers to have BRC or SALSA accreditation as a minimum and we risk rate suppliers on an annual basis to determine audit type and frequency.
Regular meetings are held with key suppliers to review issues and follow up on any corrective actions required.
We have systems designed to ensure compliance with right to work and National Minimum Wagelegislation.
RISK TOLERANCE RISK TOLERANCE RISK TOLERANCE RISK TOLERANCE We have no tolerance for health and safety or We expect the group to be able to access We expect to be able to meet all our payment We expect to maintain funding levels for food safety breaches within our operations.
suitable financial facilities to meet the ongoing obligations and have adequate headroom against ourpension schemes at manageable levels.
requirements of the business and our our covenant levels under a range of cautious longer-term strategic objectives.
CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR 36 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL RISKS Compliance with a range of legislation Funding requirements Covenant risks Pension scheme funding including health and safety, food safety and employment legislation LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LINKS TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 2 3 4 1 4 5 1 4 5 5 SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS If we fail to comply with major health and safety If we are unable to meet the funding If we are unable to meet the covenant Any inability to meet the funding requirements legislation and cause serious injury or loss of life requirements of the group we risk reduced requirements of the groups debenture, of our defined benefit pension schemes, which are to one of our customers, employees or tenants, revenue and lower profitability than our securitisation and other financing arrangements, subject to the risk of changes in life expectancy, this could have a significant impact on our strategic plan.
CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR CHANGE SINCE LAST YEAR Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 37
