Principal risks and uncertainties Links to Description Key mitigations Change strategy Our business change programme continues, requiring restructuring and capital investment.
We phase our change activity to avoid affecting the Company as a whole wherever possible.
Timelines and Business transformation No change forecasts are clearly defined and agreed.
Progress against these is closely monitored and reported on a regular Expected timelines or savings may not be met, and there may be disruption to our customers.
basis to our Operating Board.
As we continue to move towards more centralised production, any interruption to production All of our supply sites have contingency plans in place.
We simulate scenarios and test our recovery processes Loss of Increase may have a significant impact on availability of product for our customers.
We have identified alternative supply sources for key ingredients and products, and periodically test production these alternative routes.
Our property insurers conduct annual site inspections, helping us to protect our facilities.
We also believe that to an extent customers will choose an alternative product if their first choice is not available.
We are creating larger distribution Centres of Excellence with a greater reliance on technology.
We work closely with our property insurers in our building design, to ensure an appropriate level of protection.
Loss of distribution New This increases the impact of any operational failure on our ability to deliver to our shops.
As with our production sites, annual inspections are carried out by our insurers.
capability We are refreshing our site-based contingency plans to ensure that they remain relevant for dedicated distribution centres.
Our IT disaster recovery plans are being updated as part of a review of our approach to cyber risk.
As our reliance on third parties for services, ingredients or business support increases, we become Our own contingency arrangements consider the implications of key systems or ingredients being unavailable.
Management of No change more exposed to their business interruption risks.
This could impact on our ability to produce, All third parties are vetted prior to us engaging with them.
Key supplier relationships are managed by our central third party relationships distribute or sell our products.
Market forces and particularly the impact of Brexit may result in a shortage of available workforce.
This We offer attractive remuneration and benefit packages to reward our teams, along with training and development Ability to attract retain No change may be compounded by the relative complexity of our shop operations compared with other retailers.
We carry out an annual opinion survey which confirms high levels of employee engagement.
motivate people We are continually striving to streamline and simplify our shop processes and operations for our teams.
As part of our business change programme, we have invested in improved recruitment processes, making the application journey easier for a potential employee.
Links to Description Key mitigations Change strategy Due to our  structure, and the fact that we freshly prepare food every day Procedures are in place throughout our supply sites and shops to ensure that food safety is maintained.
Product quality and safety Increase in our shops, we may have a greater exposure to food safety risk than many of our competitors.
Compliance is monitored both internally and by regulators.
We are working with industry bodies to help to shape new allergen controls and regulations.
We may suffer a loss of trade due to customer confidence being impacted by an external food scare Most of the products on sale in our shops are made by our staff in our bakeries.
Routine checks are carried out Food scare No change beyond our control.
to confirm the integrity of our products and ingredients.
We have robust procedures in place to execute product withdrawals quickly should the need arise.
As customers become more concerned about nutrition and health, demand for the more indulgent We continue to work on improving the nutrition of our traditional products, including a commitment to reduce Consumer trends No change products in our range may reduce.
sugar and fat in line with Public Health Englands guidance.
Our Balanced Choice range provides a number of healthier options, and we continue to develop new lines catering for emerging dietary choices.
Links to Description Key mitigations Change strategy As with all businesses, our data and systems are exposed to external threats such as hackers or viruses.
We actively monitor our networks and systems, including conducting regular penetration testing.
Cyber and data security No change These could lead to data breaches, or disruption to our operation.
Our approach to information security is closely monitored by the Board.
Our IT systems may have insufficient capacity to keep pace with the required rate of change.
Greater Our development plans take into account the business vision, to ensure appropriate future-proofing.
System capacity New system integration and interconnectivity results in an increased impact in the event of any process failure We work closely with partners to provide additional capacity and technical expertise when required.
plans continue to evolve in response to system and process changes.
Links to Description Key mitigations Change strategy New legislation may necessitate additional processes, such as allergen controls in our shops.
We are working closely with industry bodies in responding to Government proposals on the communication of Increased legislation New allergen content in food.
We are continuing to work on our plans to meet the Governments sugar and calorie Continued growing concern over the environment and health may drive the introduction of additional and taxation reduction targets.
In order to reduce our impact on the environment, we are trialling coffee cup recycling, conducting a plastic-free trial in our shops, and continuing to reduce our carbon intensity.
Large financial penalties could be imposed on the business for breaches of Food Safety or Health & We have a system of controls and monitors in place, and our teams are provided with extensive training on Significant fines No change Safety legislation.
Due to the number of stores we operate, and the volume of customer transactions safe processes and procedures.
Our audit processes confirm whether proper procedures are being followed.
for non-compliance we handle on a daily basis, we may be exposed to isolated incidents which fall below our expected We are in the process of setting up a Primary Authority arrangement with Newcastle City Council for Food Safety, with legislation standards and may expose us to prosecution.
which will mirror that already in place for Health & Safety, and fire safety.
There is continued uncertainty regarding changes to trading arrangements, customs agreements, tariffs etc.
Developments continue to be monitored, with regular review by our Operating Board.
Impact of Brexit Increase post Brexit.
This may give rise to increased costs and inflationary pressures, with a resultant risk of recession.
Purchasing contracts give price stability in the short to medium term.
Any currency devaluation would cause the costs of imported goods to increase.
Contingency arrangements have been developed where possible.
Short-term border disruption could impact on our ability to import salad ingredients.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 38 Regulatory compliance Technology Brand reputation Organisational capacity Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Great tasting, freshly Best customer Competitive First class prepared food experience supply chain support teams Links to Description Key mitigations Change strategy Our business change programme continues, requiring restructuring and capital investment.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Regulatory compliance Technology Brand reputation Organisational capacity
