Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Risk management The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that risks are managed appropriately The responsibilities of key participants within the Our risk management approach risk management process are summarised below: We have well-established risk management processes embedded within the business, which enable us to identify, Board of Directors Audit Committee evaluate, record and monitor significant risks.
Taking an Ultimate responsibility for ensuring risks are appropriate level of risk is an inherent part of any business, managed appropriately: but in doing so we assess the likelihood and impact of each full annual review of the risk management process: risk arising.
regular consideration of key strategic risks and new and emerging risks: and The diagram below sets out our approach and shows the robust annual assessment of principal risks as various information flows.
set out on the following page.
Risk Committee Operating Board Business Assurance Function Quarterly detailed discussion of significant risks: understanding the business exposure to risk: supporting the implementation of the Companys Key Other New & Insured Functional Project risk management strategy: and strategic strategic emerging risks risks risks risks risks risks escalating significant matters to Main Board, via the Audit Committee.
Risk Manager Risk Manager Maintaining the corporate risk register: supporting the Risk Committee to operate effectively: and ensuring adequate insurance is in place, as determined by the Main Board.
Risk Committee Operating Board Business Assurance function Providing independent internal audit coverage of the business, reporting findings to Audit Committee: Main Board Audit Committee oversight of the risk process: and support to the whistleblowing process, which allows staff to raise matters of concern.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Risk management continued In this years statement, we have separately stated the risks Principal risks and uncertainties of business change relating to our transformation programme The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the and our IT systems implementation.
This is due to the fact principal risks facing the Company, including those that would that the two risks diverge in their nature and mitigations threaten its business model, future performance, solvency as the transformation agenda nears completion.
also specifically described a broader risk of increased legislation, which previously focused on the financial Where appropriate, the impact of these risks occurring has impact of non-compliance.
been considered when developing the scenarios tested as part of the financial viability statement as set out on page 37.
Previously disclosed risks relating to the wider economy and our response to competitor activity have been removed, Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to since we have robust routine management processes in place management or deemed less material currently, may also have to control these issues and we are able to flex our business an adverse effect on the business.
Further, the exposure to model as required.
each risk will evolve as we take mitigating actions, or as new risks emerge.
The risks set out below provide a summary The risks are grouped according to their overriding theme, of the position at the date of the annual report.
and are described along with the strategic pillars to which they are linked, and the movement in net risk during the year.
Great tasting, freshly Best customer Competitive First class prepared food service supply chain support teams Business transformation Loss of production Loss of distribution capability Management of third-party relationships Ability to attract retain motivate people Product quality and safety Product quality and safety Food scare Food scare Consumer trends Cyber and data security System capacity Increased legislation and taxation Significant fines for non-compliance with legislation Impact of Brexit Key Strategic risk Operational risk Compliance risk Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 36 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts In order to stress-test the Companys financial resilience, Viability statement scenarios were created to simulate the impact arising from The Directors have assessed the Companys prospects and the occurrence of the following principal risks: viability taking into account its current position, plans and 1.
A brand-damaging food scare resulting in a significant principal risks.
The Company remains cash-generative and one-year sales reduction followed by gradual recovery has no debt other than normal trading liabilities to creditors of confidence.
In making assumptions the Directors and the obligations arising under commercial leases.
considered real examples of companies in the food In assessing the Companys prospects the Board has sector that had experienced such issues.
taken into account the following: 2.
The impact of a ten per cent annual sales decline as a The Companys strong financial position and cashresult of changing shopping habits or consumer trends.
Temporary loss of production capacity for the Companys The continued growth of out-of-home eating and the iconic pastry savoury products and the consequences alignment of the Companys offer to this growing market.
for liquidity as capacity is restored.
The potential for further growth in existing markets 4.
The possible impact of Britain leaving the EU without and investment plans to support this.
a trading agreement, assuming the imposition of tariffs The maintenance of a competitive, differentiated on imports, disruption to the flow of goods into the UK offer to customers.
Controls over, and mitigations to, the occurrence of principal risks and uncertainties.
Scenario four above was applied as an additional layer of risk, in order to test how the impact of Britain leaving the EU without In assessing the Companys viability the Board has considered a trading agreement would affect the Companys viability potential scenarios that have been envisaged to reflect the in the other scenarios.
occurrence of the principal risks that the business faces.
These include threats to its operations and the supply of products, In each case the Directors reviewed the mitigating actions such as a loss of production capacity, and the occurrence that would be necessary to protect the Companys liquidity.
of risks affecting confidence in the Greggs brand.
These included: Temporary suspension of dividend payments in order to In carrying out its assessment the Board has reviewed the preserve cash for operational use, including the restoration three-year operational and financial plans to 2021.
This is the of customer confidence in the Greggs brand.
period over which the Board reviews managements business Restriction of capital investment to cover only essential planning and sets performance targets, and therefore the Board maintenance of infrastructure, taking into account capital believes that this is the most appropriate timeframe over which commitments to major investment programmes.
to make the viability assessment.
Addition of temporary financing facilities, taking into account the Companys borrowing capacity.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the Drawing on the Companys insurance arrangements on the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would occurrence of an insured risk.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The scenarios tested represent more extreme circumstances than the Company has ever experienced.
Based on the results The principal risks to which the Company is exposed ultimately of the analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation affect the ability of its shops to trade successfully, either through that the Company will be able to continue in operation and an interruption to supply or because of a loss of confidence in meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period the Greggs brand.
A significant loss of sales would be particularly of their detailed assessment.
damaging given the Companys vertical integration in that the cost of the internal supply chain cannot be reduced quickly.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37
