PRINCIPAL RISKS 57 RISK GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITIES THE BOARD Overall responsibility for risk management as an integral part of strategic planning.
Formal review of risks twice yearly.
Setting clear policies on acceptable levels of risk.
Bi-annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal ControlsSystem.
AUDIT COMMITTEE RISK COMMITTEE Responsible for assessing the scope and Constitutes Group and divisional executives effectiveness of the systems established to and senior managers.
identify, assess, manage and monitor risks.
Responsible for maintaining the PLC risk Reviews reports from Internal Audit and SENIOR EXECUTIVES register including periodic monitoring of the external audit KPMG.
mitigating actions as well as the likelihood and consequence of each risk.
Executive Directors and senior executives Internal audit function has an annual audit identify key risks and make recommendations programme that addresses most of the Meets four times a year.
on the overall approach to risk management.
principal risks as well as other operational Business units report into the Risk Committee.
and business risks which include periodic Reviews overall assessment of likely risks.
Responsible for enforcing risk management as an integral part of the Groups internal control, planning and approval process.
Each key risk is assigned Executive Committee member ownership.
58 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk management process and methodology How risks are measured The effective understanding, acceptance and management of risk are As part of the risk management process, risks identied are measured fundamental to the strategy of the Group.
Over the course of the year, against a dened set of criteria, in particular: the Group has looked to improve its risk management capabilities and The potential impact to the Group should the risk materialise: enhance its ability to identify, evaluate and monitor principal risks.
The impact of each risk is measured with reference to the financial We have adopted an integrated and proactive approach to our implications EBITDA and cash, its potential operational impact, the risk management and responsibilities, and we continue to seek effect on the reputation of our brands and whether or not it affects improvement in our ability to detect, understand and debate our our commitment to health and safety.
The impact is measured on risk.
An initial version of an Enterprise Risk Management ERM ascale, where 1 is low, with limited damage to a minor stakeholder, Framework has been established for the newly formed Group, which and 5 being severe, which may have a substantial impact on the includes an assessment of the Groups tolerance to risk.
Over the Group affecting many key stakeholders.
course of the coming year we will look to further enhance this framework and develop our assessment of the Groups risk appetite.
The likelihood of the risk materialising: The ERM Framework is the vehicle which defines and delivers risk The extent to which an event is likely to occur is scored from management across the business and includes a risk scoring matrix 1-5,1being remote i. e. very unlikely to occur and 5 being probable to ensure a consistent approach and risk indicators which help to i. e. where it has the potential to occur or has already happened.
The product of both scores gives rise to the risk score that determines The Risk Committee considers identied risks to the business but the relative importance of the individual risk.
focuses on the principal risks.
For each risk identied within the impact areas the likelihood, Principal risks consequence, risk owner Executive Committee member and The principal risks and uncertainties, which are considered to operational lead are identied by the Risk Committee.
have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance and The risk owner and operational lead suggest the appropriate mitigating achievement of strategy, are set out on the table below.
The risks control and actions which are reviewed for appropriateness and represent a snapshot at this point in time, and as the environment we monitored regularly by the Risk Committee.
operate in is constantly evolving, new risks may arise, the potential impact of known risks may increase or decrease, and our assessment Throughout the year the risk management approach will be subject to of a risk may change.
They do not include all those risks associated continuous review and updated to reect new and developing issues with Groups activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
which might impact business strategy.
This isnot intended to be an exhaustive and extensive analysis Emerging or topical risks are examined to understand the signicance ofallrisks which may affect the Group.
Risks are identied and monitored through risk registers at the Group level and within key business units, ensuring both a top down and bottom up approach.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 59 KEY: Risk increased Risk decreased Risk static New risk RISK 1: RISK 2: RISK 3: DATA BREACH TECHNOLOGY FAILURE TAXES, LAWS, REGULATIONS, ANDCYBERSECURITY LICENSING AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Risk category: Risk category: Risk category: Technology Technology Commercial Legal and regulatory Legal and regulatory Reputational Reputational Reputational Legal and regulatory Financial Financial Financial Principal risk uncertainty Principal risk uncertainty Principal risk uncertainty The Group processes sensitive personal customer The Groups operations are highly dependent on Regulatory, legislative and scal regimes for betting data including name, address, age, bank details technology and advanced information systems and gaming in key markets around the world can and betting and gaming history as part of its and there is a risk that such technology or systems change, sometimes at short notice.
Such changes business and therefore must comply with strict data could fail.
In particular, any damage to, or failure of could benefit or have an adverse effect on the protection and privacy laws in all jurisdictions in online systems and servers, electronic point of sale Group and additional costs might be incurred in which the Group operates.
The Group is exposed to systems and electronic display systems could result order to comply with any new laws or regulations in the risk that this data could be wrongfully obtained in interruptions to financial controls and customer multiple jurisdictions.
through either a cyber-attack or a breach in data service systems.
How we manage andmitigatetherisk security.
This could result in prosecutions including How we manage andmitigatetherisk financial penalties and the loss of the goodwill of The Group closely monitors regulatory, legislative its customers.
The Groups technology resilience levels continue and scal developments in key markets allowing the to mature across all sites and various platforms, Group to assess, adapt and takes the necessary How we manage andmitigatetherisk through lessons learnt from testing procedures and action where appropriate.
The Group dedicates significant resources to ensure or service outages.
Service reliability improvement is Management take external advice, which security arrangements and systems are up to date to a key driver across the Groups product offering and incorporates risk evaluation of individual territories.
Sophisticated hardware forms a fundamental facet of the Groups technology It also engages in promoting licensing solutions that and security mechanisms are used to ensure all integration objectives for 2019. provide commercially viable opportunities for online sensitive and condential data is fully encrypted.
Strategic relevance GVC is committed to maintain its ISO 27001:2013 significant technology failings or product outage Regulatory updates are provided on a weekly basis Information Security Management System is likely to impact the Groups ability to attract and to senior management with updates provided to the certication and during the year, harmonised security retain the customers required to deliver the Groups Board of Directors at every board meeting.
policies across the wider Group.
Moving forward, the growth strategy.
ISO standard will be evaluated across the enlarged Strategic relevance Group and applied where deemed relevant.
Whilst changing regulatory and tax regimes offer A Data Privacy team, led by the Groups Chief opportunities to the Group as well as posing risks, Privacy officer, was established during the year, a significant adverse change in jurisdictions in tasked with aligning the enlarged Groups data which the Group operates could have a significant privacy strategy and governance structure, providing impact on the Groups future profitability and regular updates to the Groups Corporate Social cash generation.
Strategic relevance Crystallisation could lead to significant reputational and operational issues that limit the Groups ability to drive Online growth and deliver technology synergies.
60 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED KEY: Risk increased Risk decreased Risk static New risk RISK 4: RISK 5: RISK 6: IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL INCREASED COST TRADING, LIABILITY GAMING OR OTHER INDIRECT OF PRODUCT MANAGEMENT AND PRICING TAXES Risk category: Risk category: Risk category: Commercial Commercial Commercial Legal and regulatory Financial Operational Financial Strategic Principal risk uncertainty Principal risk uncertainty Principal risk uncertainty Revenues earned from customers located in a The Group is subject to certain arrangements The Group may experience significant losses as particular jurisdiction may give rise to further taxes intended to support industries in which it operates.
a result of a failure to determine accurately the odds in that jurisdiction.
If additional taxes are levied, this Examples are the horseracing and the voluntary in relation to any particular event and or any failure may have a material adverse effect on the amount greyhound racing levies, which respectively support of its sports risk management processes.
of tax payable by the Group.
the British horseracing and greyhound industries.
How we manage andmitigatetherisk In addition, the Group enters into contracts for the Further taxes may include value added tax VAT distribution of television pictures, audio and other The Group has acquired some of the leading or other indirect taxes.
Group companies may be data that are broadcast across the various routes expertise in trading liability management and the subject to VAT or similar taxes on transactions, to market.
A number of these are under negotiation enlarged Groups trading team has developed the which have previously been treated as exempt.
skills and systems to be able to offer a wide range of betting opportunities.
How we manage andmitigatetherisk How we manage andmitigatetherisk The Groups tax strategy is approved annually by the Events are priced in order to achieve an average Senior management engages regularly with the Board of Directors.
Responsibility for the execution return to the bookmaker over a large number relevant trade associations and the principal bodies of the Groups tax strategy is managed by the Board.
of events and therefore, over the long term.
of sport and event industries with regard to sports The Groups gross win percentage has remained The Groups geographical diversity and the nature rights payments, including the statutory horse racing fairly constant.
Executive management monitor the of taxation surrounding our industry have resulted levy, animal welfare and other issues.
gross win margin on a daily basis in order to ensure in considerable complexity in our tax affairs.
In order the long-term target is achieved.
Strategic relevance to mitigate the risks that arise, the Group actively identies, evaluates, manages and monitors its Material increases in the cost of content may reduce Strategic relevance tax risks and the geographies in which it operates.
the Groups ability to deliver cost savings through the A run of customer favourable results as a result The Group has an appropriately qualied and integration program.
of the mismanagement of the trading book could resourced tax team to manage its tax affairs.
signicantly impact the groups in year profitability.
In addition, where there is significant uncertainty or complexity in relation to a tax risk, the Group may use the services of external, expert tax advisors.
Strategic relevance Short notice, adverse changes in the tax regimes in the territories in which the Group operates may impact our brand reputation and future profitability.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 61 RISK 7: RISK 8: RISK 9: HEALTH AND SAFETY LOSS OF KEY LOCATIONS SYNERGY DELIVERY FAILURE TO INTEGRATE Risk category: Risk category: Risk category: Operational Operational Operational Reputational Financial Principal risk uncertainty Principal risk uncertainty Principal risk uncertainty Failure to meet the requirements of the various Whilst the Group operates out of a number of Challenges or difficulties to realising synergies domestic and international rules and regulations geographical locations, there are a number of key operational integration from the Ladbrokes Coral could expose the company and individual sites which are critical to the day-to-day operations acquisition could potentially result in interruption employees and Directors to material civil of the Group, including our ofces in Central London, to business operations, loss of customers & staff criminal action with the associated financial and Gibraltar, Vienna, Hyderabad, Australia, Italy, Manilla and inuence the relationship with key suppliers.
Disruption in any of these The failure to achieve the cost synergies would locations could have an impact on operations.
have a material impact on the financial performance How we manage andmitigatetherisk of the Group.
How we manage andmitigatetherisk GVCs Retail and European business segments How we manage andmitigatetherisk have numerous policies and procedures in place.
Existing continuity plans and arrangements for Annual training and communication plans to all off-site data storage, alternative system availability Integration workstreams began during the course of staff within these segments, as well as specic and remote working for key operational colleagues 2018 and this remains a strategic focus of the Group communications to staff across the wider Group and senior management are subject to ongoing moving forward.
The Groups budgeting process continue to take place.
The Groups Corporate review following the recent acquisition of incorporates synergy delivery and the integration Social Responsibility Committee also oversee Ladbrokes Coral.
team capture and monitor progress across all aspects of Health, Safety, Security and these workstreams.
Strategic relevance Loss of a key location could impact the Groups Strategic relevance ability to offer product to its customers impacting Failure to achieve the Groups synergy operational Breaches in the Groups Health and Safety policies its ability to generate revenues.
integration targets could signicantly impact future could lead to significant reputational damage as well growth forecasts and the Groups strategy to deploy as raising issues in the Groups commitment to the the proprietary technology across all brands.
health and safety of its colleagues.
62 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED KEY: Risk increased Risk decreased Risk static New risk Long-term viability statement RISK 10: In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Corporate Governance Code, RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION the Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the GVC Holdings PLC Group over OF KEY EMPLOYEES a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
The Directors have concluded that three years was an appropriate period for assessment as this is aligned to the Groups strategic planning process and is considered to be the period for which reliable Risk category: estimates can be made for variations in both industry and customer dynamics, regulatory change, technological advancements and the economic backdrop in the Gambling industry.
Operational The objectives of the strategic planning process are to further develop the businesses understanding of the markets in which it operates, assess the risks and opportunities facing thebusiness and develop a Group-wide strategy and associated financial forecasts.
The Directors have utilised these strategic forecasts, the 2019 Board approved budget and the current financial position of the Group to assess the potential impact on viability of certain severe, but plausible, risk events arising which represent the crystallisation of the Groups Principal risk uncertainty principal risks and uncertainties as identied on pages 58 to 62 of this Annual Report.
Our people are our greatest asset.
We aim to be The financial impact of these risk events have been assessed both individually and in an employer of choice for talented and passionate combination and include: people and we need a high level of competence across the business to meet our objectives and The impact of a significant change in the Groups duty prole, including further changes respond to changing market needs.
inUKRGD, additional taxation in key geographies and changes to the Groups VAT status How we manage and mitigate the risk inthe UK Performance Management, Development, Reward significant changes in the regulatory environment including, gaming restrictions in key and Recognition systems and, as part of the markets and further focus on AML legislation in the UK by the Gambling Commission merger, we are aligning terms and conditions wherever appropriate.
Cyber security failings and major disruption in supplier customer contracts Implementation of best practice employment Downturn in trading due to a run of customer friendly results and a failure to adequately standards frameworks and enabling a rewarding integrate the two businesses and inclusive environment initiatives as part of our people plan underpin our responsible The Directors have performed reverse stress tests to assess the level of liquidity and covenant employer strategy.
headroom in the underlying forecasts as well as considering the potential impacts of Brexit informing their view on viability.
Strategic relevance A pre-requisite to achieving all of our strategic Based on the results of this analysis and the mitigating actions available to the business, the priorities is ensuring we have the right people with Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation the right skills, deployed within the right area of the and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year assessment period except in the event business.
Failing to recruit retain the best people of severe, improbable, combinations of its principal risks arising.
could signicantly impact the Group achieving all ofits strategic objectives.
The going concern statement is contained on page 56 of this Annual Report The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by the Company Secretary.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE 63 GOVERNANCE AT WORK The Board looks to encourage a culture of strong governance across the business, and continues to adopt the principles of good governance byadhering to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
TheBoard is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders forcreating andpreserving the long-termsuccess and performance of the business.
We will be reporting in compliance with the 2016 Corporate Governance Code, but where practical will align some content to recognise the new July 2018 code.
Chairmans Governance statement 64 Leadership experience across the board 66 Leadership corporate governance overview 68 Division of responsibility 71 Composition, succession and evaluation 72 Nominations Committee report 74 Audit Committee report 76 Directors Remuneration report 82 Independent Auditors report 103
