Strategic Report Risk management and internal controls Managing risk and taking advantage of opportunities Our approach Board and Executive Board are compared Our control framework We believe that great risk management with the bottom up risk picture to ensure Halmas business model is to provide involves people at all levels in the organisation appropriate alignment of risk and execution significant autonomy to operating companies, being empowered to manage risks and of risk appetite.
within the structure of a clear control take advantage of opportunities.
This framework ensures there is awareness culture allows management During the year, the updates from sufficient oversight and clear identification to make better commercial decisions management to the Board covered of all our of matters reserved for the Board.
The key and helpsto maximise the benefits of Principal Risks.
The Audit Committee, on elements of this framework include: ourdecentralised businessmodel.
behalf of the Board, obtains assurance that the risk management and internal control Monthly reporting by operating Our risk governance framework system is operating effectively throughout companies on performance, including The Board is responsible for determining the organisation and risks are being managed risks, with regular oversight by sector the nature and extent of the principal in line with the risk appetite set by the Board.
andgroup management risks it is willing to take to achieve its In addition to reports from management, the Clear accountabilities and delegation of strategic objectives.
During the year, Board and Audit Committee also receives authority throughout the organisation theBoard performed a robust assessment updates from Group Risk about how the risk Six monthly self-certifications by operating of the Principal Risks facing Halma and management process is operating across companies on required minimum controls also reviewed the risk appetite for each theorganisation.
for finance, legal and IT, including PrincipalRisk.
segregation of duties On behalf of the Board, the Nominations Independent six-monthly peer reviews of Each operating company or function within Committee ensures an optimum balance operating companies reported financial Halma identifies risks and opportunities ofskills, knowledge and experience required results by finance directors as part of their strategic reviews, assesses within the executive management team to Independent validation of controls how these are currently controlled and any deliver the strategy and effectively manage andcertifications by Internal Audit further actions required.
A similar exercise is risk, whilst the Remuneration Committee duringaudits performed at sector and group level to show ensures the right reward system to drive Existence of a whistleblowing hotline an overall bottom up picture of risk for the anappropriate culture of high performance which is available for all employees.
The Principal Risks identified by the withcommensurate control.
Risk Governance Framework Board Direction Nomination Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee Executive Board Sector Group Management Oversight Oversight Internal Audit Independent Assurance Financial control IT Compliance & whistleblowing Risk management Talent & communication Operating Companies Innovation Execution 1st line 2nd line 3rd line 52 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Our areas of focus during the year maximise its impact and effectiveness During the year we continued to within Halmas business model.
Audits of strengthen our risk and control framework.
operating companies include validation Developments included: of the updated expected minimum controls used for self-certification by Recruitment of a Chief Innovation .
and Digital Officer to help accelerate our approach to innovation and Changes to our Principal Risks assume responsibility for Group IT Following discussions at the Executive andCybersecurity.
Board and the plc Board, the other following A refreshed risk assessment process changes were made to our Principal Risks: which is timed to line up with the strategy development process for operating Changed Globalisation.
This ensures strategic to capture this risk within the other more objectives and risks are considered specific Principal Risks and also within atthesame time.
a newly created risk for Organic Growth An Internal Audit of our Cyber Principal which is a core part of our growth strategy.
Risk to provide assurance over controls Reclassified Pension deficit.
This risk in this critical area.
Opportunities is being well managed as a Group level identified to further improve control risk and we decided it was no longer havebeenimplemented.
necessary to track this as a Principal Risk.
Regular updates on Brexit and GDPR It will continue to be closely monitored.
compliance to the Board to monitor Added Financial Controls.
This is to readiness of our operating companies.
reflect the importance of having effective An update of the six-monthly internal core financial controls in our decentralised control self-certification process by business model.
companies and the required minimum Added Communications.
It is critical to finance, legal and IT controls stipulated.
communicate effectively with existing A review of the remit of Internal Audit and and new stakeholder groups with whom the assurance it provides over Halmas we want to engage and partner to ensure risk and control framework to seek to delivery of our Halma 4.0 growth strategy.
Despite the risk to businesses, the Cyber and provide regular training courses to Security Breaches Survey 2018 found that employees who have access to computers only 27% of UK companies have a formal this is currently over 3,500 people.
training is assessed by way of a test, and we also monitor employee vulnerability At Halma, we proactively manage risk with by sending out monthly phishing comprehensive cyber security policies in e-mailsimulations.
place, and expect all our employees to adopt this approach.
We also ensure that they have The benefits of raising awareness of cyber the skills and knowledge required to manage security are not just for the Halma group their cyber security effectively.
of companies, but also for our customers, partners and our employee community.
We use employee online training to raise cyber awareness across the global group This rises to CASE STUDY 43% Cyber 72% of UK businesses experienced acyber for large businesses security breach orattackin2017.
Security Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 53
