Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Owner Inken Braunschmidt 1.
Cyber Gross risk level Risk and impact High Loss of digital intellectual property data or ability to operate systems due to internal failure or external attack.
There is resulting loss of information or ability to continue operations, and therefore financial and reputational Change damage.
The increase in this risk reflects the growing threat from cyber crime around the world.
Increased How do we manage the risk?
Clear ownership of cyber risk, with Board level expertise.
IT function reports into Chief Innovation & Digital Officer.
Risk appetite Group IT Strategy and policies in place, which require use of VPN and e-mail filtering.
Minimum required IT Averse controls defined and strengthened during the year.
All companies certify compliance every 6 months.
Any gaps are tracked until addressed.
Growth enablers Finance & Risk Monthly cyber threat reporting in place across the Group.
Digital Growth Engines Regular online IT awareness training provided for all employees using computers.
Disaster recovery and back-up plans in place, required to be tested regularly.
Regular reviews by Group IT and Internal Audit.
Organic Growth Gross risk level Risk and impact High Failing to deliver desired organic growth, resulting in missed expected strategic growth targets and erosion ofshareholder value.
Change How do we manage the risk?
New risk Clear Group strategy to achieve our organic growth targets, supported by detailed operating Risk appetite company strategies.
Open Sector management ensure that the Group strategy is fulfilled through ongoing review and chairing of Growth enablers operatingcompanies.
They are critical in achieving the right balance between autonomy and adherence International Expansion totheoverall objectives of the Group.
Talent & Culture Regional hubs, for example in China and India, support local growth strategic initiatives for all operating companies.
Digital Growth Engines Culture of innovation and development of new opportunities.
Innovation Network Strategic Communications Regular monitoring of financial performance, at all levels, including at the Board.
Clarity of strategy and agile business model that allows us to take advantage of new growth opportunities astheyarise.
Making and Integrating Acquisitions Gross risk level Risk and impact High Missing our strategic growth target for acquisitions due to insufficient acquisitions being identified or poor duediligence or poor integration, resulting in erosion of shareholder value.
No change Acquisition of companies in our existing or adjacent markets.
Dedicated M&A Directors with Group Chief Executive, Finance Director and plc Board oversight andapproval Risk appetite ofall acquisitions.
Open Regular reporting of the acquisition pipeline to the Executive and plc Board.
Growth enablers Careful due diligence by experienced staff who bring in specialist expertise as required.
Talent & Culture Valuation model used for all acquisitions to ensure price paid is appropriate.
M&A Finance & Risk Integration checklist covering control and compliance areas used to ensure consistent high quality and efficientintegration into Halma.
54 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Gross risk Risk Appetite High High Seeking Medium Medium Open Low Low Cautious Averse Risk Owner Jennifer Ward 4.
Talent & Diversity Gross risk level Risk and impact Medium Not having the right talent and diversity at all levels of the organisation to deliver our strategy, resulting inreducedfinancial performance.
No change Comprehensive recruitment processes to recruit the best and brightest talent.
Development of talent and diversity across our operating companies, including through development Risk appetite programmes, to give us a competitive advantage and ensure that we have motivated leaders to deliver Open ourstrategy.
Growth enablers Succession planning to identify and develop future leaders.
Talent & Culture Graduate development programme.
Digital Growth Engines Ongoing focus to increase diversity of our employees at all levels worldwide.
Innovation Network Strategic Communications Risk Owner Inken Braunschmidt 5.
Innovation Gross risk level Risk and impact High Failing to innovate to create new high-quality products to meet customer needs, or failure to adequately protectintellectual property, resulting in a loss of market share and poor financial performance.
The increasing Change speed of innovation and potential for disruption has increased this risk.
Product development is devolved to the operating companies who are closest to the customer, with support Risk appetite andguidance provided by sector management.
Seeking New Chief Innovation & Digital Officer role added during the year to promote and accelerate innovation byourcompanies including building relationships with new start-ups.
Growth enablers Talent & Culture Active collaboration of ideas and best practices between operating companies.
Digital Growth Engines Head Office approval of all large R&D projects to ensure alignment with strategy.
Innovation Network Halma Innovation Awards reward and encourage innovation.
Strategic Communications Operating companies are encouraged to develop and protect intellectual property.
Competition Gross risk level Risk and impact Medium Failing to adapt to market and technological changes, either through organic or M&A activity, resulting in reducedfinancial performance.
Just as our innovation risk has increased, the threat of disruption from Change competitors has increased.
Focus on niche markets with high barriers to entry and seek to achieve strong market positions.
Risk appetite In line with our decentralised business model where we place our operational resources close to our Open customers, we empower operating companies to monitor and respond to changing market needs.
Growth enablers Regular company and sector board meetings which review markets, competition and product innovation.
International Expansion Ongoing discussions with customers and monitoring of market and technological changes to identify Talent & Culture newopportunities.
Digital Growth Innovation Network Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 55 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Owner Andrew Williams 7.
Economic and Geopolitical Uncertainty Gross risk level Risk and impact High Risk of decline in financial performance due to recession or geopolitical changes and its potential impact on the carrying value of goodwill.
Increased Diverse portfolio of companies across the four sectors, in multiple countries and in relatively non-cyclical specialised global niche markets helps to minimise the impact of any single event operating in one of our markets.
Risk appetite Regular monitoring and assessment of potential risks and opportunities relating to geopolitical or economic Cautious uncertainties such as Brexit or healthcare reform in the USA.
A Brexit Committee is in place to monitor developments and support operating companies.
Growth enablers International Expansion Identification of any wider trends by the Halma Executive Board that require action.
Finance & Risk Local operating companies have the autonomy to rapidly adjust to changing circumstances.
Talent & Culture Annual assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
Natural Disasters Gross risk level Risk and impact Medium Being unable to respond to large scale events or natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, floods orfire, resultingin inability of one or more parts of our business to operate, therefore causing financial Change lossandreputational damage.
No change How do we manage the risk?
All parts of the Group are required to have business continuity plans in place which are tailored to manage Risk appetite thespecific risks they are most likely to face and these are required to be tested periodically.
Cautious The geographic diversity of operating companies limits the impact of any single event and Halma has manufacturing capability in multiple locations which provides flexibility.
Growth enablers Finance & Risk Business interruption insurance is in place to limit any financial loss that may occur.
Talent & Culture Risk Owner Jennifer Ward 9.
Communications Gross risk level Risk and impact High Missed opportunities for growth and attainment of our massive transformative purpose MTP should we notclearly articulate our value propositions to potential partners, customers, employees or acquisition targets.
New risk Halma plc Board members responsible for Communications and Investor Relations.
Risk appetite Clear brand and communications strategy to enable clear understanding and alignment with Group strategy.
Open Proactive brand and communications approach to reach existing and potential audiences to attract and engage Growth enablers them to drive new growth opportunities.
Strategic Communications Development of pitch books, MTP impact stories, product-solution case studies and investment collateral that Talent & Culture aredelivered to the appropriate targets via direct, indirect, social media and investor channels.
Innovation Monitoring of external, social and investor media to gauge sentiment, brand health and protect reputation.
Periodic employee engagement survey to gain feedback on the effectiveness of internal communication.
Communication platform to enable rapid collaboration and information sharing.
Non-compliance with Laws and Regulations Gross risk level Risk and impact High Failing to comply with laws and regulations resulting in damage to reputation and or fines penalties.
Change High-quality management resources who implement controls to monitor and comply with legal requirements No change inall countries we operate.
Operating companies ensure high product quality and compliance with legal standards.
Risk appetite High ethical standards which are captured in our Code of Conduct.
All employees are required to read and Averse signupto it.
Growth enablers Employees across the group perform regular online compliance training.
Finance & Risk A whistleblowing hotline is in place and available for use by all employees.
Talent & Culture All parts of the group complete six-monthly control self-certifications which include legal compliance.
Management of a specific coordinated project to achieve compliance with GDPR regulations.
56 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Gross risk Risk Appetite High High Seeking Medium Medium Open Low Low Cautious Averse Risk Owner Kevin Thompson 11.
Financial Controls Gross risk level Risk and impact Medium Failure in financial controls either on its own or via a fraud which takes advantage of a weakness, resulting infinancial loss and or misstated reported financial results.
This risk has reduced following an update of the Change minimum expected controls for operating companies and a coordinated focus to address the most common New risk financial control gaps identified.
Risk appetite How do we manage the risk?
Averse Local directors have legal, as well as operational, responsibility as they are statutory directors of their operating companies.
This fits with Halmas decentralised model to ensure an effective financial control environment is Growth enablers inplace.
Finance & Risk Talent & Culture To mirror the decentralised model, Halma Group Finance prescribes the minimum expected financial controlstobe in place and requires operating companies to certify every six months that these controls are operating effectively.
These include segregation of duties, delegation of authorities and financial accounts preparation checks.
Six-monthly peer reviews of reported results for each company to provide independent challenge.
InternalAuditalso performs periodic risk based reviews.
A whistleblowing hotline is in place and available for use by all employees.
Treasury Management Gross risk level Risk and impact Medium There is a risk that the Groups cash resources are inadequate to support its activities, there is an inadvertent breach of funding terms covenants, or that there is volatility on the Groups Sterling reported result due Change tounhedged exposure to foreign currency movements.
A long-term Revolving Credit Facility is in place.
Risk appetite Sources of funding, headroom and liquidity forecasts are regularly assessed and monitored.
Averse Funding terms are built into company policies and requirements, including export controls to Growth enablers sanctionedcountries.
Finance & Risk A Group Treasury Policy includes hedging and there is regular monitoring of foreign currency exposure atlocaloperating company and Group level.
Product Failure Gross risk level Risk and impact Medium A failure in one of our products results in serious injury, death or damage to property, including due tonon-compliance with product regulations, resulting in financial loss and reputational damage.
No change Operating companies have strict product development and testing procedures in place to ensure quality ofproducts and compliance with appropriate regulations.
Risk appetite Rigorous testing of products during development and also during the manufacturing process.
Averse Terms and conditions of sale limit liability as much as practically possible and liability insurance is in place.
Growth enablers Product compliance with regulations is checked as part of due diligence for any acquisition.
Finance & Risk Innovation Network Talent & Culture Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 57
