Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Like all businesses, our Group faces risks and uncertainties that could impact the achievement of the Groups strategy.
These risks are accepted as being a part of doing business.
The Board recognises that the nature and scope of these risks can change and so regularly reviews them as well as the systems and processes to mitigate them.
Our corporate risk register is maintained by the Internal Audit team and is regularly updated following discussions with executives and senior management.
It is subject to an annual in-depth review by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is also alerted to any material changes to the register at each of its meetings.
The Board is regularly updated on Audit Committee proceedings.
The Directors have therefore carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 68 further discusses the Boards responsibilities in relation to risk management and internal control systems.
Senior management colleagues assess risks on a  basis using a variety of techniques to identify risk.
The likelihood and impact of these risks are considered and scored against a recognised framework dependent upon their effect on the achievement of our corporate objectives.
Responsibility for taking the necessary actions to manage risk is delegated to appropriate colleagues in the business, with executive manager sponsor involvement.
Mindful of corporate strategy, executive management and the Board consider the risks reported within the risk register and review and monitor new risks and all mitigating actions to ensure that the Groups appetite for risk is not exceeded.
The Board recognises that each of its strategic pillars could be compromised by any of the risks set out below.
Individual Moving Up A Gear initiatives are reliant on some of the mitigations identified.
For example, Service in Our DNA delivery is reliant on full utilisation of our online training system and on our ability to attract and retain good colleagues.
Better Shopping Experience is reliant on our continuing investment in modernisation of our stores.
The Group ensures that it has cover to help to mitigate significant risks where practicable and cost-effective.
Specific financial risks e. g. liquidity, foreign currency are detailed in note 21 to the Financial Statements on page 129.
Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Risk Movement 1.
Economic, Environmental and Political The economy is a major influence The Group mitigates these risks by maintaining a focus on the on consumer spending.
Trends in defensive characteristics of its needs driven product groups.
A employment, inflation, taxation, consumer firm focus is maintained on cost control.
Targeted promotions and debt levels, weather and interest excellent service are designed to attract and retain customers.
rates impact consumer expenditure Advanced econometric modelling is used to understand the in discretionary areas.
Changes in effect of weather conditions on our business and we ensure that Government policies e. g. Cycle to Work marketing and merchandising can be revised quickly.
may also affect our customers ability to We also ensure that we have representation with Governmental benefit from our products and services.
decision-makers in the areas supporting our core categories, both Withdrawal from the EU may have an directly and through membership of trade bodies.
impact on consumer spending, please refer to page 39 for further information.
Key to risk movement Risk increasing No risk movement Risk decreasing 40 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Risk Movement 2. Business Strategy The aim of the Groups business strategy The Group set out the Moving Up A Gear strategy in November is to deliver long-term value to our 2015.
Strategic issues are regularly reviewed at Board meetings.
The Board understands Regular assessment is made to ensure that strategy remains that if the strategy and vision are appropriate, and that the business is making progress in meeting inappropriately formulated, communicated its strategic objectives.
KPIs relating to strategy have been or executed then the business will suffer.
communicated clearly, both within the business and to the market.
Key investments and acquisitions could These KPIs are regularly discussed by the Board.
Our budget fail to deliver sufficient returns.
The process recognises the importance of strategic initiatives.
Autocentres, Cycle Republic and Tredz & In January 2018 we welcomed our new CEO, Graham Stapleton, Wheelies businesses could fail to meet who is reviewing the strategy in close liaison with the Board with growth expectations.
a view to communicating this externally later in the year.
The Group has delegated authorities processes to approve significant investments, including review by an Investment Committee and the Board.
Our Business Transformation Director, an executive level role with a Group-wide remit, oversees strategic project management.
Autocentres, Cycle Republic and Tredz & Wheelies have dedicated, experienced management teams supported by appropriate infrastructure and allocated resources.
The businesses have their own websites.
The performances of these businesses are closely monitored by the Board.
Competition The retail industry is highly competitive The Board is aware of the risks faced from UK retailers both inand dynamic.
The Group competes with shop and online, and from the national car-servicing networks a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes and smaller independents.
and faces competition from UK retailers, We have a significant investment programme to support Moving in both shops and online, as well as up A Gear.
The investment programme is allowing us to improve international operators.
The car servicing the service we provide to customers by improving the quality market is a service-based market with a of our shops, IT infrastructure, training and website including number of different-sized providers where optimisation for mobile and tablet devices.
Excellent service is trust is extremely important to customers.
fundamental to differentiating ourselves from our competitors.
Failure to compete with competitors on We are increasing the number of sales that we are able to areas including price, product range, associate with individual customers.
quality, service and trustworthiness could have an adverse effect on the Groups The national geographical coverage of our shops underpins our financial results.
Our WeFit service is a key differentiator.
Our Cycle Repair and extended Parts, Accessories and Clothing range offer confirm our credibility within the Cycling market.
The Group seeks to continually strengthen its own-brand retail offer and develop opportunities to differentiate the Halfords brand, including TV, radio, press and social media advertising.
We also have high profile partnerships to market brands like Pendleton, Wiggins and Boardman.
Our Autocentres business continually seeks to provide innovative solutions for their customers, such as brakes4life.
Particular attention is given to the changes to our marketplace that are driven by the connected car.
The retail motoring team, digital team, and Autocentres management are working collaboratively to respond to opportunities and threats.
com 41 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Risk Movement 4.
Compliance The Group operates in an environment Regulatory requirements are closely monitored by our Company governed by legislation and codes in areas Secretarial team which includes colleagues with relevant including, but not limited to, Listing Rules, professional qualifications and experience.
The Group has trading standards, advertising, product Quality Assurance and Compliance teams working in both the quality, health and safety, hazardous Retail and Autocentres businesses.
Specialist Health and Safety substances, Bribery Act and data teams ensure that the Group has adequate policies and risk protection.
Retail margin erosions are minimised by a dedicated profit protection team.
A General Data Protection Regulation The Group recognises that failure to GDPR Steering Group is overseeing the introduction of the comply with ethical standards could compliant GDPR arrangements.
expose the business to reputational risk and loss of goodwill.
Colleagues and management are trained to identify and handle inshop regulatory issues using Gears training modules on our online Learning Management System.
We have a Whistleblowing hotline that allows colleagues to raise concerns in confidence.
We operate a Code of Conduct that clearly sets out our expectations of suppliers.
We have a corporate delegated authorities framework How We Do Business setting out key authorisation levels.
Anti-bribery and corruption training, and training on anti-competitive behaviours have been delivered through face-to-face and online training sessions.
The Group has a dedicated Investor Relations Team which ensures that there is frequent and appropriate communication with investors and the wider financial community.
The Group has a dedicated Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, which calls upon cross-functional support as required.
The Group has a comprehensive record of community engagement through events such as childrens bike workshops, and support of the Re Cycle charity.
Our training programme at HMP Onley was judged CSR Initiative of the Year at the 2017 Retail Week awards.
Supply Chain Disruption Halfords sources a significant proportion Extensive research is conducted into quality and ethics before of the merchandise it sells in its shops the Group procures products from any new country or supplier.
from outside of the UK, either directly or The Groups strong management team in the Far East blends via third-party suppliers.
Consequently, the expatriate and local colleagues.
It understands the local culture, Group is subject to the risks associated market regulations and risks and we maintain very close with international trade particularly those relationships with both our suppliers and shippers to ensure that which are common in the import of goods disruption to production and supply are managed appropriately.
from developing countries including, We work with suppliers in a number of territories to reduce the but not limited to, inflation, currency risks of disruption, and we monitor sourcing opportunities nearer fluctuation, the imposition of taxes or to the UK.
other charges on imports, the exposure to different legal standards, the burden of We maintain firm security and protection measures at our complying with a variety of foreign laws distribution centres.
We have business continuity plans to and changing foreign government policies manage any incidents that may occur.
Our logistics are overseen and natural disasters.
UK withdrawal by an experienced, dedicated warehouse and logistics team from the EU is likely to impact on our who maintain contacts with a range of logistics businesses who supply chain, although it is currently very could be utilised if necessary.
We are closely monitoring Brexit difficult to predict how, pending ongoing developments and preparing contingency plans for any changes .
in the nature of the border between the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
The Group could also be impacted in the event of disruption to domestic logistic arrangements: for example, unavailability of distribution centres or road transport problems.
42 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Risk Movement 6.
Product and Service Quality and Brand Reputation The Board recognises that the quality and The Group constantly seeks to enhance its position as the shop safety of both our products and services or centre of first choice in each of the markets that it serves.
in our shops and Autocentres are of Our 3-Gears training programme uses online modules to ensure critical importance and that any major that colleagues are consistently knowledgeable about our failure will affect consumer confidence products and able to deliver quality services to customers.
Failure to protect the This online training is reinforced by face-to-face learning and Groups reputation and brand could lead assessments.
Shops use an accreditation matrix to ensure that to a loss of trust and confidence.
This all building and fitting is undertaken by competent colleagues.
could result in a decline in the customer Product knowledge among colleagues is promoted through base and affect the ability to recruit and specialist conferences for selected staff e. g. BikeHut managers.
There is also the risk We have also implemented measures to ensure that we attract and that our service proposition fails due to retain the best colleagues: for example, engagement surveys aim inconsistent levels of service at individual to identify opportunities to reduce colleague turnover, which is shops and individual centres.
at its lowest for several years.
We have again been recognised as one of the Sunday Times Best Big Companies to Work For.
Our recruitment processes are now centralised to improve efficiency and consistency.
Our products are risk assessed and rigorously tested for quality and safety by qualified engineers in our dedicated quality team.
We monitor customer comments and complaints and, when necessary, we have established recall processes.
We work closely with suppliers and frequently visit factories to ensure manufacturing standards are maintained.
Our Autocentres utilise a comprehensive quality assurance process with checks by regional and centre managers.
Technicians are regularly checked to ensure quality of workmanship, and the priority status allocated to individual jobs is reviewed to ensure safety and prevent overselling.
There is a dedicated Operations Quality team.
com 43 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Risk Movement 7.
Information Technology IT Systems and Infrastructure In common with most businesses, Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity of our Halfords is dependent on the reliability systems and to ensure that systems changes are implemented and suitability of a number of important IT in a controlled manner.
Halfords key trading systems are systems where any sustained performance hosted within a secure data centre operated by a specialist problems including those caused by company remote from our support centre.
These systems are cyberattack could potentially compromise also supported by a number of disaster recovery arrangements our operational capability for a period including a comprehensive backup and patching strategy, and of time, impacting on shops, centres or a hotlink secure data centre hosted in a different location.
warehouse, multi-channel and distribution IT recovery processes are tested regularly.
With ambitious growth plans We review our IT security processes and risk assessments on for our multi-channel offer, our trading an ongoing basis and our IT team has dedicated IT security and capacity could be affected by internal continuity experts.
We utilise appropriate firewalls and we have and external systems resilience and undertaken network penetration testing.
The Audit Committee is briefed by senior IT management on the Commercial data could be lost or stolen business IT security framework and continues to closely monitor through cyberattack, sabotage, or this area.
Press reports and professional advisors indicate that cyberattacks are becoming more sophisticated and common.
Dependence on Key Management Personnel The success of the Groups business Our Remuneration Policy summarised on pages 80 to 81 details depends upon its senior management the strategies in place to ensure that high calibre executives are closely supervising all aspects of its attracted and retained.
The Group looks to improve its senior business, in particular, the operation of manager cadre through operating a talent management process the shops and Autocentres, including the to help individuals achieve their full potential within Halfords and to appropriate training of in-shop and centre ensure that appropriate succession plans are in place to meet the colleagues, and the design, procurement future needs of the business.
At a junior level, the Group continues and allocation of merchandise.
to invest in graduate and apprenticeship programmes and shop and Autocentre colleague training and development.
Dennis Millard Chairman 22 May 2018 44 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 OUR GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 48 Directors Report 50 Corporate Governance Report 56 Nomination Committee Report 70 Corporate Social Responsibility 72 Committee Report Audit Committee Report 74 Remuneration Committee Report 78 Directors' Remuneration Policy 80 Summary Report Annual Remuneration Report 82 Directors Responsibilities 91 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10
