Risks and uncertainties Our approach to risk management The effective integration of risk management underpins our operating, financial and governance activities.
Risk levels have heightened during 2018, particularly those associated with the UK retail market, and have been a key area of focus and action for the Group throughout the year.
environment in which the Group operates has Risk overview Retail market risk heightened over the course of the year.
This is Effective risk management supports the The Board has determined that the residual largely due to the continued level of delivery of our strategy as see page 12 and risk associated with the Retail market, uncertainty associated with the future impact underpins our business model see page 14. particularly in the UK, currently exceeds the of the UKs exit from the EU, the significant Our risk management policies and procedures Groups risk appetite.
Mitigating actions to deterioration in the UK retail market and are designed to enhance decision making, reduce this level of residual risk are consistent weaker investment markets.
reduce the chances of financial loss, protect with the Groups strategy of optimising the our reputation and improve efficiency.
portfolio: repurposing space away from As adverse risk events rarely occur in challenged retail categories: and enhancing isolation, the increased level of risk was The Board determines the Groups risk experience through events and digital discussed throughout the year and formed a appetite and assesses the residual risk for innovation across our portfolio.
key element of the decision to withdraw from each of the Groups principal risks.
This the acquisition of intu.
Risks were also process is supported by our Risk Management Other key factors in reducing the Groups discussed at the 2018 Board Strategy Day in Framework RMF and Risk Dashboard.
overall level of residual risk include the 2019 October and factored into the Groups priorities of reducing debt through disposals five-year Business Plan.
Given the work undertaken during the year, from across the portfolio, putting the share the Board is able to confirm that during 2018 buyback programme on hold and limiting it has carried out a robust assessment of the new expenditure commitments.
Chart 37 Groups principal risks which are presented in this section of the Annual Report.
Risk Heat Map Groups principal Risk appetite and assessment risks As part of its risk management activities, the 1.
Macro-economic Board assesses the residual risk for each of the 2.
Retail market 1 2 Groups 10 principal risks.
Property evaluating the level of risk taking into account investment 3 the impact of specified mitigating factors and 4.
The residual risk is then considered development within the context of the Boards risk appetite, 5.
Treasury 8 5 which reflects its combined attitude to 6.
Partnerships 7 financial, operational and reputational risks.
Tax and regulatory The residual risk levels at 31 December 2018 8.
Catastrophic are shown on the Risk Heat Map on Chart 37, event with the red-coloured area in the top 6 9.
People right-hand corner of the diagram being an 4 9 10.
Environmental assessment which would exceed the Boards 10 risk appetite.
The heat map also shows the movement in residual risk levels during 2018 Risk appetite with the opening position for the year Exceeds Groups risk appetite reflecting the risk assessment associated with In line with Groups the proposed acquisition of intu.
risk appetite Following the Boards decision to withdraw Lower than Groups risk appetite its offer for intu in April 2018, a number of the Groups risks reduced and the Acquisition completion risk was removed.
However, the Low Medium High heat map shows that overall, the general risk Probability Note: Arrow indicates change in risk assessment during 2018.
56 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Impact Low Medium High Strategic Report Risks and uncertainties Implementation and compliance responsibility medium to long-term impacts associated with committees in ensuring effective control is Brexit the performance of the UK economy and its applied across the Groups activities.
The UKs decision to exit from the EU by attractiveness to foreign investors.
March 2019 has created significant Risk review process uncertainty which impacts a number of the The Board, having considered the Brexit The RMF is structured around the Groups Groups principal risks.
The Risk Heat Map on review believes the Groups strategy and principal risks, although it also contains a Chart 37 assumes an orderly Brexit.
geographical and sector diversification will number of other less material operational provide resilience until the outcome and From a risk perspective, the main impact of risks.
For each risk, the RMF details wider impact of Brexit is determined.
Brexit is on Macro-economic, Retail market, mitigating factors and actions, senior Property investment and Tax and regulatory management responsibility and is Risk management risks.
The absolute impact will be dependent summarised on pages 58 to 62. responsibilities on the timing and terms of the UKs exit from The RMF is reviewed at each Audit The responsibility for risk management the EU, with a disorderly exit having a higher Committee and Risk and Controls Committee impact on these risks.
ultimately rests with the Board.
However, it is meeting and is also subject to a formal vital that risk management is effectively We have undertaken a Brexit review to six-monthly management review.
Feedback integrated throughout the business and is understand its potential impact on the Group from this exercise is collated and reported to instilled in the Groups culture and values.
and this was factored into the Board viability the two committees.
A quarterly Risk Our management structure means that the statement assessment.
As the Group does not Dashboard is produced which contains both senior team is actively involved in designing, directly rely on imports or exports we are current and forward-looking metrics for each monitoring and ensuring adherence to the largely protected from the immediate impact of of the principal risks and assists in assessing Groups risk-related policies and procedures.
However, we have taken steps the Groups risk appetite.
During 2018, to improve internal such as increasing stocks of replacement parts communication, we provided all colleagues The RMF is also used in determining the for IT systems and plant and machinery at our with access to a common intranet, annual internal audit plan see page 80, properties and reviewed security arrangements 'Ondemand'.
This enables the effective which is structured to ensure an appropriate in case of any disorder.
The more significant sharing of news and issues across the Group.
coverage of the Groups principal risks, and to impact is likely to be suffered by our tenants, review areas of change or emerging risks particularly those who rely on imports and Chart 38 illustrates the key roles and across the business or risks which have not responsibilities for risk management and exports for their operations or those who been subjected to recent audit review.
There are also likely to be demonstrates the interaction between the Board and the various management teams and Chart 38 Key roles and responsibilities for the Groups risk management strategy Overall responsibility for corporate strategy, governance, performance, Board internal controls and risk management Defines the Groups risk appetite and monitors risks to ensure these are effectively managed, including agreeing mitigating actions where necessary Reviews effectiveness of the RMF and internal controls on behalf of the Board Audit Committee Monitors compliance with relevant legislation, rules and regulations Oversees effectiveness of the Groups internal audit arrangements Manages the business and delivery of strategy Group Executive Reviews the RMF and prioritises actions and allocates resources to effectively Committee manage risk Oversees Health and Safety Responsible for integration of the RMF throughout the business Risk and Controls Monitors compliance with the Groups internal control systems Committee Manages the internal audit arrangements Responsible for implementation of risk mitigation and monitoring Divisional compliance with internal controls and procedures at the operational level of management and the business other committees Reviews the RMF to identify risk trends and recommend actions Oversees UK and Ireland: France: and premium outlets divisions, health and safety, IT, project and other specific risk management activities www.
com 57 Monitoring and reporting responsibility Risks and uncertainties continued Risk management framework Further details of the Groups ten principal risks extracted from the Groups RMF and their alignment to our strategy see page 12 are shown below.
Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2018 and outlook Impact Probability 1.
Macro-economic Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: High Our financial performance is directly Diversified portfolio sectors, geography and The UK economic position has weakened during impacted by the macro-economic tenants 2018, largely due to the uncertainty associated environment in the countries in which we Flagship destinations located in heart of with Brexit.
Nonetheless, GDP has grown by 1.4% operate.
Key factors impacting our successful cities in the year and there are other economic tenants and shoppers are GDP and Premium outlets located in affluent indicators which provide some optimism for an disposable income growth, employment catchments with strong tourist appeal improvement in sentiment if a smooth Brexit levels, inflation, business and consumer Monitoring of macro-economic research resolution can be delivered.
There are similar confidence, interest rates and foreign Economic review at annual Board Strategy mixed indicators across the EU, although in exchange movements.
Day France and Ireland unemployment continues to The lack of clarity over the precise terms Business Plan projections stress tested fall and growth prospects remain favourable.
and timing of the UKs exit from the EU Resilient business model and financial Inflation and interest rate pressures remain stable results in heightened macro-economic position and are closely linked to future economic and property market uncertainty Brexit assessment undertaken performance and the GBP: exchange rate fell by adversely impacting the Groups Low level of capital commitments only 1% in 2018.
Application of our Product Experience sensitive to external shocks, particularly Framework Link to strategy associated with Brexit.
The Groups diversification, both geographically and by sector, enhances our resilience to external shocks.
We remain committed to retaining operational and financial flexibility in case of macro-economic weakness and are pursuing disposals from across our portfolio to strengthen the Groups balance sheet.
See the Letter from the Chair of the Board on pages 2 and 3.
Retail market Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: High in excess of risk appetite We own and operate property in a High-quality portfolio of flagship 2018 has been a turbulent year with a spike in dynamic retail marketplace.
Failure to destinations and premium outlets tenant failures in the UK portfolio reducing income anticipate and address developments and Significant diversity of retail categories and by 6 million and continued growth in online trends in consumer and occupational tenants which limits the impact from failure retailing.
We remain nervous about the trading markets, such as omnichannel retailing of individual tenants environment in 2019 and are actively repurposing and digital technology, will result in Exit from UK retail parks sector over space away from challenged retail categories such financial underperformance and future medium term as department stores and high street fashion.
Application of our Product Experience Leasing demand has remained solid in 2018, and Retailer profitability is challenged due to Framework to ensure the relevance of our our occupancy remains stable, although slightly increased costs, downward pressure on portfolio lower than 2017.
The retail market is polarising margins from channel shift and weak Bespoke leasing strategies to repurpose with tenants seeking space in vibrant locations retail sales, particularly in the UK.
This space away from challenged retail categories which are able to support their evolving adversely impacts landlords through supported by deep retailer relationships omnichannel strategies.
Our business model and tenant failure and in the ability to achieve Increased focus on experience with tailored Product Experience Framework are designed to rental growth.
F&B, leisure and events offers benefit from this evolution, although the transition Given the dynamic market environment, A dynamic and diverse internal team to will be challenging.
retailers are seeking more flexible leases, deliver the Groups strategy with shorter terms or breaks which Digital innovation strategy to provide Our premium outlets have again delivered strong threatens the security of income for detailed consumer insight and enable brand sales growth and we are confident that landlords.
communication with our shoppers demand for off-price luxury brands will support Premium outlets already utilise flexible future performance.
Link to strategy leases and benefit from favourable tourist trends See Our markets on pages 10 and 11.
58 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Risks and uncertainties Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2018 and outlook Impact Probability 3.
Property investment Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: High Poor investment decisions involving Board approval for all significant investment We completed 570 million of disposals in 2018 and we are aiming to dispose of at least acquisitions and disposals result in decisions suboptimal returns.
Track record of property recycling which has 500million in 2019.
Although, whilst we remain committed to exit from UK retail parks over the Property valuations fall, adversely raised 1.6 billion over previous three years impacting the Groups financial position Announced 1.1 billion disposal target over medium term, to deliver our 2019 debt reduction priority we are pursuing disposals from across and delivery of future plans.
period 2018-19, including exit from UK retail Opportunities to divest properties are parks sector ourportfolio.
missed, or are limited by market Pursuing disposals from across portfolio Given the heightened level of uncertainty conditions, which reduce financial returns Thorough due diligence, research and risk associated with both Brexit and the broader retail and adversely impact the Groups funding assessment to support investment decisions market, investors remain selective.
Properties held ready for sale been few sizeable transactions in retail property Diversification of portfolio by sector and Link to strategy investment markets in 2018, with the UK market geography limits impact of downturn in a weakening significantly in the second half of single market theyear.
Twice-yearly independent valuations Stress tests included in annual Business Plan The Groups properties have fallen in value by an to assess balance sheet strength average of 4% in 2018, which includes a reduction in UK values of 11%.
We expect further moderate weakness in UK values until the outcome of Brexit is determined.
Values of the Groups non-UK properties are forecast to be supported by the continuing low interest rate environment and stronger macro-economic backdrop in those jurisdictions.
Overall we expect future investor demand to focus on high-quality property which is well-positioned for the dynamic retail marketplace.
See Property portfolio review on pages 44 to 47.
Property development Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Low The Groups development exposure is low and at Property development is complex and Proven track record of developing successful inherently risky.
Major projects have long iconic destinations 31 December 2018 developments represented only 7% 2017: 5% of our total property portfolio.
delivery times with multiple milestones, Only two on-site schemes and low capital including planning and leasing.
commitments at 31 December 2018 of Two retail park schemes completed during the Unsuccessful projects result in adverse 163 million 2017: 89 million year and we started extension projects at financial and reputational outcomes.
Development plans and exposure included Les 3 Fontaines and Italie Deux.
Over-exposure to developments increases in annual Business Planning process the potential financial impact of adverse Board approves all major commitments We also launched our City Quarters concept to valuation, cost inflation or other market Regular project reviews including twicebring forward development opportunities on land factors which could overstretch the yearly Board review and project risk we own surrounding our existing flagship Groups financial capacity.
These schemes are at a relatively Projects require appropriate resource and Clear project ownership and resourcing early stage and require planning consent before can be management intensive.
plans they can be started, meaning that the current Projects typically use fixed price contracts expenditure required to extract value is low.
Link to strategy and have appropriate contingencies Post-completion reviews undertaken to Given the heightened level of uncertainty, from identify future improvements both economic and retail market perspectives, we New City Quarters concept requires initial do not believe the risk and reward balance is low levels of capital expenditure to deliver appropriate for us to commit to any major schemes planning approvals until markets stabilise.
See Operating review on pages 30 and 32. www.
com 59 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2018 and outlook Impact Probability 5.
Treasury Executive responsibility: Timon Drakesmith Residual risk assessment: Medium Poor treasury planning or external factors, Treasury planning to ensure appropriate At 31 December 2018 our balance sheet and key including failures in the banking market, liquidity levels are maintained financing metrics remained robust, with liquidity may lead to the Group having insufficient Board approves and monitors key financing of 729 million, loan to value of 38% and gearing of liquidity.
The Groups financial position is unable to Annual Business Plan includes a financing In August, we redeemed the Groups 500 million support the delivery of our strategy.
plan and associated stress tests 2.75% bonds which were due to mature in Deterioration in our financial position due Capital provided by a diverse range of September 2019.
Following this redemption, we to property valuation declines could result counterparties banks, bond investors and have no debt maturing until mid-2021 and the in a breach of borrowing covenants.
JV partners average debt maturity has remained stable at Significant fluctuations in sterling or euro All major investment approvals supported 5.4 years 2017: 5.6 years.
exchange rates or a significant increase in by a financing plan interest rates could result in financial No debt maturities due until 2021 Interest rates in the UK and EU are forecast to losses.
Low level of capital commitments of remain low over the medium term and the Group 163 million at 31 December 2018 Link to strategy has significant headroom and financial flexibility At 31 December 2018 we estimate that to cope with further valuation reductions.
Both property values including premium outlets Moodys and Fitch have recently reaffirmed the could fall by 29% and net rental income by Groups credit rating of Baa1 and Asenior 56% before our most stringent borrowing unsecured respectively see page 55 for further covenants would be exceeded details.
Interest rate and currency hedging programme used to mitigate market The reduction in the residual risk assessment also volatility reflects the reduced leverage risk which was formally associated with the proposed intu acquisition.
See Financial review on pages 53 to 55.
Partnerships Executive responsibility: David Atkins Timon Drakesmith Residual risk assessment: Medium A significant proportion of the Groups Proven track record of working successfully Our partners provide capital to support our properties are held in conjunction with with diverse range of partners strategy of owning flagship destinations and third parties.
These structures can limit Contracts provide liquidity for partners premium outlets.
At 31 December 2018, 63% 2017: the Groups control and reduce liquidity.
whilst protecting Group interests 58% of the Groups portfolio, including premium Operational effectiveness may also be Annual joint venture business plans ensure outlets, is held with third parties.
adversely impacted if partners are not operational and strategic alignment The increase in 2018 was due a combination of the strategically aligned.
The Group has governance rights for both its valuation changes across the Group, the disposal of Our premium outlet investments are premium outlet investments and, whilst 50% of Highcross to a new joint venture, and the externally managed and this reduces externally managed, joint control over VIA remaining disposals which were all wholly-owned.
control and transparency over Outlets performance and governance.
They also Board representation for both Value Retail The increased risk assessment is also due to the contain pre-emption rights in favour of and VIA Outlets 2017 position reflecting the proposed intu the Group and other owners in case of Value Retail and VIA Outlets are both acquisition which would have reduced the transactions in the interests of the two subject to local external audit.
The proportion of the portfolio held with third parties investments.
Further details are provided properties are valued by Cushman & to approximately 40%.
Wakefield and are subject to review by the Audit Committee and the Groups external We regularly monitor our partnership exposure Link to strategy auditor and remain comfortable that it does not adversely impact performance or liquidity.
See notes 13 and 14 to the financial statements on pages 147 to 156.
60 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Risks and uncertainties Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2018 and outlook Impact Probability 7.
Tax and regulatory Executive responsibility: Timon Drakesmith Residual risk assessment: Medium High There is an increasing burden from Maintenance of our low-risk tax status in We believe the Group is appropriately structured compliance and regulatory requirements theUK to mitigate the impact of future tax changes and which can impede operational and Regular meetings with key officials including continue to review all new legislation.
from HMRC and government However, the heightened uncertainty over future The real estate and physical retail sector Participation in policy consultations and in regulatory and tax matters associated with Brexit has suffered a rising tax burden through industry-led dialogue with policy makers acts to increase the Groups residual risk.
recent increases in business rates, living through bodies such as REVO, BPF, wage, stamp duty etc.
We support calls for a review of business rates and impact our financial performance and the Regular tax compliance reviews wider real estate taxation to ensure a fair tax profitability of our tenants.
Advance planning for future regulatory and burden is paid by all.
Brexit creates heightened uncertainty tax changes over the future UK tax and regulatory GDPR training completed by all employees environment.
before new regulation introduced in May 2018 See note 9 to the financial statements on Link to strategy Brexit assessment undertaken pages 141 and 142.
Catastrophic event Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Medium High Our operations, shopper safety, Continuity plans at both corporate and Whilst there were fewer incidents in 2018, the reputation or financial performance could individual property levels threat of terrorism at public venues remains high.
be significantly affected by a major event Core crisis group for dealing with major We regularly review our processes and procedures such as a terrorist or cyber-attack, power incidents to counter the threat of a major incident.
However, shortage or civil unrest.
Enhanced physical security measures it is not possible to fully mitigate these risks and implemented Link to strategy the related impacts.
Regular dialogue with security agencies to assess threat levels and best practice The wider use of digital technology across the Mock terrorist incident staged in Bullring in Group increases the risks associated with late 2017 cybersecurity.
In 2018, we have enhanced our staff Internal audits undertaken for business training and communication on potential IT continuity and cybersecurity security and data protection issues.
We continue Insurance cover for terrorism and property to review these risks particularly when damage implementing new system solutions.
Third-party support and regular testing for IT security Internal communications and training to enhance cybersecurity awareness www.
com 61 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2018 and outlook Impact Probability 9.
People Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Low Medium The Group has a relatively small Annual Business Plan with human resources People are a key factor in the Groups headcount which could hinder the plan, covering team structures, training and performance.
We continue to encourage and achievement of business objectives, talent management initiatives support their training and development.
During particularly in times of significant activity.
Succession planning undertaken across the the year, staff turnover across the Group has A failure to recruit and retain key senior management team remained low at 13.4%, and was particularly low executives and staff with appropriate Board approval required for significant inthe UK.
skills would also adversely impact management changes The heightened uncertainty associated with the corporate performance.
Annual employee appraisal process proposed intu acquisition and Klpierre approach Heightened market uncertainty acts to undertaken increased job security concerns.
Staff morale has adversely impact staff morale and external Staff training and development supported also been adversely impacted by the turbulence in recruitment.
and encouraged the UK retail market.
This has been evidenced in a Staff turnover and employee engagement Link to strategy reduced engagement score in the UK in the recent monitored Great Places to Work survey.
We are currently Annual Great Place to Work survey planning staff engagement activities to address a monitors engagement and staff feedback number of the issues raised in the survey.
Internal diversity and inclusion programme increases awareness and foster engagement See Our people on page 41.
Environmental Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Low The Groups operations could be adversely Experienced sustainability team to design We have further reduced our environmental impacted by an environmental incident and implement our environmental and impact during 2018.
Key achievements were an such as extreme weather, flooding or corporate responsibility strategy in 11% reduction in carbon emissions and like-forenergy supply issues.
conjunction with the wider business like energy demand.
Our environmental focus and The Groups reputation and financial Corporate responsibility committees expertise is expected to enable the Group to performance could be adversely impacted monitor the Groups sustainability achieve its first set of Net Positive targets in 2020. by the failure to achieve our Net Positive performance, including progress against Net To achieve the more ambitious post 2020 Net targets or other environmental objectives.
Positive targets Positive targets we need to collaborate with our Emerging environmental regulations and Detailed environmental risk framework tenants to reduce the environmental impact of our legislation, including amended legislation maintained existing portfolio.
We also need to ensure new following Brexit, may act to increase costs Green energy contracts in place across developments are designed to deliver or make properties obsolete.
portfolio environmental excellence and reduce our carbon Core crisis group for dealing with major Link to strategy footprint.
incidents Annual Board review of sustainability performance and future strategy External assurance of environmental See Sustainability review on page 34 and reporting www.
62 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Risks and uncertainties Viability statement In addition to the business planning process, In addition, stress tests were undertaken on Viability statement the Board also considers the long-term the Plan to understand how far values and The Directors have considered the future prospects of the Group when approving rental income would have to decline to breach viability of the Group taking into account its significant transactions including disposals the Groups existing gearing and interest current position, strategy, principal risks and and capital expenditure requests.
The Board cover financial covenants.
The results of the future prospects.
The Groups strategy and receives twice-yearly updates on the Groups calculations for the 2018 year-end position business model are explained on pages 12 to development schemes, including the major are disclosed in the explanation of the 15.
These are designed in response to the developments and progress with the City Groups Treasury principal risk on page 60 dynamic market trends in which the Group Quarters concept.
A number of these projects and the Board were satisfied that the Group operates, as explained on pages 10 to 11, to have forecast completion dates outside of the has sufficient headroom.
create long-term value for our stakeholders.
Further factors considered in the viability Assessment of prospects assessment were the diversity of the Groups Assessment of period portfolio by both retail sector and geography As explained on pages 2 to 3, following the There are a number of factors which influence and the low level of capital commitments.
withdrawal from the intu acquisition in April the period of assessment: a thorough review of the Groups strategy was Conclusion undertaken resulting in the announcement of The Groups annual Business Plan covers a a reshaped strategy in July 2018.
The review, five-year period Based on the assessment of the prospects and supported by McKinsey & Company and the viability of the Group, the Directors have The Group has a stable, diverse, secure Companys brokers and financial advisors, concluded that they have a reasonable income stream with the majority of leases considered the recent and future expectation that the Group will be able to containing five-year, upward only, rent performance of each of the Groups property continue in operation and meet its liabilities reviews with an average unexpired lease sectors, taking into account macro-economic as they fall due over a five-year period to term of 5.5 years at 31 December 2018 and property market projections from a 31 December 2023.
The Group has diverse sources of funding number of external commentators including with an average maturity of 5.4 years and This five-year period is unchanged Bain & Company, Bank of England, Cushman no debt maturities until June 2021 & Wakefield, Oxford Economics, PMA.
from the period adopted for the 2017 Viabilitystatement.
Assessment of viability The strategy was again reviewed at the 2018 Strategy Day in October and output from this Going Concern statement The Plan was assessed against a number of event was incorporated into the Groups 2019 scenarios, including a disorderly Brexit The Directors have reviewed the current and Business Plan which was subsequently outcome, and involved modelling changes in projected financial position of the Group, approved by the Board.
property values, rental income and disposal including current assets and liabilities and the and reinvestment assumptions.
These are net current liabilities position, making The Business Plan was structured around the consistent with adverse changes to the reasonable assumptions about future trading Groups strategy and includes income and Groups principal risks which are most likely performance, property valuations and capital balance sheet projections, funding plans and to impact the viability of the Group being: expenditure plans.
The review considered the portfolio strategies: including asset Macro-economic, Retail market, Property Groups current liquidity position, current management, investment, disposals and investment and Treasury risks.
assets and liabilities, its debt maturity profile, capital expenditure plans.
In addition to the future commitments and forecast cash flows.
"""base"" plan, the Plan also included a number The level of adverse change was assessed of alternative scenarios and stress tests to against a range of potential outcomes and Based on this review the Directors are able assess the Groups resilience to challenges in historical evidence."
These included a to conclude that they have a reasonable achieving its strategy and external shocks.
5% reduction in Group net rental income, expectation that the Company and the a 1 billion reduction in property values Group have adequate resources to continue Projections were compiled on a property-byand the impact of no future disposals and in operational existence for at least the property basis using the underlying lease data reduced capital expenditure.
next 12 months and continue to adopt and the key base case assumptions included: the going concern basis in preparing the The scenarios, when combined with the A managed exit for the UK from the EU financial statements for the year ended Groups current financial position and 31December 2018.
Forecast economic conditions, including mitigation actions available to management, broadly stable GDP growth and future supported the Groups predicted ability to 2018 Strategic Report interest and foreign exchange rates in the overcome adverse economic and property UK and EU market conditions over the forecast period.
Pages 1 to 63 of this Annual Report constitute Continued challenges in the retail the Strategic Report.
It has been approved Key mitigating actions involved flexibility property market, including further tenant over future expenditure, disposals and andsigned on behalf of the Board on failures and valuation weakness in the UK 25February 2019. funding plans.
The ability to complete the Groups announced disposal plans David Atkins Financial markets remaining available to Director the Group to refinance maturing facilities and bonds Timon Drakesmith Director www.
