Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Managing our risks | 33 How we protect our business The operational management of our business and execution of our strategy is subject to a number of risks.
We have a risk management and control framework in place to ensure that we identify, plan for, and react appropriately to a range of eventualities.
Viability statement The Directors have assessed the incorporated into the plan.
The Three Brexit scenarios, including no deal, prospects and viability of the Group Year Plan assumes there will be no as highlighted in the Managing our over a period longer than 12 months, change to the Groups borrowing risks section on page 37.
The stresses in accordance with provision C2.2 of facilities, which primarily consist were assessed independently at the the 2016 UK Corporate Governance of 250m fixed rate senior bonds level of Retail and Underwriting Code.
The Directors assessment has repayable in 2025 and a 110m respectively before assessing the been made with reference to the committed Revolving Credit Facility aggregate impact at the Group level.
Groups current financial position and RCF which runs to May 2023: that The minimum requirements for prospects.
The period assessed of dividends continue to be paid in the Group to be considered viable three years aligns with the Groups accordance with the target payout were to maintain throughout each medium term strategic planning ratio: that a consistent reserving policy modelled period: process the Three Year Plan which is applied: and that financial services appropriate liquidity available with the Directors review and approve on firms in Gibraltar will continue to be sufficient headroom under the RCF an annual basis.
The Three Year Plan able to access the UK market.
The UK to maintain positive free cash held is based on the Boards strategy, Government has guaranteed this whilst meeting its liabilities as they development programmes, risk access on the existing basis until fall due: appetite, expectations of insurance 31 December 2020 and confirmed that continued compliance with the market pricing cycles and assessment it will work closely with the Government Revolving Credit Facility financial of the principal risks as detailed on of Gibraltar to design a replacement covenants: page 38, as well as how these are framework to endure beyond this.
Three years is considered a surplus over the minimum FCA appropriate for assessing the viability The Three Year Plan was then robustly MIPRU resource requirements in of the Group as it strikes a good tested by applying 12 challenging HISL: and balance between the need to forecast scenarios designed to threaten the a surplus over the Solvency II over a longer period, whilst recognising viability of the Group.
The stresses solvency capital requirements the pace of change within the industry, applied reflect the crystallisation of the in AICL.
uncertainty surrounding insurance principal risks identified, including: market pricing cycles and the risks and pricing and reserve risks that arise In certain of the most severe opportunities that may emerge.
from insurance activities: scenarios, achievable, short term operational risk, including risk of mitigating actions within the control of The Three Year Plan is constructed cyber attack: the Company and its subsidiaries were based on the commercial activities of identified.
After the application of the Groups Retail and Underwriting commercial performance risk: these, the Group maintained positive businesses.
This includes a detailed liquidity, solvency and capital risk: free cash as well as headroom over the analysis of income and expenditure and financial covenants and Solvency II and the resulting cash generated, capital requirements throughout each supported by explanations of material a combination of these risks of the modelled scenarios.
On this year on year movements, over the crystallising concurrently.
basis, the Directors confirm that they term of the Three Year Plan.
There are have a reasonable expectation that regular briefings to the Board and The stresses applied were sufficiently the Group will continue to operate senior management, which include severe and targeted to include the and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, the progress of new strategies being potential impacts to the Group of likely for the next three years.
implemented and how these are Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 34 | Managing our risks continued Our approach Governance strategy The Risk Management Framework includes risk and control frameworks for and control The Board continues to develop and the trading entities, as well as risk embed a culture of risk management The Groups governance structure, registers that document risks, controls, through the identification, measurement combined with embedded controls, key risk indicators, actions related to risk mitigation, monitoring and reporting of processes and reporting protocols, mitigation and ownership of each risk.
The Board also enables senior management to conduct The frameworks are continuously sets risk appetite, reviews risks, both the affairs of the trading entities in line developed to include Strategic, Business existing and emerging, and considers with expectations of their respective and Emerging risks.
risk when reviewing the Groups strategy board of each entity and, ultimately, and operational delivery.
This ensures that Broadly, Strategic risk is reviewed and the trading entities adhere to approved challenged by the Risk Committee and The Board has ultimate responsibility for strategies and regulatory requirements, respective committee of each of the the Groups risk management framework regularly monitor outcomes, proactively Groups trading entities.
These and delegates the oversight of this to the identify risks and opportunities and committees receive timely, up to date Risk Committee.
This Committee is a apply appropriate mitigation as required.
reports from the oversight functions on formal sub-committee of the Board with the material movement of risk, whether its own Terms of Reference.
Strategy is implemented by suitably influenced by external or internal experienced and competent people in monitoring and audits or events, or by The principal purpose of the Risk the trading entities, incentivised any material shift in business risk that is Committee is to advise the Board on risk appropriately and guided by the Groups linked to the successful delivery of the management matters, recommend the strong corporate culture and values.
Group risk limits and risk appetite to the The ability to identify and respond Board for approval, and oversee the risk quickly to evolving or emerging risks Business risk is overseen by management arrangements of the and issues is supported by a dynamic management committees at an Company and Group generally.
The environment that encourages operational level.
Departmental risk Committee seeks to ensure that the independent and objective challenge, profiles risks, controls, key risk indicators material risks facing the Group are being focused on escalation and resolution.
and internal or external events are held identified and that appropriate Timely management information is centrally and regularly provided to the arrangements are in place to manage, generated to enable appropriate risk management function for mitigate, monitor and report those risks monitoring, reporting, oversight and independent review and challenge.
effectively: it also seeks to ensure that decision making based on sound responsibility for doing so in each of the proposals and judgement.
Emerging risks, by their very nature could trading entities has been effectively be strategic or at a business level, and delegated to the respective company The controls in place to support when identified are recorded, assessed boards.
Further information on the work the operations of the Group in the and mitigated within the requirements of of the Risk Committee can be found in management and mitigation of risk the Risk Management Framework its committee report on pages 87 to 89. are routinely evaluated, as appropriate, and enhanced to ensure their suitability Stress testing and scenario analysis are Each trading entity has its own risk and effectiveness.
regularly undertaken and reviewed by management structure to ensure all risks the Risk Committee, including the testing are reported to, and reviewed by, the Risk management framework that has been carried out to support the appropriate management oversight The Group continues to develop and Viability Statement on page 33.
Financial forum and, ultimately, the respective enhance its Risk Management performance, financial position and cash board risk committee.
The process for Framework to ensure there is a flows have been stress tested using the development and enhancement of consistent approach to risk principal financial and operational risks operational risk registers continues to management across the Group.
listed on page 38, including reductions evolve as the business matures and in premium and other income, retention grows.
Risk management reporting from Our evolving Risk Management rates and new business volumes, the trading entities is consolidated for Framework seeks to provide a deterioration in loss ratio, possible failure review by the Risk Committee and Board.
disciplined and structured process to of a reinsurer and adverse impacts reduce the potential for internal or of a cyber attack.
Focus has also been external events that may detrimentally applied, within the relevant trading entity, affect the Group.
to ensure compliance with Solvency II and regulatory requirements.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 35 Internal control framework The Group has an internal control framework based on the three lines of defence approach, which can be illustrated as: First line: Business Operations has ownership, responsibility and accountability for day to day risk identification, assessment and management activity: directly owns and operates risk mitigating policies and controls and remedial actions: seeks to ensure compliance with all regulatory obligations and internal policies: and provides management assurance by monitoring and reporting risk, control and compliance matters for governance oversight.
Second line: Oversight Functions establishes boundaries by proposing Group policies and frameworks for Board approval, and standards to align Group wide practices to defined strategy: facilitates guidance and direction on effective risk, control and compliance management practices to satisfy Group policies and standards as well as regulatory requirements: and applies Group wide best practice providing oversight, challenge, monitoring and assurance reporting directly to Board Committees.
Third line: Independent Assurance offers independent challenge and assurance by auditors, both internal and external, and external actuaries: provides independent challenge, objective assurance and consulting activities designed to add value and improve the Groups operations: and bring a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management control and governance processes.
All three lines of defence have Over the course of the year second The Group continued to strengthen specific tasks within the internal line oversight and challenge has technical expertise in information control framework and report via the further enhanced risk management, security and data protection, respective governance committees resulting in a bottom up review and conducted security audits and of the trading entities, to the Audit or refresh of risk registers to reflect the mitigated privacy risk and harm to Risk Committee and, ultimately, to the changing environment and dynamic individuals, through the misuse of Board.
The role of these committees is nature of the Groups business model.
their personal information, by to monitor and provide opinions and introducing greater formalisation of recommendations on the effectiveness the Data Privacy Impact Assessment of the Companys internal controls and process within business operations.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 36 | Managing our risks continued Risk identification The Compliance function provides Policies and procedures advisory guidance to the business and assessment During the year an updated Group-wide including training and updates on Monitoring and quality control policy framework has been implemented, regulatory developments.
with key Policy Statements now overprocedures within front line operations, and clearly prescribed breach reporting arching all other policies within the Group The Assurance function provides and trading entities.
Policy Statements and escalation processes support the oversight through the execution of a first line of defence.
Second line are approved by the Board and are risk based compliance monitoring plan adopted by the respective trading oversight is provided by independent and framework, delivering independent Assurance, Risk and Compliance entity Boards.
assurance by monitoring and reporting functions.
Third line oversight is as to whether regulatory adherence provided by an internal audit function, These Policy Statements are part of the and customer conduct obligations are Groups overall control and governance managed and resourced via a third party being met.
relationship with Grant Thornton UK structure and cover legal and regulatory requirements, culture and values.
The effectiveness of the Groups Fraud detection and prevention control functions is overseen by the also help to communicate and embed The Groups anti-fraud capability key principles and core commitments of Board and its Committees, and those of each of the trading entities.
continues to protect the Group and its the Board to ensure a consistent customers and supports demand for approach to governance is effectively participation by its insurer panel and maintained throughout the Group.
An Internal audit reinsurance providers.
The Groups annual review of Policy Statements is The remit of the internal audit function anti-fraud operations team, Insight, undertaken and the Board approves is covered in the Audit Committee provides comprehensive risk selection material changes.
report on page 76. and loss validation services to the Groups trading activities.
Insight comprises of a Policy Statements are supported by The three lines of defence model seeks dedicated team of new business review appropriate policies, procedures and to ensure that the standards and agents, analysts, intelligence operatives, training material to ensure compliance appetites, as defined by Group policies, claims handlers, former IFED Insurance with legislation and or regulation function as planned and support Fraud Enforcement Department police affecting the trading entities.
Under the three officers including the former head and lines of defence model, independent deputy head of IFED and field based Senior management is responsible for assurance testing and evidence investigators.
The Anti-Fraud Director implementing these supporting policies gathering on aspects of how the is a member of the General Insurance and procedures, with the oversight business is managed is undertaken by Fraud Committee.
functions ensuring operational the internal audit function which reports decisions take into account risk, to the Board via the Audit Committee.
A number of sophisticated identification against appetite, and how this and validation methodologies and can be managed and controlled.
Compliance databases are employed to help prevent The Compliance function within each of potentially fraudulent activity at various the trading entities provides regulatory points in the application, sale and claims risk oversight, and monitors compliance process.
These are also applied to the with the various regulatory and legal detection and prevention of internal obligations of the Group, specifically fraud within business operations.
those of the UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Gibraltar Financial Services Commission GFSC.
This monitoring, together with regular interaction with the business functions, provides input into such areas as training, marketing and the way the trading entities deal with customers, as part of the continuous improvement approach to meeting regulatory obligations.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 37 Risk assessment Brexit risk The Memorandum of Understanding on citizens rights, signed on 29 November The Board undertakes a regular The UK leaving the EU is not likely to 2018, by the Governments of the UK, assessment of the principal risks facing impact the need for UK motorists and Spain and Gibraltar, seeks to ensure the the Group, following reports from the households to obtain insurance and is correct implementation of provisions in Risk Committee, including those that therefore unlikely to significantly affect the Withdrawal Agreement protecting may threaten its business model, future demand for the Groups products.
the rights of EU citizens.
This guarantees performance, solvency or liquidity.
Volatility in the financial markets could EU residents in Gibraltar and EU cross impact the fair value of the Groups The Group considers its current key risk frontier workers the same rights and investments, but is mitigated by the categories, any of which could protections as they currently hold under conservative investment portfolios potentially give rise to significant EU law.
If the UK leaves the EU on demonstrated by the portfolios reputational risk, to be as follows: 29 March 2019 without an agreement, resilience over recent years.
C ommercial performance risk the Group anticipates minimal impact negative impact on the UK economy includes reinsurance risk, market for colleagues.
which could impact the Group in respect risk, pricing risk and reserving risk : of interest rate increases or restrictions The risk of loss resulting from failure to The Group has made preparations to in financing have been mitigated by the meet the Groups strategic objectives ensure policyholders are able to 250m seven year investment grade and deliver the Three Year Plan.
produce proof of motor insurance, in senior bond issue secured this year the form of a green card, when driving which has a fixed rate of interest.
F inancial risk: The risk of loss in Europe in the event of a no deal.
resulting from an inability to meet The assessment of risks associated with financial commitments as they fall Underwriting and pricing agility enables Brexit remains a key focus for the due or from an immediate need to the Group to react to claims inflation as Group, and a working group is in place strengthen the capital position.
a result of Brexit risk impacting repairer to assess the impact of the Brexit networks.
agreement or a no deal scenario.
O perational risk: The risk of loss Consideration has been given to the resulting from inadequate or failed No immediate or short term regulatory impact on areas such as: customers, policies or controls, people, systems change is anticipated in Gibraltar or the contractual relationships with suppliers and external events.
UK as a result of the UK leaving the EU and reinsurers, rights of cross frontier with or without an agreement, and the workers, regulation and legislation.
Risk appetite Group therefore believes that the UK Risk appetite statements form part of leaving the EU is not expected to The UK Government confirmed in March the planning process and express the significantly impact on the Groups 2018 that it will preserve Gibraltar level of risk that the Group is prepared operations or results.
financial services firms current access to to accept to achieve strategic objectives.
the UK markets until 31 December 2020.
Risk appetites are defined by a set of It confirmed that, ahead of this date, it quantitative and qualitative measures.
will work closely with the Government of Gibraltar to design a replacement framework to endure beyond 2020.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 38 | Managing our risks continued Current key risk categories Risks Key monitors Commercial performance risk Trading results are monitored closely to ensure tactical changes are Missing published performance targets implemented as and when required.
Inability to manage reserving and pricing risk Regular internal and external reserve reviews are reported to the board Underwriting of Underwriting combined with monthly management reports.
Transformation projects established to drive claims and cost management activities.
Market risk Constant assessment of market conditions and the implications for assets under management.
Reinsurance risks Underwriting Regular reviews of reinsurance arrangements and the stability of external partners who provide reinsurance programmes.
Adverse impact of legal, tax or regulatory change Ongoing monitoring of changes within the legal and regulatory landscapes together with the maintenance of open and transparent communication with the relevant authorities.
Financial risk Monitoring of cash flow from trading entities, the free cash position of the Insufficient capital to service debt arrangements Group and sufficiency of the Groups borrowing facilities.
Group Insufficient capital to meet Solvency II requirements Management of own funds in accordance with Solvency II regulatory Underwriting requirements in Underwriting.
Monitoring and measurement of risk and capital implications through stress and scenario testing, as captured in Underwritings Own Risk and Solvency Assessment.
Insufficient capital to meet regulatory requirements Annual viability and stress testing against the Groups Three Year Plan.
Retail Operational risk Effective regulatory horizon scanning capability to review the potential Developments and changes in regulation implications to the Group and its trading entities.
Business interruption events as a result of systems, Regular review of resilience risks, contingent back up capability, property or supplier failure Underwriting and Retail system stability and supplier continuity plans.
Information security breaches or cyber crime Constant IT infrastructure monitoring, data assessment and perimeter testing.
Increased investment in information security cyber-crime defences and controls.
Increased exposure to claims fraud leading to Dedicated anti-fraud operations team, Insight, operating an integrated, increased claims related expenditure comprehensive risk selection and loss validation division.
Use of leading anti-fraud system NetReveal, supplied by BAE Systems, driving benefits through analytics and machine learning.
Reliance on third party suppliers to provide customer Ongoing supplier relationship and performance management with regular facing services and technology capability due diligence reviews.
Brexit: Interruptions to the supply chain by EU A working group is in place to assess the risks associated with Brexit.
based suppliers Failure to deliver large change programmes Programme discipline and process controls are supported by an over-arching control framework to underpin effective governance, controls and quality.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 39 External factors affecting the Groups risk profile Factor Impact and mitigation Outlook Economic stress Adverse economic conditions could increase the risk to the strategic The Bank of England has analysed the plans and or reduce the Groups income from investments.
economic effects of the Withdrawal Failure to deliver the Agreement and the consequences of Groups strategy due Whilst the motor insurance industry has historically been relatively leaving the EU without an agreement.
to unforeseen unaffected by economic downturns, as the Group continues to economic changes build its home products and explore diversification, more of its Confirming that although the impact on products could be subject to the negative effects of a sustained the economy cannot be determined in economic downturn.
advance, the Monetary Policy Committee will respond to any material change in the The Group and trading entity Boards regularly review the investment outlook to bring inflation sustainably back portfolios managed in the respective trading entities against the to the 2% target while supporting jobs economic outlook and the Groups risk appetite.
The economic horizon is monitored and assessed against the The remit of the Monetary Policy strategic plan.
Committee continues to be to support the economic policy of the Government, including its objectives for growth and employment.
Regulatory changes A shift in the regulatory landscape could introduce constraints An ongoing FCA review into pricing therefore increasing the risk to income from general insurance and practices to ensure consumers are being Changes to the or an increase in capital requirements.
Equally, however, changes to treated fairly: has resulted in a general regulatory the regulatory landscape could present opportunities for increased insurance market study focusing in 2019 environment which income and reduced capital.
on pricing practices for home and motor inhibit income insurance.
The Group is supporting and generation in the The Group strategy is based on the current regulatory horizon.
engaging with this review, and will closely general insurance Any negative shift in the rules and regulations that apply to general monitor and assess the potential and industry or capital insurance could increase the risk to the Groups commercial plans.
requirements The Group has an effective regulatory horizon scanning capability The Bank of England has confirmed that to review the potential implications for the Group and more the Government plans to negotiate a importantly its trading entities.
In addition the trading entities relationship for financial services based continue to foster good working relationships with their respective on equivalence between UK and the EU.
regulators, and other local authorities, and take the opportunity to embrace change early and, where appropriate, adjust the strategic The UK Government has confirmed that plans to accommodate that change.
Retail is often engaged in it will preserve Gibraltar financial services consultations with the FCA, providing its views on regulatory reform firms current access to the UK market which gives the Group early insight and opportunity to contribute until 31 December 2020: working with towards the shape of future regulation.
Underwriting continues to the Government of Gibraltar to design work closely with the GFSC.
a replacement framework to endure beyond 2020.
Climate change The Groups ability to meet its strategic plans, a key risk, could be Levels of greenhouse gases in the damaged in the event of increased claims frequency and or severity.
atmosphere are reaching record highs, Potential for according to the United Nations Framework increased frequency Underwriting adopts a prudent approach to the risks accepted and Convention on Climate Change driving and severity of claims the pricing strategies used continue to reduce this risk.
In addition long term climate change, sea level rise due to climate the industry wide implications of increased claims as a result and more extreme weather.
change that reduces of climate change is likely to result in premium inflation across the commercial the market.
There are increasing expectations performance of the on regulated firms to enhance their The exposure to this risk increases as the Groups Home portfolio Group approach to managing their risks from grows, as does the resulting impact of extreme hot and cold weather climate change.
However, maintaining the conservative underwriting approach continues to ensure that the Group protects its revenue generation whilst minimising the cost implications for claims.
Vehicle technology Accelerated advances or developments for which the Group is not Interest in vehicle technology is increasing, and innovation prepared could place the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
as the UK Government invests in future mobility solutions.
Advances in vehicle The Group constantly monitors developments to ensure that it technology, such remains informed, embraces innovation and change, and is well Improvements in technology have made it as electric and positioned to adapt its business model as appropriate.
more expensive to repair vehicle damage: autonomous this is expected to be balanced by The Group has become a founder member of the Smart Mobility vehicles, which may automatic breaking and vehicle sensors Living Labs three year shared research programme.
The programme fundamentally making vehicles safer and resulting in will develop, test and validate the impact of new road transport change the nature fewer accidents.
technologies, ensuring the Group is at the forefront of technological of motor insurance advancement.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 40 | Managing our risks continued External factors affecting the Groups risk profile continued Factor Impact and mitigation Outlook Adverse market Increased risk that the Groups market share is impaired resulting in Ongoing challenging market conditions conditions commercial underperformance.
continue with competitive pricing and changing customer behaviour.
Increased The Group constantly monitors the markets in which it operates for competition in the pricing and other changes that could impact its commercial Customer expectations are increasing for insurance market objectives.
The dynamic nature of the Groups ability to rapidly instant results from digital platforms, and changes in adjust pricing strategies ensures the Group remains competitive by personalisation and positive experiences consumer behaviour managing both income generation and policy volumes.
via well defined customer journeys.
impact profitability During the year digital propositions have been enhanced, including the roll out of the mobile app and online portal enhancements for customers, including a new digital claims notification system.
Internal risks Factor Impact and mitigation Outlook Commercial failure The Group either incurs additional expenses or is unable to Market conditions are expected to remain generate sufficient income.
competitive as a result of increased claims Commercial inflation because of the weaker pound performance does The Group, through its governance and oversight functions, coupled increasing the cost of imported parts, and not meet Group with targeted Internal Audit in the respective trading entities, vehicles are becoming more expensive to expectations or the assesses the effectiveness of critical processes and procedures on a repair as they advance technologically.
Three Year Plan regular basis.
These are assessed alongside the risk appetite at both Group and trading entity level through the management reporting that is provided to the Board and its Committees.
This provides oversight of the risks that could impact commercial performance and the successful delivery of the Three Year Plan, facilitating opportunities for management and mitigation.
Underwriting and pricing agility enables the Group to react to external influences, ensuring that it is able to optimise commercial performance.
Embedding and realising efficiencies and benefits from new technology introduced processes for claims handling and policy administration.
This will also continue to enhance and simplify the customer experience and drive more positive outcomes.
Information A major information security cyber event could lead to the Group This year has seen an increased number security not being able to access external data critical to the operation of a of high profile information security cyber exposure modern insurance company and or to generate sales due to a loss of cyber-attacks affecting a range of data or a lack of trust in the Groups ability to protect customer data.
As criminals become more The Group maintains sophisticated and digital propositions grow a digital centric The Group continues to invest in resources, technology, ongoing this risk is expected to increase in 2019. business model training and a culture of compliance, in both the first and second lines, that is increasingly to ensure that it continues to protect itself from the various and exposed to business changing cyber threats.
disruption and data loss Third party failure A supplier, delivering a key service, fails leading to the Group not Ongoing investment in growth may being able to continue to operate and deliver its strategic objectives.
increase the Groups exposure to third The Group relies on party providers as an option to support a large number of The Group has policies and procedures in place to manage and operational deliverables.
external suppliers to monitor the procurement process and contract management in the support operational trading entities which is categorised according to the suppliers risk deliverables profile.
The Group monitors the key risks in each trading entity and the processes in place to ensure that the risk is within appetite.
The Group has a clear view of the risks associated with suppliers, through the interaction that the respective trading entity boards have with senior management.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018
