38 Principal risks MANAGING RISKS TO ACHIEVE OUR STRATEGIC GROWTH TARGETS We focus on key risks whichcould impact on the achievement of our strategic goals and, therefore, on the performance of our business.
To manage the effectiveness of this the Board and Our risk appetite management needto rely on adequate line functions, Responsibility for the level of risk that the Group is willing including monitoring and assurance functions, within to accept is vested in the Hays plc Board.
As such the organisation operates the its risk appetite and strategic objectives, which are then Three Lines of Defence model as a way ofexplaining the mapped against defined impact and likelihood scales.
relationship between these functions and demonstrating From here it is able to determine what is an acceptable how responsibilities are allocated: level of risk.
Hays has a proactive approach to measuring The first line of defence: responsibility to own performance and considers risk as an integral part of decision-making, both about current and future andmanage risk: performance throughout the global businesses.
The second line of defence: responsibility to monitor The principal risks have been mapped through our risk and oversee risk: appetite process in order to identify both position and The third line of defence: functions that provide tolerance levels and to assess the mitigating actions.
Hays operates a measured risk appetite position due to The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Group the nature of the recruitment market, being a cyclical FinanceDirector and comprising senior operational, IT, business and sensitive to macroeconomic conditions, legal and finance representatives, assists in the strategic which results in a lack of forward visibility of fees and management and development of risk in the Group.
increases the overall risk environment.
In addition, to further enhance risk oversight and Risk attributes management, a Chief Risk Officer was appointed When considering risk appetite the Board considers this in August 2018. in terms of the following attributes: Experienced and stable management team globally: How we monitor our progress three lines of defence Strong balance sheet, including the level of operationalgearing: and Board & Audit Committee Clear and open communication channels.
Risk governance identifying, evaluating and managing risk Management Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
This has been designed to assist the Board in making better, more risk-informed, strategic decisions with a view to creating and protecting shareholder value.
Inpractice, the Board delegates the task of implementing First line of defence: Second line of Third line of defence: its policies onrisk and control to management and needs Management Controls defence: Internal Audit to assure itself on an ongoing basis that management is Policies and Financial Control External Advisers Procedures Security Regulatory Reviews responding appropriately to these risks and controls.
Internal Control Risk Management Ownership andresponsibility foroperating risk KPIs Compliance management and controls is vested in management Group Risk Committee by the Board, and management needs to provide leadership and direction to the employees to ensure the organisations overall risk-taking activity is managed Ownership & Monitor Independent inrelation to theagreed level of risk appetite.
Management & Oversight Assurance Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 39 Risk identification and impact Stress testing Hays principal risksare analysed The Board approves an annual budget and reviews on a gross pre-mitigation and monthly management reports and quarterly forecasts.
net post-mitigation basis The output of the planning and budgeting processes has been used to perform a sensitivity analysis to the Groups The Management Board oversees an enterprise risk cash flow to model the potential effects should principal management framework, which allows for a holistic, risks actually occur either individually or in unison.
top-down and bottom-up view of key risks facing the business.
These are recorded in a Group risk register, The sensitivity analysis included loss of business arising which is reviewed at least annually by the Management from a prolonged global downturn and an assessment Board and submitted to the Board thereafter to enable it of arange of possible outcomes arising from the UKs to carry out its risk oversight responsibility.
This exercise vote to leave the European Union.
involves a current and forward look at various risks Set against these downside risks, the Board considered affecting the business and prioritises them according key mitigating factors including the geographic diversity torisk magnitude and likelihood.
Risks covered include of the Group, its balanced business model across operational, financial and reputational risks, as well as Temporary, Permanent and Contract recruitment services, compliance and people-related risks.
Each risk is assigned and the significant working capital inflows which arise in an owner with current and future risk mitigation periods of severe downturn, particularly in the Temporary procedures detailed, with the continuing monitoring recruitment business, thus protecting liquidity as was the of these undertaken on an ongoing basis.
case during the global financial crisis of 2008 09.
Viability statement In addition, the Groups history of strong cash generation, In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate tight cost control and flexible workforce management Governance Code 2016, the Directors have assessed the provides further protection.
The Group also has in place prospects of the Group over a period longer than the a210 million revolving credit facility with a suite of banks 12months from the date of approval of the financial until 2020, and the latest actuarial valuation of its defined statements.
benefit pension scheme maintains cash outflows broadly at their existing level.
The Directors believe that a three-year period ending 30 June 2021 is the most relevant time period over which Confirmation of longer-term viability to provide the viability statement, being supported by Based on the above assessment, the Directors confirm that theappraisal of the principal risks and mitigating internal they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will controls.
This allows the Directors to assess and conclude be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as that the Group will be able to operate within its existing they fall due over the three-year period to30 June 2021. bank covenants and maintain appropriate bank facilities to meet its funding requirements over a three-year period, Going concern being backed by the 210 million revolving credit facility The Groups business activities, together with the factors in place until April 2020, which the Company anticipates likely to affect its future development, performance and no problem in renewing and fully intends to do so.
position are set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial This three-year period also reflects our three-year planning position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position cycle, which covers the same period, and considers the fast are described in the Financial Review, with details of the moving nature of the industry.
As such, collectively these Groups treasury activities, long-term funding arrangements factors allow the directors a reasonable expectation, and exposure to financial risk included innotes 18 to 20 predicated on the basis that there are no unforeseen to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
events outside of the Groups control that inhibit the The Group has sufficient financial resources which, Companys ability to continue trading, and that using together with internally generated cash flows, will athree-year period itis possible to form a reasonable continue to provide sufficient sources of liquidity to fund expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability.
its current operations, including its contractual and Process to assess the Groups prospects commercial commitments and any proposed dividends.
The Group istherefore well-placed to manage its business As in prior years, the Board undertook a strategic risks.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed business review in the current year taking into account the judgment at the time of approving the financial the Groups current position and the potential impact statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the of the principal risks set out on pages 40 to 42 of Group has adequate resources to continue in operational the Annual Report.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they In addition and in making this statement, the Board continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
facing the Group, including those that would threaten Risk trends theGroups business model, future performance and liquidity.
While the review has considered all the principal The ongoing review of the Groups principal risks includes risks identified by the Group, the resilience of the Group how these risks evolve.
Changes in the trend direction to the occurrence of these risks in severe yet plausible ofour principal risks are noted against each risk on the scenarios has been evaluated.
following pages of this Report.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 40 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 1.
Reliance on technology business exposure Movement in year Movement in year Movement in year Movement in year Movement in year Risk description Risk description Risk description Risk description Risk description The performance of the Group is significantly impacted by changes The Group faces competition from the increasing use of digital The Group is reliant on its ability to recruit, The Group operates in 33 countries, with Our dependence on technology in our tounderlying economic and geopolitical activity, the levels of business technologies for recruitment services and a growing trend towards develop and retain staff to protect the each operating its own legislative, regulative, day-to-day business means that systems confidence as businesses consider Permanent and Temporary hiring outsourced recruitment models with associated margin pressures, business it has today and to deliver its future compliance and tax rules, especially failure due to technical issues or cyber decisions and levels of candidate confidence, which impact their which may impact materially on the business should Hays not growth plans, especially internationally, for Temporary workers, with any attack may have a significant impact on propensity to change jobs, particularly in our three biggest businesses continue to take appropriate actions and respond effectively.
bothat a business director, manager and non-compliance increasing the Groups our operations and ability to deliver our in the UK, Germany and Australia.
Itsstrategy is to grow and exposure to potential legal, financial services if it continued for a number of days Social media and internet-enabled digital dynamics and recruitment nurture talent internally into senior roles and reputational risk.
and, as such, could negatively impact our Brexit specific: The Brexit decision, coupled with the political value chain disintermediation, amongst other things, have increased wherever possible.
environment in the UK, continues to increase the level of uncertainty the risk to the business model over the course of the year.
and therefore increases the risk of negatively impacting the trading The global threat of cyber attack continues performance in our UKbusiness, as clients have become more to increase over the course of the year.
Risk impact Risk impact Risk impact Risk impact Risk impact Financial Operational People Compliance Operational Financial Financial Financial Financial Reputational Reputational Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Hays has continued to diversify its operations to include a balance of Hays monitors industry trends and opportunities, including social Hays provides a defined and sustainable Compliance processes and monitoring The Groups technology strategy is continually both Temporary and Permanent recruitment services to private and media and insourcing, and continues to invest in our online presence career development path for new hires, aretailored to specific specialisms, ensuring reviewed to ensure that the systems it public sector markets, and operates across 33 markets and 20 sector to provide a high-quality customer experience.
starting with a structured induction additional focus is given to higher-risk operates across the Group support its specialisms.
Progress is being made to further diversify the business programme and ongoing training as they specialisms such as Education and strategic direction.
Our key relationships such as with LinkedIn, SEEK and Xing increase to reduce the Groups reliance on the UK, Germany and Australia, advance their careers, supported by Healthcare in the UK, Construction & our exposure to online professional networking and recruitment Ongoing asset life-cycle management which currently represent 66% of the Groups netfees.
formalised performance and career tracking.
Property in Australia and specialised portals and enhance our value proposition to clients and candidates.
programmes mitigate risks of hardware corporate contracts through Hays Hays cost base is highly variable and carefully managed to align with Development Centres focus on the progress and software obsolescence.
Our expert and specialist consultants are trained in utilising social business activity, and can be focused and scaled accordingly to react of high-potential individuals, providing further media and other digital technologies to enhance their day-to-day Technology systems are housed in various to the individual markets.
Temporary recruitment tends to be more development opportunities and also helping Employees receive training in respect of activities in providing the best quality candidates to our clients.
data centres and the Group has capacity to resilient in times of economic uncertainty ordownturn.
to identify any talent gaps and training needs.
the operating standards applicable to their cope with a data centres loss through the A new International Leadership Management role, with additional support provided by We continue to leverage our broad geographical and sectoral footprint Hays is highly cash-generative, requiring low levels of asset investment.
establishment of disaster recovery sites.
Programme focuses on senior leadership and compliance functions, regional legal teams to win and maintain a significant number of multispecialism contracts Cash collection is a priority, and the Group has made appropriate These are physically based in separate development and is aligned with the Groups and, where necessary, external advisers.
with large corporate organisations, which has strengthened our investment in its credit control and working capital management locations to the ongoing operations, business strategy.
relationship with these clients and increased our share of their processes, resulting in the elimination of Group net debt last year All staff receive regular training to ensure that intrinsically linked to continuity plans.
and a year-end net cash positive position last year and this year.
Overall, our remuneration packages are legal andcompliance updates are understood Across the regions we have established competitive, including an employee benefit and applied.
Interritories where legislation Significant investment made in recent years has enhanced data In the run up to and the immediate aftermath of the EU referendum, dedicated security teams in order to ensure programme, together with a long-term sets out additional compliance requirements, analytics and significantly improved our approach to, and engagement we saw a significant reduction in UK activity and thus fees and that the systems are best protected from incentive scheme that is offered to broadly specialists are employed.
The initiative is overseen by the Group Data profits.
While this has stabilised, we continue to face significant unauthorised access, both externally and 350 senior managers, which encourages a Marketing Director.
potential uncertainty over the next few years.
Dedicated compliance auditors conduct internally, and including ensuring that antiperformance-led culture and aids retention.
sample checks to ensure that the appropriate virus software is in place and up-to-date, Succession plans identify future potential candidate vetting checks and due diligence with regular testing of these environments leaders of the business and produce obligations are carried out in line with legal by external providers.
individual development plans in which and contractual requirements.
We use external advisers to perform regular to harness and cultivate talent.
The Group holds all standard business external and internal physical and logical The Groups standard employment insurance cover, including employers penetration tests on all major systems and contracts include notice periods and liability, public liability and professional operations and implement any required non-solicitation provisions in the event indemnity insurance.
improvements resulting from such tests as of an employee leaving.
part of a continuous improvement process.
Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 41 1.
Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 42 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 6.
Contracts Movement in year Movement in year Risk description Risk description The business works with personal data inall33 countries on a daily The Group enters into contractual arrangements with clients, some of basis under a variety of laws and regulations.
Amaterial data breach which can be on onerous terms and or impacted bylocal regulatory could expose theGroupto potential legal, financial and reputational requirements, especially in relation to Temp Contracting markets.
risks inthe form of penalties andloss of business.
Hays preparations for the introduction of theGeneral Data Protection Regulation GDPR in EU countries began over 18 months ago.
While well-prepared for its introduction, its complexity and variance from other privacy-related regulations in the non-EU territories in which we operate have increased risk in this area.
Risk impact Risk impact Compliance Operational Financial Financial Reputational Reputational Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Robust procedures for processing, storing and transfer ofpersonal During contract negotiations management seek to minimise risk dataare in place across the Group, on both aphysical and logical basis.
andensure that the nature of risks and their potential impact isunderstood.
Comprehensive data protection and information security policies and procedures are in place across the Group and, where data protection Our global legal team has the depth of knowledge and experience and privacy legislation allows, protective email monitoring to enable them toadvise management on the level of risk presented programmes are undertaken to address potential areas of concern, in increasingly onerous contracts, with clear guidelines in operation.
to best protect our confidential information and candidates The Group Finance Director reviews all commercial contracts with personal data.
onerous non-standard terms in accordance with the Groups risk Attention has been focused in this area, with the increased threat appetite.
In addition, the Groups Insurance Manager reviews onerous of cyber attacks globally, and security vulnerability is assessed contracts and, where necessary, engages with insurance providers to as part of the ongoing IT strategy across the Group.
ensure that risks are covered.
We use external advisers to perform regular external and internal Reviews are performed on a risk basis across key contracts to identify physical and logical penetration tests on all major systems and compliance and agree improvements to the way in which wedeliver operations and implement any required improvements resulting services toclients.
fromsuch tests as part of a continuous improvement process.
Assurance work is undertaken in key markets by Internal Audit to Significant work was undertaken to prepare for the introduction ensure contractual obligations are appropriately managed.
Annual training programmes have also been updated to reflect the new regulations, where relevant.
Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
