Strategic report | Sustainability Our emissions from the consumption of Emissions FTE tCO e 2 electricity scope 2 declined 3% despite the Improving energy efficiency expansion of many of our facilities.
This is due 18.06 to energy efficiency measures that were 16.88 implemented throughout the year.
This year, we completed several projects that improved our energy efficiency, Our emissions per full-time employee FTE most notably: increased 7% in 2018 compared with 2017.
This is primarily a result of the reduction We completed upgrades to building in the number of our employees, as well management systems BMS for as operation expansions.
buildings within our facilities in Jordan and Algeria.
The upgrades resulted in As part of our commitment to refine the 2017 2018 electricity consumption reductions of accuracy of our environmental reporting, 18,600 kilowatt hours kWh in Jordan we are now measuring indirect emissions and 11,000 kWh in Algeria.
resulting from waste management and water consumption scope 3.
Improvements to our The installation of Light Emitting reporting will enable us to achieve greater Diode LED fixtures across six efficiency in the future.
of our sites resulted in electricity consumption decreases of around 1.2 million kWh.
The refurbishment of our boiler and Year-on-year change by emission source energy recovery infrastructure in one of our facilities in Tunisia led to Europe 2017 335,000 kWh of energy savings.
and 2018 ROW MENA 2017 2018 USA 2017 2018 0K 5K 10K 15K 20K 25K 30K 35K 40K 45K 50K 55K 60K 65K Emissions tCOe Electricity Diesel Gasoil F-Gas Other fuels Natural gas Owned Vehicles Petrol Gasoline Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 53 Sustainability continued Non-financial disclosures The table below summarises our position on matters relevant to the Non-Financial Reporting Directive, in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 sections 414C 7 b.
All references made are to publicly accessible information.
Position, performance and impact Further information We operate in a competitive, highly-regulated industry, Annual Report, page 14 Our business model across many markets.
Our diversified business model enables us to respond to the many opportunities and challenges we face, whilst delivering value for our customers, patients, employees, shareholders and our wider communities.
Our risk management framework is designed to ensure we Annual Report, Risk section, pages 58 to 60 Principal risks take a comprehensive view of risk.
This includes non-financial risks that may impact our business and stakeholders.
Environmental Our approach is to identify and capitalise on opportunities Annual Report, Monitoring and minimising our matters to improve our energy efficiency and address our environmental impacts, page 52 environmental impacts.
Principal risk: Annual Report, Reputation, page 58 In support of this approach, we are developing an Environmental Policy to identify risks and set KPIs.
Employees Our people are our most valuable asset and the driving force Annual Report, Upholding high standards of anti-corruption behind our success.
We are committed to investing in the and ethical conduct, page 44 development of our workforce and in protecting their health Code of Conduct: https: www.
We have around 8,400 employees across the US, and-compliance code-of-conduct MENA, Europe and ROW.
Annual Report, Our people, page 50 Code of Conduct Occupational Health, Safety, Energy, Environment Policy: Occupational Health, Safety, Energy, Environment Policy https: www.
pdf Principal risk: Annual Report, Organisational development, page 58 Our CSR activities address social challenges primarily across Annual Report, Supporting our patients and communities, Social matters four themes: page 46 Ensuring access to medicine Annual Report, Addressing drug shortages in the US, Supporting education pages 22 and 46 Raising awareness of healthcare needs https: www.
com about  Empowering women Animal Testing Policy Statement: https: www.
com Our position on addressing drug shortages sustainability  Animal Testing Policy Principal risk: Annual Report, Reputation, page 58 We respect and uphold the principles of the Universal Annual Report, Operating responsibly and ethically, page 44 Respect for Declaration of Human Rights both within Hikma and across human rights Modern Slavery Policy Statement: https: www.
about  Code of Conduct Use of products for capital punishment: https: www.
Modern Slavery Policy Statement com about   position on the use of our products for capital capital-punishment punishment Principal risk: Annual Report, Reputation, page 58 Our Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Annual Report, Upholding high standards of anti-corruption Anti-bribery CREC leads our efforts to strengthen anti-bribery and and ethical conduct, page 44 and corruption corruption ABC policies and manage associated risks.
Code of Conduct As a publicly-listed company on the London Stock Exchange Principal risk: Annual Report, Ethics and compliance, page 59 LSE, we abide by the regulations of the UK Listing Authority.
We operate in compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA and the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, as well as local laws and regulations.
Code of Conduct We monitor the position, performance and impact of Hikma Annual Report, Environmental matters: Carbon emissions Non-financial KPIs across a wide range of financial and non-financial KPIs.
Scope 1, 2 and 3, pages 52 and 53 Non-financial KPIs are used to measure progress towards Annual report, Employees: Engagement and Enablement, page 19 our strategic priorities see page 18, our exposure to risks see page 55, and are in place in other areas throughout the organisation as part of Hikmas long-term sustainable growth strategy and our commitment to helping people and improving the communities in which we operate.
54 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Risk management Risk management Managing the uncertainties In 2018, we embedded risk processes into our management practices and developed a range of enterprise-wide key risk indicators to monitor our risk exposure.
56 Risk management framework 57 Risk management activities 58 Principal risks and uncertainties 61 Going concern 61 Longer-term viability H Hi ik kma ma P Ph ha ar rma mac ce eu ut tic ica al ls s P PL LC C | | A An nn nu ua al l Rep Repor ort t 2 20 018 18 55 Risk management continued Risk management framework Risk governance The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups overall approach Risk context to risk management and internal control.
On behalf of the Board, the We develop, manufacture and market a broad range of branded and Audit Committee oversees risk management for the Group as part of non-branded generic pharmaceutical products across the US, MENA its responsibilities for internal control.
We are also a leading licensing partner in MENA.
The Audit Committee reviews the material risks facing the Group taking Risks are inherent in our business.
They may be related to our into account different sources of assurance, including executive risk strategy and delivery of our objectives, the fundamental activities management, internal audit and external audit.
The Chair of the Audit and processes of the organisation, meeting the expectations of our Committee is a standing member of the Compliance, Responsibility stakeholders, or through key relationships and dependencies.
and Ethics Committee CREC ensuring connection between the Board committees with risk oversight.
The Our markets section on pages 12 and 13 and the Our business model section on pages 14 and 15 provide an overview of the external Internal audit provides independent assurance of the Groups risk and internal context for risk management at Hikma.
management and internal control systems.
For more details on our internal audit approach see page 75.
Risk strategy Effective management of risk is fundamental to delivering long-term The ERM office enables and drives the implementation of effective risk success for the Group.
We operate an Enterprise Risk Management management practices by management and partners with global risk ERM framework to ensure that we are comprehensive in our approach.
owners in assessing and reporting their risks.
This provides an informed and thorough view on risk to support our decision-making and enables alignment, effectiveness and efficiency Compliance and control functions are in place across the organisation of our strategic, tactical, operational and compliance processes.
The that have specialist expertise in managing risk in particular areas.
holistic approach ensures we fulfil our obligations and have integrated assurance that our activities are appropriately controlled.
The CEO and Executive Committee have direct ownership of risk management for the Group and risk considerations are incorporated Risk appetite into their management responsibilities and decision-making.
The Board determines the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take and communicates this through the Group risk appetite.
As part of the risk governance framework, senior executives are The risk appetite outlines expected management approaches and details assigned global risk owner responsibility for each of the principal risks.
limits and tolerances on risk exposure for each of the principal risks.
It forms the foundation of the ERM framework, guides management Global risk owners coordinate risk management activities across the decision-making across the Group and is reviewed and updated annually.
organisation with divisional risk owners and management teams to ensure risk exposure is managed appropriately and in accordance to the risk appetite.
Roles Responsibilities Board of Directors Define and communicate the Groups risk appetite Determine principal risks and uncertainties Effectiveness of the risk management framework Review risk management key outcomes Audit Committee Oversee design and implementation of risk management framework and report to the Board Review risk and assurance reports from management, internal audit and external audit Consider risks highlighted by the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Full committee responsibilities available on page 71 Internal audit Provide independent assurance of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems CEO and Executive Committee Review regular risk and assurance reports to ensure Group operates within risk appetite Take enterprise view of risk exposure, consider interrelation of risks and significant emerging risks Make decisions on prioritisation for risk response ERM office Enable and drive the implementation of effective risk management practices by management and assist global risk owners in assessing and reporting their risks Compliance and control functions Develop, implement and monitor compliance to enterprise-wide and functional policies and standards Global risk owners Implement effective risk management practices to identify, assess and manage risks within the business Coordinate risk management activities across the organisation Report on risk management status Divisional risk owners Own and manage risks and management teams Implement Group-wide policies and procedures Implement and monitor internal controls 56 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Risk management Risk management activities Risk management activities occur at all levels of the organisation.
The risk governance framework provides structure for these activities to ensure consistency of approach, alignment to the risk appetite and monitoring of our risk exposure.
The ERM office coordinates regular risk assessments with global risk owners to review management of existing risks, and to identify new and emerging risks.
These assessments are consolidated through a risk management process coordinated by the ERM office and reported to the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee by the global risk owners.
In addition to the core reporting and communication processes described, key risk management activities during the year included: Key risk management activities in 2018 Brexit Our risk assessment for the UK withdrawal from the European Union considers different Brexit scenarios and the wide range of implications that may impact our business.
Our cross-functional reviews continue to assess that the exposure for Hikma is low and manageable.
We have a small footprint in the UK and limited dependence on movement of people, goods, services and capital between the UK and Europe.
We continue to monitor the situation Invested in as it develops and assess implications for our business.
technology solutions to enable integration of different layers of assurance and Expanded set of Priorities for 2019 control enterprise-wide key In addition to our core risk management activities, in 2019 we will risk indicators for continue to strengthen our global risk management process with a ongoing monitoring focus on simplification.
We will further roll out our risk management of risk exposure technology, develop our risk culture, and reinforce partnerships between compliance and control functions to enhance our risk management capability and bring greater assurance for the Group.
Reviewed and updated the risk management framework, risk appetite, and principal risks Restructured organisation to move ERM office into new Business Operations Division Developed significant risk event scenarios Our key risk indicators help us monitor our based on principal risks for stress and risk exposure and ensure we are operating sensitivity analysis, in line with our risk appetite.
and for longer-term viability assessment see page 61 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 57 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties The Group faces risks from a range of sources that could have a material impact on our financial commitments and ability to trade in the future.
The Board of Directors has performed a robust assessment to determine the principal risks for the Group considering our risk context and with input from executive management.
Effectively managing these risks is directly linked to the performance of our strategic KPIs and the delivery of the strategic priorities we have outlined on pages 18 and 19.
Our principal risks are set out below with examples of management actions that help to control the risk.
The Board recognises that certain risk factors that influence these risks are outside the control of management.
The Board is satisfied that the principal risks are being managed appropriately and consistently with the target risk appetite.
The set of principal risks should not be considered as an exhaustive list of all the risks the Group faces.
Industry earnings What does the risk cover?
Management actions The commercial viability of the industry and business model we Securing key talent to manage complex commercial environment and develop our business operate may change significantly as a result of political action, Growth and expansion in existing markets with new products and in new therapeutic areas economic factors, societal pressures, regulatory interventions or Portfolio management programmes to focus on strategic products that support revenue, changes to participants in the value chain of the industry.
profit and margin targets Development of capacity and diversification of capability through differentiated technology Capital investment in the countries in which we operate to ensure continued market access Active product life cycle and pricing management Continuous alignment of commercial and R&D organisations to identify market opportunities and meet demand through internal portfolio Collaboration with external partners for development and in-licensing partnerships Product pipeline What does the risk cover?
Management actions Identifying, developing and registering new products that meet Align selection process for pipeline products to ensure optimal use of our expansive market needs to provide continuous source of future growth.
global product portfolio with increased focus on specialty products with high value and differentiation Strategic oversight of pipeline delivery through dedicated global project management office Product-related acquisitions to bolster pipeline Third-party pharmaceutical product specialists brought in to assist in the development of manufacturing processes for new generic products Organisational development What does the risk cover?
Management actions Developing, maintaining and adapting organisational structures, Strengthening teams with key talent appointed to fill strategic regional and global positions management processes and controls, and talent pipeline to Deployment of Group-wide human capital management system enable effective delivery by the business in the face of rapid and Developing global programmes that attract, manage and develop talent within the organisation constant internal and external change.
Ongoing updates to organisation design, structures and accountabilities to maintain empowerment in decision-making and bring appropriate level of governance Reputation What does the risk cover?
Management actions Building and maintaining trusting and successful partnerships Internal and external monitoring of issues that may impact reputation with our many stakeholders relies on developing and sustaining Increasing investment in corporate social responsibility initiatives including sustainability our reputation as one of our most valuable assets.
reporting Establishment and development of strategic industry and community partnerships Communication and engagement programmes on appropriate use of products Strengthening communication and corporate affairs capabilities in our core geographies 58 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties continued Ethics and compliance What does the risk cover?
Management actions Maintaining a culture underpinned by ethical decision-making, Board level oversight from the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee see pages with appropriate internal controls to ensure staff and third 79 and 80 for details parties comply with our Code of Conduct, associated principles Code of Conduct approved by the Board, translated into seven languages and rolled out and standards, as well as all applicable legislation.
to all staff Active participation in international anti-corruption initiatives Anti-bribery and corruption, sales and marketing, and other compliance programmes implemented and monitored through internal compliance assessments Implementation of third-party due diligence and oversight programme Information, technology and infrastructure What does the risk cover?
Management actions Ensuring integrity, confidentiality and resilience of data, securing IT organisational structure designed to enable coordinated, consistent and comprehensive information stored and or processed internally or externally, enterprise approach maintaining and developing technology systems that enable Industry-standard information security solutions and best practice processes adopted and business processes, and in ensuring infrastructure supports the adapted for local and Group requirements organisation effectively.
Cyber-risk activity monitored and changes implemented as necessary to combat evolving threats Partnership established with strategic third parties to implement and maintain a robust Group-wide information security framework Investment in enterprise-wide standardisation initiative incorporating data management, access and process control, and risk management Legal, regulatory and intellectual property What does the risk cover?
Management actions Adapting to changes in laws, regulations and their application, Continuous assessment of developments in legal and regulatory frameworks and impact managing litigation, governmental investigations, sanctions, on the organisation contractual terms and conditions, and potential business Internal communication and training on policies and processes drives awareness and disruptions.
understanding and builds a compliance culture External advice procured to provide independent services and ensure highest standards Strengthened experience and capability for managing intellectual property matters Inorganic growth What does the risk cover?
Management actions Identifying, accurately pricing and or realising expected benefits Extensive due diligence of each acquisition in partnership with external support, including from acquisitions or divestments, licensing, or other business financial and legal advisers, investment banks, and industry specialists in order to development activities.
strategically identify, value, and execute transactions Executive Committee review of major acquisitions before they are considered by the Board The Board spends a significant amount of time reviewing major acquisitions to ensure strategic alignment Dedicated integration project teams led by the business head responsible Post-acquisition performance financial and non-financial monitored closely to ensure integration and delivery on business plan Post-transaction reviews highlight opportunities to improve effectiveness of processes Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 59 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued Supply chain and active pharmaceutical ingredient API sourcing What does the risk cover?
Management actions Maintaining continuity of supply of finished product and Continuity of API supply maintained for high-value products through alternative API managing cost, quality and appropriate oversight of third parties suppliers, stocking strategies, and supply chain modelling in our supply chain.
Rigorous selection process for API suppliers and focus on building long-term supply contracts Vertically integrated plant in Jordan to synthesise selected strategic injectable APIs Strengthening trade compliance capability to ensure compliance and drive efficiency Programmes rolled out across the Group to ensure compliance with serialisation requirements for US, Europe and MENA Crisis response and continuity management What does the risk cover?
Management actions Preparedness, response, continuity and recovery from crisis Continued strengthening of central oversight of systems, processes, and capabilities to events, such as natural catastrophe, economic turmoil, enhance our Group-wide resilience and crisis preparedness operational issues, political crisis, and regulatory intervention.
Updated crisis management framework to enhance our ability to respond effectively to crises, and to expedite the restoration of critical processes after disruption Identified key third parties involved in preparedness, response and recovery with updated framework Corporate insurance programme aligned to ensure appropriate coverage of high-impact, low-likelihood events Product quality and safety What does the risk cover?
Management actions Maintaining compliance with current Good Practices for Quality culture driven throughout the organisation by global quality initiatives, and regularly Manufacturing cGMP, Laboratory cGLP, Distribution reinforced by communication from senior executives cGDP and Pharmacovigilance cGVP by staff, and ensuring Global implementation of quality systems that ensure valid consistent manufacturing compliance is maintained by all relevant third parties involved in processes leading to the production of quality products these processes.
Facilities maintained as inspection-ready for assessment by relevant regulators Documented procedures continuously improved and regular staff training Continued environment and health certifications Global pharmacovigilance programme in place Financial control and reporting What does the risk cover?
Management actions Effectively managing treasury activities, tax position, income, Extensive financial control procedures implemented and assessed annually as part of the expenditure, assets and liabilities, and debtors, and reporting financial compliance monitoring programme accurately and in a timely manner in compliance with statutory Network of banking partners maintained for lending and deposits requirements and accounting standards.
Management monitors debtor payments and takes precautionary measures and action where necessary Selected hedging of exchange rate and interest rate exposure External advice to help manage tax exposures and upgraded internal tax control systems 60 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Risk management Going concern These various assessments are presented to the Audit Committee and Board of Directors.
The Board also receives regular updates on A full assessment of the Groups financial position is used to assess operational, strategic and financial matters from executives.
the going concern position, including the following matters as at end of 2018 : Assumptions Financial modelling for the business plan and therefore the viability Cash flow: Net cash flow from operating activities was $430 million.
assessment is subject to a number of assumptions related to: Net debt: The Groups overall net debt position was $361 million 0.66 times EBITDA.
introduction and commercialisation of new products Available borrowing capacity: The Group has $1,456 million of market share and product demand rates undrawn short-term and long-term banking facilities, in addition to foreign exchange rates $268 million of unutilised import and export financing limits.
These continuation of elevation of certain product prices facilities are well-diversified across the subsidiaries of the Group and political and social stability in the markets are with a number of financial institutions.
ability to re-finance existing debt on similar terms Forecasting: The Groups forecasts, taking into account reasonable cash flow generation from newly acquired businesses possible changes in trading performance, facility renewal ability to increase operational efficiency and reduce central costs sensitivities, and maturities of long-term debt, show that the Group effective tax rate being within the current guidance range should be able to operate well within the levels of its facilities and their related covenants.
Stress testing and sensitivity analysis Management identified several realistic and severe risk scenarios The analysis shows that Hikma is well-placed to manage its business that could impact the business adversely and modelled the impact and financial risks successfully despite current uncertainties and of these over the forecast period.
The risk scenarios were chosen confirms that the going concern basis should be used in preparing considering the Groups strategic objectives and principal risks and the financial statements.
were defined with management input, using real-world examples and the financial modelling assumptions listed above.
Realistic but extremely severe adjustments were further applied to the financial Longer-term viability models for sensitivity analysis: In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the longerScenario 1: significant adverse changes to the pricing environment term viability of the Group is assessed for a period longer than the in the US principal risk: industry earnings 12 months required by the going concern statement.
This assessment Scenario 2: failure of pipeline to deliver strategic new products takes into account our current position and prospects, our principal principal risk: product pipeline risks and uncertainties see pages 58 to 60, and the assumptions that Scenario 3: prolonged regulator-imposed restriction of one of our are part of our financial modelling.
major US FDA-inspected manufacturing plants principal risk: product quality and safety Viability period Scenario 4: escalation of political or social instability in one of The assessment of the viability of the Group is over a period of three our major MENA markets principal risk: crisis response and years, ending on 31 December 2021.
This is the timeframe for continuity management acquisitions and business development opportunities to become Scenario 5: long-term shortage of API for a strategic product integrated into our business, and for pipeline products to contribute principal risk: supply chain and API as marketed products.
Our forecasts are more accurate in the near termthan in the long term and so the limitation also applies to our The assessment shows that although the risk scenarios are severe viability assessments.
events they do not threaten the viability of Hikma.
The assessment and analysis did not rely on management actions that could be taken Assessment of position and prospects in the circumstances to reduce the impact and consequences of the The position and prospects of the Group are assessed at Executive risk events.
Such actions, and the ongoing implementation of the ERM Committee meetings and at the end of the financial year.
The programme and investment in infrastructure and change initiatives are assessments consider strategic and operational updates from each anticipated to continue to enhance organisational resilience and member of the Executive Committee, including review of the principal support longer-term viability.
risks to the industry and business set out on pages 58 to 60, financial reporting and forecasting from the Chief Financial Officer, and through The outcome of these various quantitative and qualitative assessments the development of a business plan.
The business plan takes into leads management to believe that Hikma is resilient to risk event account our current position, specific risks and uncertainties facing the shocks.
This is largely as a result of our financial position in particular business and known changes to our organisation and business model.
our strong balance sheet and low levels of debt and is supported by the fact that our business is well-diversified through geographic spread, The Executive Committee assesses the future strategic positioning product diversity, and large customer and supplier base see the of Hikma as a company in the context of the changing macroeconomic Our markets pages 12 and 13 and the Our business model pages and healthcare environment.
Aspects of this analysis is shown in The 14 and 15 sections for details.
global context see page 12 and Key industry trends see page 13.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 61 Corporate governance During the year, we continued to advance our Hikma values, which are integrity, respect, excellence and transparency.
63 Message from our Chair 64 Corporate governance at a glance 66 Board of Directors 68 Executive Committee 69 Governance report 73 Committee reports 81 Remuneration report 105 Directors report 62 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018
