Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Description and potential impact Risk: Changes in The Group generates the majority of its revenues from its operations located government spending in the UK and the USA.
A reduction in UK or US government infrastructure spending, particularly in relation to national roads infrastructure in the UK, plans could reduce demand for our products and services.
This includes the impact of Brexit which is difficult to determine.
The financial burden on the governments of both jurisdictions from Trend: economic downturn may lead to reduced spending in the principal markets in which the Group operates.
Slightly higher Description and potential impact Risk: Changes in global The Group operates in a range of end-user markets around the world and may be affected by political, economic or regulatory developments in any of outlook and geopolitical these countries.
environment Material adverse changes in the political and economic environments in the countries in which we operate, have the potential to put at risk our ability to execute our strategy.
Trend: As an international group operating in seven countries and selling into Slightly higher numerous others the impact of Brexit is difficult to quantify.
Risk: Increase in Description and potential impact Increased volatility, uncertainty and slowdown in our markets could result in competitive pressure increased prices and the emergence of new technologies, leading to a loss of customers and or pricing pressures leading and as a consequence a loss of sales and reduced profits.
The impact of a no deal Brexit may lead to a change in trade tarfiffs and Trend: or a weakening of sterling, causing a resultant increase in prices for raw materials.
Slightly higher Risk: Product failure Description and potential impact The Group operates in infrastructure markets where it is critical that its products meet customer and legislative requirements and where the consequences of product failure are potentially serious.
Significant product failure arising from component defects or warranty issues may require remediation including the replacement of defective Trend: components or complete products, resulting in direct financial costs to the Group and or wider reputational risk.
No change Description and potential impact Risk: Contractual Failure The Group delivers its commitments to its customers through a variety of contractual arrangements of both a short and medium-term nature.
Weaknesses in the contract tendering process, inappropriate pricing, misalignment of contract terms, ineffective contract management or failure to comply with contractual conditions could result in loss of revenues, pressure on operating margins and wider reputational damage to the Group.
Trend: The availability of debt finance to some of our markets sectors may change No change as lenders appetite for risk decreases.
Description and potential impact Risk: Supply chain The Groups businesses depend on the availability and timely delivery of raw materials and purchased components, which could be affected by disruption deficiency in its supply chain.
A small number of businesses use supply chains from both the Far East and the USA, and there remains a possibility of potential disruption at UK sea ports in the period following Brexit.
Supply chain failures as a result of performance, cost, quality and or insolvency Trend: may have an adverse impact on the Groups production capacity and lead to an inability to meet customer requirements, resulting in reduction in revenues, Sightly higher potential loss of market share and possible reputational damage.
36 Stock Code HILS Commercial & Commercial & Commercial & Operational Economic Economic Financial Financial Financial Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Portfolio management Geographic expansion Target returns and leverage Entrepreneurial culture Link to strategy Mitigation Our existing entity portfolio contains a diversity of product, market and territory and we will continue with this approach.
External strategy review completed in 2018 and mitigating opportunities identified.
Market and product development initiatives.
Co-operation between Group businesses, leveraging the Groups size international footprint and exploiting synergies.
Monitoring of UK businesses and the effects of Brexit.
Exposure to longer term infrastructure investment programmes.
Link to strategy Mitigation The Group has a diverse portfolio of businesses with exposure to a range of markets and geographies, limiting exposure to any one country or market sector.
Current and future financial performance is continuously monitored, facilitating rapid response to changes in market conditions.
The Group has closely monitored on a business-by-business basis, the identified operational and financial risks arising from the UKs expected exit from the EU on 29 March 2019.
Link to strategy Mitigation The holding of leading positions in niche markets of infrastructure products and galvanizing services with high barriers to entry.
In line with our entrepreneurial model, our decisions are made close to our markets and our businesses are agile and responsive to changes in their competitive landscape.
Regular subsidiary Board meetings that review market and customer activity.
Our subsidiary businesses aim to provide superior products and high service levels to customers, whilst aiming to ensure there is no dependency on any one particular customer.
Link to strategy Mitigation Products tested, approved and accredited by regulatory bodies.
Quality control protocols fully implemented and continuously monitored.
Contractual controls in place to minimise economic impacts.
Insurance cover maintained globally with insurance partners.
Litigation supported managed by external legal specialists.
Thematic review carried out in 2018 with recommendations made for prioritisation in 2019.
Link to strategy Mitigation Group material contract review process ensures specialist central oversight of key contractual arrangements.
Contracts training for key staff.
Dedicated quantity surveyors and contracts managers embedded in subsidiary management structures to control projects.
Mitigation Link to strategy Group procurement standards in place, including robust due diligence of supply chain partners and requiring dual sourcing where available.
Maintenance of relationships with key suppliers through regular interaction and assessment of performance financial status.
Oversight of material procurement contracts ensuring robust contractual protections.
Goods inwards and stock management processes in place to reduce the likelihood of defects in or shortage of raw materials.
Contingency plans are in place within the relevant businesses and throughout the supply chain to mitigate these risks, such as purchasing additional stock of key raw materials and securing additional supply chain capacity.
com 37 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Description and potential impact Risk: Weaknesses in IT The Group relies on the information technology systems used in the daily systems operations of its subsidiaries.
A failure or impairment of those systems or any inability to effectively implement new systems could cause a loss of business and or damage to the reputation of the Group, together with significant remedial costs.
Trend: Breakdowns in controls and security procedures could cause the Group to become susceptible to cyber risks.
No change Risk: Acquisition strategy Description and potential impact failure The Groups growth strategies include the acquisition of businesses around the world that complement or supplement its existing activities.
Failure to execute an effective acquisition and integration programme would have a significant impact on the Groups ability to generate sustainable Trend: profitable growth for shareholders.
No change Risk: Lack of product Description and potential impact The Group operates in global infrastructure markets where continuous development and innovation is integral to the Groups product offering and where a failure to innovate could result in product obsolescence, the entry of new competitors innovation and or loss of market share.
The development of new products and technologies carries risk including Trend: the failure to develop a commercially viable offering within an acceptable timeframe.
No change Risk: Failure to recruit and Description and potential impact retain key employees The Group encourages an entrepreneurial culture through a decentralised management structure.
An inability to attract, develop and retain high-quality individuals in key management positions could severely affect the long term success of the Trend: Group.
No change Risk: Failure to comply Description and potential impact with applicable health and The Group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around the world.
A failure in the Groups health and safety procedures could lead to safety legislation environmental damage or to injury to or death of employees or third parties, with a consequential impact on operations and the increased risk of regulatory or legal action being taken against the Group.
Any such action Trend: could result in both financial damages and damage to reputation.
No change Description and potential impact Risk: Violation of The Groups global operations must comply with a range of national and international laws and regulations including those related to anti-bribery and applicable laws and corruption, human rights and employment, GDPR, trade export compliance and competition anti-trust.
regulations A failure to comply with any applicable laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal liabilities and or individual or corporate fines and could Trend: also result in debarment from government-related contracts, restrictions on ability to trade or rejection by financial counterparties as well as reputational No change damage.
38 Stock Code HILS Legal & Regulatory Legal & Regulatory Human Resources Operational Operational Operational Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Portfolio management Geographic expansion Target returns and leverage Entrepreneurial culture Link to strategy Mitigation External specialist support with the development and oversight of IT system change programmes.
Disaster recovery plans documented, tested and monitored by Group businesses.
The Groups Policy Manual incorporates IT policies in respect of system back-up procedures and hardware software protection.
The Board maintains a watching brief on IT risks, particularly cyber risk, and has commissioned a project of improvement for 2019.
Link to strategy Mitigation External strategy review completed in 2018, providing a road map for future M&A activity.
Board approval required for Group acquisitions, in line with the Group Boards Schedule of Matters Reserved.
Due diligence protocols deployed in relation to assessment of target businesses, including financial, commercial, legal and others where appropriate.
Contractual protections and assurances sought from sellers to mitigate subsequent identification of risks.
100 Day post-acquisition integration plan established for all material acquisitions with regular performance monitoring and reporting to the Board.
Mitigation Entrepreneurial culture established through a decentralised management structure, Link to strategy ensuring that Group businesses are agile and responsive to changes in their competitive environments.
The Group actively encourages and supports research and development programmes at subsidiary level where knowledge of the market and needs of our customers is greatest.
Executive Board approval of product development proposals within the Groups capital spend approval policies.
Active Intellectual Property management, by individual business units overseen by Group.
Dedicated quality compliance resources in place across Group businesses, ensuring responsiveness to regulator and or customer approval requirements.
Board monitoring of emerging risks alongside external specialist support, where both the risks identified and the potential opportunities arising are considered.
Mitigation Link to strategy Succession planning model driven by the Group Chief Executive and overseen by the Board.
Implementation of contractual protections and retentions in employment contracts of senior management and other key employees.
Competitive remuneration, benefits and incentive plans offered to employees and regularly benchmarked.
Recruitment process developed to include competency requirements and skills gap analysis.
Training and development of employees, which includes a programme of IOD and ILM courses for senior management and identified potential successors, and apprenticeship and other vocational courses for specialist and technical roles.
Mitigation Regular health and safety monitoring, supported by an external independent health, safety Link to strategy and environmental consultant, both in the UK & the US.
Use of an online safety cloud reporting framework.
UK & US Health and Safety Forums monitor performance and share best practice.
Culture of zero tolerance in respect of health and safety violations promoted by the Board and disseminated throughout Group businesses supported with appropriate HR policies and the Business Code of Conduct.
External health and safety accreditations and relationships maintained with regulatory bodies.
Health and safety as a priority area of focus for new acquisitions.
Any incident with serious outcomes is followed up and investigated thoroughly and improvement recommendations are implemented to minimise any reoccurrence.
Mitigation Link to strategy Group Code of Conduct sets out required approach for all staff.
Staff training provided on Anti-Bribery and Corruption and Competition Compliance.
Programme of audits undertaken on a cyclical basis to review subsidiary compliance with regulatory requirements, including for example simulated dawn raids.
Software solutions implemented globally to ensure compliance with trade and export legislation.
Externally hosted whistleblowing hotline available to all employees to allow them to raise concerns in confidence or anonymously, if preferred.
Modern Slavery compliance programme continued through 2018.
Toolkits issued to all UK subsidiaries to aid compliance with local GDPR.
Audits and further training to be completed in 2019. hsholdings.
