24 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks Risks and risk management Risk management process Brexit and risk appetite In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the There is significant uncertainty concerning 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code The Board believes that in carrying out the post Brexit trade arrangements with the Directors confirm that they have Groups businesses it is vital to strike the potential wide-reaching impacts from carried out a robust assessment of the right balance between an appropriate and a possible no deal scenario requiring risks facing the Group that might impede comprehensive control environment and increasing diversion of resources the achievement of its strategic and encouraging the level of entrepreneurial to prepare for the range of possible operational objectives aswell as might freedom of action required to seek out and outcomes, as the possible exit date affect performance or cashposition.
develop new business opportunities: but, draws nearer.
These potential impacts As aleading food processor in a fast however skilfully this balance between on the Group include our ability to hire moving environment it is critical that risk and reward is struck, the business employees from the EU, increased trade theGroup identifies, assesses and will always be subject to a number of tariffs on imported goods, possible prioritises its risks.
The result of this risksand uncertainties, as outlined below.
border delays, currency volatility and assessment isastatement of the principal dis-harmonisation of UK and EU regulatory All types of risk applicable to the business risks facing theGroup together with standards in a range of areas.
Hiltons are regularly reviewed and a formal risk a description of the main controls and exposure is somewhat mitigated through assessment is carried out to highlight key mitigations that reduce the effect of those its predominantly local sourcing and risks to the business and to determine risks were they tocrystalise.
Additionally we meet actions that can reasonably and cost with the adoption of appropriate mitigation regularly with relevant industry bodies and effectively be taken to mitigate them.
actions, enables us to monitor, minimise have put in place a range of contingency The Groups Risk Register is compiled and control both the probability and measures including rebalancing supply through combining the set of business potential impact of these risks.
lines to minimise border crossings, flexible unit risk registers supplemented by formal buy models and ongoing communication How we manage risk interviews with senior executives and with suppliers to increase stock holding.
The Group has Responsibility for risk management Overall we believe that the Hilton business a Risk Management Committee which acrossthe Group, including the appropriate is sufficiently resilient to withstand these reports regularly to the Board on the identification of risks and the effective uncertainties whilst minimising disruption.
substance of the risk assessment and any application of actions designed to mitigate changes to the nature of those risks or The most significant risks those risks, resides with the Board changes to the likelihood or materiality of the Group faces which believes that a successful risk the risk in question.
The RiskManagement management framework carefully balances The most significant business risks that Committee also reviews progress in risk and reward, and applies reasoned the Group faces have changed little as control development and implementation judgement and consideration of potential might be expected with an unchanged of those key controls related to principal likelihood and impact in determining and relatively straightforward business risks listed in this section of the report.
These risks, which will continue Group Internal Audit derives its risk proactive approach to risk management toaffect the Groups businesses, together based assurance plan on the controls with well-developed structures and with the measures we have adopted to after considering the Risk Assessment a range of processes for identifying, mitigate theserisks, are outlined in the and reportsits findings to the Audit assessing, prioritising and mitigating its table opposite.
This is not intended to Committee.
The RiskManagement key risks, as the delivery of our strategy constitute an exhaustive analysisof all risks Committee also oversees the depends on our ability to make sound risk faced by the Group, butrather to highlight scenario based business continuity informed decisions.
those which are the most significant, as management exercises.
viewed from thestandpoint of the Group as a whole.
Not all the risks listed are within the Groupscontrol and others may be unknown or currently considered immaterial, but could turn out to be material in the future.
These risks, togetherwith our risk mitigation strategies, should be considered in the context of the Groups risk management and internal control framework, details of which are set out in the Corporate governance statement.
It must be recognised that systems of internal control are designed tomanage rather than completely eliminate any identified risks.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 25 Description of risk The Group is dependent on a small number of customers who can exercise significantbuying power and influence when it comes to contractual renewal terms at5 to 15 year intervals.
Its potential impact The Group has a relatively narrow, but expanding, customer base, with sales to subsidiaryor associated companies of the Tesco and Ahold groups still comprising the larger part of Hiltons revenue.
The larger retail chains have over many years increased theirmarket share of meat products in many countries, as customers continue to move away from high street butchers towards one stop convenience shopping in supermarkets.
This has increased the buying powerof the Groups customers which in turn increases their negotiating power with the Group, whichcould enable them to seek better terms over time.
Risk mitigation measures The Group is progressively widening its customer base and has maintained high level andstrategiesadopted ofinvestment in state of the art facilities, which together with managements continuous focus on reducing costs, allow it to operate very efficiently at very high throughputs and price its products competitively.
Hilton operates a decentralised, entrepreneurial business structure, which enables it to work very closely and flexibly with its retail partners in each country, in order to achieve high service levels in terms of orders delivered, delivery times, compliance with product specifications and accuracy of documentation, all backed by an uncompromising focus on food safety, product integrity and traceability assurance.
Hiltonhas long term supply agreements in place with its major customers, with pricing either on a cost plus or agreed packing rate basis.
Description of risk The Groups growth potential is dependent on the success of its customers and the growth of their packed food sales.
Its potential impact The Groups products predominantly carry the brand labels of the customer to whom packed food is supplied and it is accordingly dependent on its customers success in maintaining orimproving consumer perception of their own brand names and packed foodofferings.
Risk mitigation measures The Group plays a very proactive role in enhancing its customers brand values, through andstrategiesadopted providinghigh quality, competitively priced products, high service levels, continuing product and packaging innovation and category management support.
It recognises that quality and traceability assurance are integral to its customers brands and works closely with its customers to ensure rigorous quality assurance standards are met.
It is continuously measured by its customers across a very wide range of parameters, including delivery time, product specification, product traceability and accuracy of documentation and targets demanding service levels across all these parameters.
The Group works closely with its customers toidentify continuing improvement opportunities across the supply chain, including enhancingproduct presentation, extendingshelf life and reducing wastage at every stage inthesupply chain.
Description of risk The progress of the Groups business is dependent on the macroeconomic environment and levels of consumer spending which is influenced by publicity and the decline in the consumption of meat in the countries in which it operates.
Its potential impact No business is immune to difficult economic climates and the consequent pressure on levels ofconsumer spending, such as those seen over recent years across Europe.
Risk mitigation measures With a sound business model including successful diversification within the vegetarian market, andstrategiesadopted strong retail partners and a single minded focus on minimising unit packing costs, whilst maintaining high levels of product quality and integrity, the Group has made continued progress over recent difficult economic periods.
It expects to be able to continue to make progress.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 26 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued Description of risk Under growth conditions the Groups business is reliant on a small number of key personnel and its ability to manage growth and change successfully.
This risk has increased with the Groups continued expansion with new customers and into new territories with potentially greater reliance on stretched skilled factory operatives resource and execution of simultaneous growth projects.
Its potential impact The Group is critically dependent on the skills and experience of a small number of senior managers and specialists and as the business develops and expands, the Groups success willinevitably depend on its ability to attract and retain the necessary calibre of personnel for keypositions, both for managing and growing its existing businesses and setting up new ones.
Risk mitigation measures To continue to manage an increased rate of growth successfully, the Group carefully manages andstrategiesadopted its skilled resources including succession planning and maintaining a talent pipeline.
The Group is evolving its people capability in line with the geographical expansion and product range.
In particular it recognises that the span of management responsibility needs to be balanced with an appropriate management structure within the overall organisation.
Hilton continues to invest in on-the-job training and career development, together with the cost effective management of quality information and control systems, whilst recruiting high quality new employees, asrequired, to facilitate the Groups ongoing growth and in deploying resource to support thegrowth projects appropriately.
The continuing growth of Hiltons business, together with its growing reputation, is facilitating the recruitment of more top class specialists with the key skill sets required both to support our existing individual country business units and manage theGroups future geographical expansion.
Description of risk The Groups current rate of global growth places significant demands on the effectiveness of integration and compliance across new political, legislative and regulatory environments.
This risk is further compounded due to the enormity ofthechange and programme management activities.
Its potential impact The Groups ability to effectively manage simultaneously the requirements of the external and internal environments ensuring first class compliance, change and global programme management systems.
Risk mitigation measures As a Group we have continued to strengthen our in house capabilities delivering strong andstrategiesadopted investment strategies, best in class infrastructure integration and governance and compliance framework.
Resources are being put in place and structures reviewed to enhance project management control and oversight.
Control systems embedded in project management enable the risks of growth to be appropriately highlighted and managed.
To underscore our efforts wehave active relationships with strong industry experts across all areas of business growth.
Description of risk The Groups business is dependent on maintaining a wide and flexible global food supply base operating at standards that can continuously achieve the specifications setby Hilton and its customers.
Its potential impact The Group is reliant on its suppliers to provide sufficient volume of products, to the agreed specifications, in the very short lead times required by its customers, with efficient supply chain management being a key business attribute.
The Group sources certain of its food requirements globally.
Tariffs, quotas or trade barriers imposed by countries where the Groupprocures meat, or which they may impose in the future, together with the progress ofWorld Trade Organisation talks and other global trade developments, could materially affectthe Groups international procurement ability but has not done so in recent years.
Risk mitigation measures The Group maintains a flexible global food supply base, which is progressively widening as andstrategiesadopted itexpands and is continuously audited to ensure standards are maintained, so as to have in placeawide range of options should supply disruptions occur.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 27 Description of risk Contamination within the supply chain including outbreaks of disease and feed contaminants affecting livestock and fish and media concerns relating to these andinstances of product adulteration can impact the Groups sales.
Its potential impact Reports in the public domain concerning the risks of consuming certain foods can cause consumer demand to drop significantly in the short to medium term.
A food scare similar to the bovine spongiform encephalopathy BSE scare that took place in 1996 or the much more recent concerns with regard to meat substitution can affect public confidence in our products.
Risk mitigation measures The Group sources its food from a trusted raw material supply base, all components of andstrategiesadopted which meet stringent national, international and customer standards.
The Group is subject to demanding standards which are independently monitored in every country and reliable product traceability and high welfare standards from the farm to the consumer are integral to the Groupsbusiness model.
The Group ensures full traceability from source to packed product across all suppliers.
Within our factories the BRC Global Standard for Food Safety and our ownfactory standards assessments drives the enhancement of the processes and controls thatare necessary to ensure that the risks of contaminants throughout the processing, packingand distribution stages are mitigated and traceable should a risk ever materialise.
Description of risk Significant incidents such as fire, flood or interruption of supply of key utilities could impact the Groups business continuity.
Its potential impact Such incidents could result in systems or manufacturing process stoppages with consequent disruption and loss of efficiency which could impact the Groups sales.
Risk mitigation measures The Group has robust business continuity plans in place including sister site support protocols andstrategiesadopted enabling other sites to step in with manufacturing and distribution of key product lines where necessary.
Continuity management systems and plans are suitably maintained and adequately tested including building risk assessments and emergency power solutions.
There are appropriate insurance arrangements in place to mitigate against any associated financial loss.
Description of risk The Groups IT systems could be subject to cyber attacks including fraudulent externalemail activity.
These kinds of attacks are generally increasing in frequency andsophistication.
Its potential impact The Groups operations are underpinned by a variety of IT systems.
Loss or disruption to those IT systems or extended times to recover data or functionality could impact the Groups ability toeffectively operate its facilities and affect its sales and reputation.
Risk mitigation measures The Group has a robust IT control framework which is tested frequently by internal staff and andstrategiesadopted byspecialist external bodies.
This framework is established as the key control to mitigate cyber risk and is applied consistently throughout the Group.
The increased prominence of IT risk is mitigated by investments in IT infrastructure and now forms a regular part of the Group Risk Management Committee agenda and presentations to the Board.
In accordance with Group strategy IT risk is considered when looking at new ventures and control measures implemented in new sites follow the Group common standards.
There is internal training and resources available with emphasis on prevention, user awareness and recovery.
Increasingly, IT forms part of site business continuity exercises which test and help develop the capacity to respond to possible crises or incidents.
The technical infrastructure to prevent attacks and the resilience to recover are continuously developed to meet emerging threats.
IT systems including financial and banking systems are configured to prevent fraudulent payments.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
