50 Hochschild Mining PLC RISK MANAGEMENT & VIABILITY MANAGING RISK ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD Hochschild Mining has implemented a framework of risk management and internal controls that ensures that key risks are identified and, where they cannot be eradicated, are mitigated to within tolerable levels.
Identify Measure Manage Monitor Report As with all businesses, management of The Risk Committee is responsible for 2018 Risks the Groups operations and execution implementing the Groups policy on risk The key business risks affecting the of its growth strategies are subject to management and monitoring the Group set out in this report remain largely a number of risks, the occurrence of effectiveness of controls in support of unchanged compared to those disclosed which could adversely affect the the Groups business objectives.
It meets in the 2017 Risk Management report performance of the Group.
The Groups four times a year and more frequently if with the exception of a new risk entitled risk management framework is required.
The Risk Committee comprises Commercial Counterparty that has premised on the continued monitoring the CEO, the Vice Presidents, Country been identified and added in light of of the prevailing environment, the risks General Managers and the head of the a customer of the Company entering posed by it, and the evaluation of Internal Audit function.
A live risk matrix into bankruptcy during the year.
potential actions to mitigate those risks.
is reviewed which maps the significant Reasons for the year-on-year change in risks faced by the business and updated the profile of a specific risk can be found at each Risk Committee meeting, and the in the commentary section of the relevant Change in risk profile vs 2017 most significant risks as well as potential risk which also provides an outlook on the actions to mitigate those risks are risk for the current financial year.
Unchanged reported to the Groups Audit Committee, which has oversight of risk management Higher on behalf of the Board.
Lower New Risk heat map Risks Heat map To assist the reader in assessing the 1.
Commodity price relative significance of each risk 2.
Commercial Counterparty discussed in this section, the heat 3.
Operational performance map see right, indicates the Boards 4. Business interruption assessment of the likelihood of the unmitigated risk occurring as well as 5.
Information security the extent of the impact on the Group.
Health and safety Low Probability High 11.
Community relations Low Impact High Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 51 Financial risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary 1.
Adverse movements in Constant focus on maintaining The focus on conserving capital and optimising cash flow precious metal prices a low all-in sustaining cost of continued in 2018 through: Commodity could materially impact production and an efficient level debt reduction and refinancing: price the Group in various ways of administrative expense.
controlling operating and administrative costs: beyond a reduction in the Flexible hedging policy that financial results of optimising sustaining capital expenditure: and allows the Company to contract operations.
These include hedges to mitigate the effect of maintaining low working capital.
impacts on the feasibility price movements taking into of projects, the economics In relation to debt reduction and the refinancing of debt, as account the Groups asset mix of mineral resources and previously reported, the Company completed the early and forecast production.
heightened personnel redemption of its bonds in early 2018 thereby reducing debt by Policy to maintain low levels of retention and sustainability approximately $95 million.
The balance was replaced with leverage to ensure flexibility related risks.
shorter-term debt on significantly better terms, saving the Group through price cycles.
approximately $15m in interest expenses in 2018.
Debt was further reduced in December 2018 by $50 million.
See the Market Review on pages 4 to 5 for further details.
As reported earlier in this report, the Inmaculada mine had another record year in 2018 in terms of production and, as the lowest cost operation in the Groups portfolio, it has been key in reducing overall average production costs.
Even though currently no part of 2019 production has been hedged, the Groups flexible policy enables the Board to approve hedging contracts to protect cash flow as and when appropriate.
Insolvency of a customer Periodic assessment of In November 2018, Republic Metals, a US-based refinery and a or other business customers and business long-standing customer of the Company entered into bankruptcy Commercial counterparty bank, counterparts.
protection while owing the Group c. US$2.76m attributable for Counterparty insurance company, shipments previously made.
Risk mitigation practices contractor, etc.
could seeking to diversify the Groups The Group is participating in the bankruptcy proceedings result in the Groups customer base and or to limit as an unsecured creditor.
The likelihood of recovery is low inability to collect accounts the size of shipments.
as the secured creditors have claims that exceed Republic receivable or to receive Ongoing assessment Metals assets.
services which could of methods to mitigate adversely impact the The Group has instigated steps to mitigate the impact of a collection risk.
reoccurrence of this risk in the future.
Such steps include: Enhanced Credit Analysis: the enhancement of initial financial and business quality checks of new customers and business counterparts and more robust and more frequent evaluations of existing customers: Diversification: consideration of revising terms and conditions of sale of final product to diversify orders outstanding at any given time, use several banks for cash deposits, distribute business among contractors, etc.
: and Reduce exposure: the receipt of cash advances on sold product as soon as the product is delivered.
Operational risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary 3.
Failure to meet production Close monitoring of operational In 2018 the Group exceeded its production target by 0.5m targets and manage the performance, costs and capital attributable silver equivalent ounces with particularly strong Operational cost base could adversely expenditure as well as the performances at Inmaculada and Pallancata.
performance impact the Groups overall profitability at all stages 2018 budgets across the Group continued to focus on maintaining profitability.
of the mining value chain.
controlled levels of costs, capex and expenses.
As reported in the Monitoring the adequacy Financial review, the all-in sustaining cost from operations was and safety of key mining kept within the positively revised guidance for the year, at components such as tailing $12.6 per silver equivalent ounce.
dams, waste rock deposits, pipelines to service ongoing It was reported in last years risk report that management was operations, in close liaison closely monitoring performance of the high cost Arcata mine.
between relevant departments Despite cost efficiencies and encouraging exploration results in ensures that procurement, areas outside the authorised operational area, the combination construction and any permitting of increasingly narrow vein structures with marginal grades and are undertaken as appropriate.
a volatile and low average silver price prompted the decision to place the mine on care and maintenance.
52 Hochschild Mining PLC RISK MANAGEMENT & VIABILITY CONTINUED Operational risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary 4.
Assets used in the Groups Insurance coverage to protect Mitigating actions during the year include the following: operations may cease against major risks.
Business Insurance advisers conducted site visits and completed a full to function or the supply Management reporting systems review of operational risks to ensure that adequate property interruption of electricity may be to support appropriate levels of damage and business interruption risk management processes interrupted e. g. as a result inventory.
and insurance policies are in place at our operations: of technical malfunction Annual inspections by insurance Management reporting systems ensured that an appropriate or earthquake damage brokers and insurers assist level of inventory of critical parts is maintained: thereby causing managements efforts to production stoppages Adequate preventative maintenance programmes, supported understand and mitigate with material effects.
by the SAP Maintenance Module which has been enhanced operational risks.
following a recent upgrade, are in place at the operating units: Negotiation of long-term power Procurement of back-up power transformers: and supply contracts and the Design of a Business Continuity Plan documenting the procurement of contingent procedures to be implemented on the occurrence of certain generators.
Training and implementation has been scheduled for 2019.
Failure of any of the Compliance with ISO 27001, During the year a third-party review by a major audit firm was Groups business critical an internationally recognised commissioned to identify areas of vulnerability and to produce Information information systems as certification to evaluate recommendations.
This process led to the testing of the security and a result of unauthorised information security recoverability of operational and financial reporting systems.
cybersecurity access by third parties, management systems.
The Group was successful in securing the ISO 27001 certification may affect the Groups for its information security management system.
Migration to a Dedicated team within the ability to operate.
new version of the Groups accounting and payments platform IT department focused on S 4 HANA incorporates higher standards of security.
details are provided in the Audit Committee Report.
Audits performed by the internal audit department and third parties to test systems and issue recommendations.
The Groups future Implementing and maintaining In 2018, the first drilling campaign at Inmaculada was completed operating margins and an annual exploration which confirmed the presence of a considerable number of Exploration profitability depend upon drilling plan.
structures close to the existing mine infrastructure, adding and reserve its ability to find mineral 1.3 million of gold equivalent ounces of inferred resources.
Ongoing evaluation of and resource resources and to replenish For further details, refer to page 32. acquisition and joint venture reserves.
replacement opportunities to acquire Land easements have been secured and other permits have additional ounces.
been or are at an advanced stage of being, secured to facilitate the 2019 brownfield exploration programme.
Greenfield exploration in 2018 was driven by a number of earn-in joint venture opportunities being secured in 2018.
These provide the Group with a balanced portfolio of advanced and early stage opportunities in stable jurisdictions in the Americas.
Further details are provided on page 33.
From an operational perspective, the Group implemented a new technological platform, Deswik, for the provision of software to support mine planning so that mineable areas are optimised and mineral losses are reduced.
See page 15 for further details.
Reserves stated in Engagement of independent The Group has engaged P&E Consultants to undertake the this Annual Report experts to undertake annual annual audit of mineral reserve and resource estimates.
audit of mineral reserve and See page 164 for further details.
Adherence to the JORC code and guidelines therein.
Inability to attract or The Groups approach to Turnover in 2018 was higher than in previous years due to retain personnel through recruitment and retention competition for personnel from other mining companies Personnel: a shortage of skilled provides for the payment of and projects.
competitive compensation To counter this risk, the Group has continued with a number and retention packages, well defined career of initiatives to improve the retention of employees.
These plans and training and include the use of non-financial benefits e. g. flexible working development opportunities.
arrangements for Head Office staff and tailored personal development plans.
In addition, a three-year Leadership programme has been implemented at all levels of the organisation.
The Group has also started a training programme for supervisors and hourly workers, and intends to enhance the Groups employee value proposition.
These include the launching of initiatives related to causes that are valued by potential employees: providing them with the opportunity to contribute to innovation, community relations and environmental performance.
Retention plans for senior executives in the form of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan and Restricted Share Plan are also in place.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 53 Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary 8.
Failure to maintain good Development of a tailored labour Given the level of investment at the Inmaculada mine, the Groups labour relations with relations strategy focusing on Peruvian operation does not generate taxable income and Personnel: workers and or unions may profit sharing, working therefore there is no entitlement to statutory profit sharing for labour relations result in work slowdown, conditions, management style, Peruvian mineworkers.
The Company has, however, implemented stoppage or strike.
development opportunities, an additional bonus to compensate for this situation.
As part of the salary increases agreed with the Peruvian labour Monthly meetings with unions, a new bonus framework was put in place to promote mineworkers and unions to safety and productivity.
ensure a complete understanding of expectations The uncertainty with regards to the ongoing viability of the Arcata and to keep all parties updated mine impacted morale among workers at the operation.
During on the Groups financial 2018, the situation of Arcata did not improve and, therefore, regular performance.
meetings were scheduled and held with union representatives to understand concerns.
As has been previously announced, the mine will be placed on care and maintenance with personnel redeployed where possible.
Macro-economic risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary 9.
Changes in the legal, tax Local specialist personnel President Kuczynsky resigned from office in Peru and was and regulatory landscape continually monitor and react, replaced by Vice President Vizcarra who maintains a proPolitical, could result in significant as necessary, to policy changes.
business attitude and a supportive policy line towards the mining legal and additional expense, sector.
However, mining continues to be a highly regulated Participation in local industry regulatory restrictions on or industry where multiple permits are required leading to increased organisations.
suspensions of operations delays and costs.
The Government is working with the industry and may lead to delays in to simplify the permitting process but progress has been limited.
the development of current At the legislative level, the Peruvian Congress, which comprises operations and projects.
a majority from the non-governing parties, continues to evaluate measures that could adversely affect the mining industry.
In terms of social conflicts, the governmental authorities remain sensitive to conflicts between communities and mining companies and typically take a cautious approach by establishing a dialogue between parties.
Regional and local elections in October and December 2018 resulted in the election of a number of anti-mining officials in several key mining areas of Peru.
In Argentina, 2018 was marked by a declining popularity of the Government, primarily caused by the higher cost of living and the devaluation of the Peso.
The Government has sought to promote investment but material results are yet to consolidate.
Sustainability risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary 10.
Group employees working Health & Safety operational The Group has sadly reported three fatalities during 2018, which in the mines may be policies and procedures reflect resulted from two separate accidents, one at Pallancata and one Health exposed to health and the Groups zero tolerance at Arcata.
Further details of these accidents are provided in the and safety severe safety risks.
Use of world-class DNV safety Failure to manage these As reported in last years report, management established the management systems.
risks may result in Safety Culture Transformation Plan the SCTP to materially occupational illness, Dedicated personnel to ensure reinforce the Groups commitment to safety.
accidents, a work the safety of employees at the The Plan comprises the following pillars: slowdown, stoppage or operations via stringent strike and or may damage controls, training and prevention Leadership, with senior management involved in a full review the reputation of the programmes.
of all high-risk activities Group and hence its Systematic programme of Communications, focusing on initiatives to motivate and ability to operate.
training, communication incentivise safe working practices campaigns and other initiatives Training, with all personnel receiving five hours of on-site promoting safe working learning every week practices.
Technical, with the migration to the latest version of risk Use of reporting and information management systems and a review of the management information Companys procedures systems to monitor the As previously reported, the Groups overall safety performance incidence of accidents and indicators showed year-on-year improvements with the accident enable preventative measures frequency rate falling by 35% and the number of High Potential to be implemented.
A third-party audit of the Groups safety procedures was commissioned during the year which highlighted a number of positive aspects and identified areas of improvements which, among others, featured the inclusion of contractors within the SCTP and enhancements to the mine-site emergency communications plan.
The reports recommendations will be fully implemented during the first half of 2019.
For further details on the above, including on a training programme designed for the Groups emergency brigades, please refer to the safety section of the Sustainability Report on pages 42 and 43.
54 Hochschild Mining PLC RISK MANAGEMENT & VIABILITY CONTINUED Sustainability risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary 11.
The Group may be liable The Group has a dedicated Environmental permitting and agency oversight in Peru remained for losses arising from team responsible for rigorous during the year.
Environmental environmental hazards environmental management.
In 2018, the Group performed highly in its ECO score associated with the a In relation to The Group has adopted a with a score of 5.37 out of 6, which recognises the following Groups activities and those risks arising number of policies and aspects of environmental management: production methods, from the Groups procedures to limit and monitor ageing infrastructure, compliance with discharge regulatory limits: environmental its environmental impact.
or may be required to performance minimising the number of environmental incidents: undertake corrective infrastructure actions or extensive minimising the number of findings from regulatory audits: and remedial clean-up action or pay for governmental efficient water consumption and minimising waste generation.
remedial clean-up actions or be subject to fines For further details, please refer to the environmental section and or penalties.
of the Sustainability report on page 48. b In relation to those In addition, during the year, the Environmental team: risks arising from the completed the design of a management information system increased oversight tailored for use by the Group for roll-out in 2019: by the environmental secured environmental permits to support the Groups regulator exploration programme and operational requirements: and made significant progress with the closure of historic mine components and legacy exploration projects where environmental conditions were restored and the process of revegetation completed.
Communities living in the The Group has a dedicated Despite the regional elections in Peru in October, the overall areas surrounding the team responsible for climate of social relations remained stable during the year.
Community Groups operations may Community Relations.
relations A number of actions were taken during the year to maximise the oppose the activities Constructive engagement with Groups ability to work with partner communities which included: carried out at existing local communities based on mines or, with respect to several years of positive restructuring and strengthening of the Community Relations development projects and relations.
function: prospects, may invoke Community Relations strategy the launch of a technology partnership at all mines to facilitate their rights to be consulted focuses on promoting the monitoring of community objectives: and under new laws.
education, health and nutrition, the establishment of social committees at each mining unit and These actions may result and sustainable development.
an external advisory committee to help assess and address loss of production, Policy to actively recruit workers risks related to the Groups social licence.
increased costs and from local communities.
decreased revenues, Further details on the Groups activities to mitigate sustainability Policy of hiring service providers longer lead times, risks can be found in the Sustainability report on pages 42 to 49. from local communities.
additional costs for exploration and have an adverse impact on the Groups ability to obtain the relevant permits.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 55 Viability Approach to assessing viability In their assessment of the financial In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the In assessing the Groups viability, the impact of each of the above scenarios, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered a number of Directors have assumed a conservative Directors have assessed the viability of scenarios which are within reasonable price scenario of Au: $1,100 oz and the Group taking into account the Groups contemplation taking into account the Ag: $14 oz the Assumed Prices.
current position and the potential impact principal risks to which the Group is of the principal risks which could threaten Should prices fall further than the exposed as set out in the earlier part the business model, future performance, Assumed Prices, the Board would oversee of this report.
solvency or liquidity of the Group.
the implementation of contingency The Groups largest asset is the actions, such as the elimination of Period of Viability Statement Inmaculada mine, which currently discretionary expenditure e. g. exploration As per provision C. 2.2, the Directors have represents approximately 75% of the expenditure, the reduction if not the reviewed the length of time to be covered Groups cash flows.
The application elimination of dividend distributions and by the Viability Statement, particularly of the scenarios at the Groups other initiatives to reduce costs across given its primary purpose of providing operations would have a significantly the business so as to maximise the investors with a view of financial viability reduced impact on the Group.
that goes beyond the period of the Going Concern statement.
The following scenarios were analysed The modelling for the above scenarios with respect to the Inmaculada mine: incorporates operational and financial It has been concluded that three years is forecasts based on a life-of-mine plan.
the appropriate time horizon in light of: Scenario 1: The occurrence of a material safety accident The viability statement analysis has the inherent uncertainty of longer-term A severe fatal accident occurs which also taken into account other mitigating forecasting in a cyclical industry results in a three-month stoppage of actions available to the Group upon which, in the case of precious metals, operations.
The impact analysis takes the occurrence of one or more of the is largely driven by global macrointo account other financial liabilities principal risks.
Such actions include: economic factors: and that may result including the cost of the use of excess cash: the large number of external variables remedial work and regulatory fines.
lines of credit with relationship banks: that need to be taken into account in Scenario 2: The occurrence of a establishing any meaningful forecast claims under the Groups insurance material environmental incident of the Groups business.
policies: A key part of Inmaculadas plant administrative cost reduction: infrastructure is compromised which rescheduling the execution of Care results in a major spillage of contaminants.
& Maintenance and mine closure The impact analysis assumes a programmes and their associated suspension of operations of one month costs: and takes into account the cost of repairs, remediation and regulatory working capital management: and fines and other associated expenses.
Scenario 3: A strike by mineworkers For examples of the mitigating actions A widespread mineworkers strike taken by the Board during the year under results in a suspension of operations review, please refer to the commentary for one month.
The impact analysis in the Risk Management section of takes into account the cost of negotiating this report.
a settlement and other associated Conclusion expenses.
While it is always possible that Scenario 4: A community-led protest combinations of weak precious metal blocks a principal road to from the mine prices and the occurrence of more than A protest by a local community obstructs one of the above referenced scenarios the access road to Inmaculada for could threaten the solvency and liquidity two months.
The impact analysis takes of the Company over the next three years, into account the cost of negotiating the Directors have assessed the impact of a settlement and other associated each scenario, using the Assumed Prices expenses.
and other factors considered to be reasonable and, accordingly, can confirm Scenario 5: The failure of the mill or that they have a reasonable expectation other critical plant component that the Company will be able to continue A major failure of one of the mills at in operation and meet its obligations over Inmaculadas plant causes a stoppage the next three years.
of six months which requires civil works, repairs and the acquisition of spare The Strategic report, as set out from the equipment.
The impact analysis takes inside front cover to page 55, has been into account the cost of the works reviewed and approved by the Board of and replacement costs as well as Directors and signed on its behalf by: contributions from relevant insurance policies.
Ignacio Bustamante Chief Executive Officer 19 February 2019
