H HomeServ omeServe pl e plc Annual R c Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc coun ounts 2018 ts 2018 26 26 S Ptr rincipal risks and unc ategic report ertainties All risks could negatively impact P Page header rincipal risks and uncertainties HomeServes success or reputation and together have the potential to lead to reduced profitability, higher cash outflows, reduced cash inflows and ultimately lower returns for all HomeServe has a robust risk management framework stakeholders including employees, which encompasses the Groups risk policy and overall partners, creditors and shareholders.
HomeServes robust risk management risk appetite.
The framework provides a disciplined and framework ensures that risks do not consistent approach across all of HomeServes business, go unchecked and controls and ensuring a structured response at all levels throughout mitigations are put in place to reduce the Group and across all businesses and geographies, to exposure and promote the continued capture monitor and mitigate risk.
The Audit & Risk Committee is chaired by one of the Non-Executive Risk registers are maintained by the Directors and is composed of independent Non-Executive directors.
management of each business and The internal and external auditors, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief are reviewed by the Audit and Risk Executive Officer and the Chairman are invited, but are not entitled, to Committee at each of its meetings.
Where appropriate, other Executive Directors and Risks are scored on a gross basis managers also attend meetings at the Chairmans invitation.
The external following a standard framework and internal auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters according to likelihood and impact or concerns that they may have, in the absence of the Executive Directors, and are reduced on a net basis after whether at Committee meetings or, more informally, outside of them.
consideration and application of relevant mitigations and controls.
The Audit & Risk Committee advises the Board on risk appetite and risk strategy, maintains the quality and effectiveness of risk management Changes in Principal risks in FY18 processes under review and receives regular reports from the Group Risk As the largest business line in each Committee.
geographic segment, Membership forms the spine of HomeServes The Group Executive Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief strategic risks and there is Financial Officer, it is composed of the Executive Directors and other considerable overlap with the other representatives of each of the Group businesses.
The Committee reports three areas: Home Experts, Smart to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Board retains the responsibility for the Home and HVAC.
As a result, the overall evaluation of the Groups risk management processes.
substance of the majority of the strategic risks remains unchanged The Group Risk Management Team proposes the risk framework since the prior year.
However, the across the Group and supports the businesses with the implementation, crystallisation of four distinct areas monitoring of the risk maturity and progress of everyday risk management to support HomeServes vision to be across each business in the Group.
the worlds most trusted provider of home repairs and improvements has Strategic risks are specific to HomeServes business model and strategy leant additional emphasis to certain and may pose a fundamental challenge to its future prospects.
They include areas and risks have now been categorised to provide further clarity.
decisions made and actions taken, or indeed not taken, by the Board to Operational and financial risks also determine HomeServes direction and positioning within the home repairs and remain largely unchanged.
improvements market in multiple geographies.
Operational risks relate to failure in HomeServes processes.
Examples include human error, system failure, failure to comply with prevailing legal and regulatory frameworks etc and may lead to, amongst others, business interruption, financial losses and reputational damage.
Financial risks relate to an inability to secure an adequate amount or appropriate mix of short-term and long-term funding from capital and debt, failure to comply with debt covenants or failure to allocate or invest capital appropriately or on a timely basis.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 27 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic risks 1.
Financial risks 12 are not scored Movement in FY18 Likelihood The table below sets out what the Board believes to be the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, the mitigating actions for each, and an update on any change in the profile of each risk during the past year.
All risks carry equal importance and weighting for the Board, however additional focus and priority may be given to specific risks for a period of time in certain circumstances e. g. following a material acquisition or to implement plans to reduce any risk which exceeds the appetite threshold.
The principal risks and uncertainties below should be read in conjunction with the Business Review and the Financial Review.
Additional risks and uncertainties of which HomeServe is not currently aware or which are believed not to be significant may also adversely affect strategy, business performance or financial condition in the future.
Market Disruption Strategic risk There are a number of competitors providing similar products and services in HomeServes existing markets.
There is the potential for competitors to expand into other geographies and for new entrants to introduce new products or new technologies that erode HomeServes market share.
Over time market disruption may have a negative impact on KPIs such as customers and policy retention rates.
Net income per customer may decrease if HomeServe is forced to reduce prices to retain market share and affinity partner households may reduce if a partner were lost to a competitor or decided to offer competing products inhouse.
FY18 update HomeServes acquisition of 100% of Checkatrade in FY18 and 70% of Habitissimo in FY17 marked an entry into the online home repairs and improvements sector.
As one of the few remaining industries to undergo a substantial shift online there are a number of companies exploring opportunities in this sector.
There have been no new competitive entrants in Membership.
Mitigation s HomeServe believes that home assistance cover and the online model as offered by Checkatrade serve different customer demographics and needs so there is little cannibalisation expected of the existing 8.4m membership customers and it should not interfere with growth plans for that area of the business.
Impact HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 28 28 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued 2.
Commercial Partnerships Strategic Risk Underpinning HomeServes success in its chosen markets are close commercial relationships affinity partner relationships principally with utility companies, and municipal utility providers.
The loss of one of these relationships could impact HomeServes future customer and policy growth plans and retention rates.
Similarly growth plans, particularly in North America, are focused on signing new partners to extend reach and provide new marketing opportunities to grow the business.
FY18 update HomeServes North American business signed over 100 partners in FY18 and received Hart-Scott Rodino competition clearance for the Dominion Products and Services Inc. DPS policy book acquisition.
Tranche 1 completed on 18 December 2017 and tranche 2 is expected to complete in autumn 2018, bringing additional partner opportunities.
In the UK HomeServe signed new deals with E. ON and Octopus Energy and HomeServe continues to work with key partners in France.
In Spain the current partnership with Endesa draws to a close in the coming weeks.
Discussions continue to define a future relationship, which could be a non-exclusive claims handling and service only arrangement.
This would enable HomeServe to enter discussions with other energy companies.
The net effect of not marketing with Endesa is expected to have no significant impact on adjusted operating profit in Spain over the next two years.
Mitigation s With over 570 partners across the Group it is inevitable that HomeServe or a partner may choose not to renew a partnership as circumstances and priorities change.
With wider portfolios of partners in the UK and North America this is less of an issue.
Where relationships are more concentrated e. g. France and Spain HomeServe regularly monitors partnerships and maintains frequent two-way dialogue.
The majority of partnerships are secured under long-term contracts which HomeServe will often seek to proactively renew prior to the end of the contract term.
3. International Development Strategic Risk Part of HomeServes stated strategy is to pursue opportunities to expand into new geographies via a joint venture with a utility partner.
There is a risk that this strategy is not executed due, for example, to an inability to find a suitable partner.
As a consequence HomeServe may incur investment in management time and company resources that does not provide a return.
There is also the risk that a partner may be signed and at a later date either the partner or the geography are found to be inappropriate.
If no new geographies are entered, there will be slower progress in increasing Affinity Partner Households and there may be a decline in other KPIs and profitability generally if management time and resource becomes strained.
FY18 update HomeServe continues to explore international development opportunities.
As yet no firm agreement has been reached but there remains a pipeline of active partner discussions.
Mitigation s HomeServe conducts thorough market research on all potential geographies and will only enter those perceived as lower risk on the basis of micro and macro factors including, amongst others, corruption index, ease of doing business, quality of housing stock, quality and experience of potential utility partners.
A dedicated International Development team ensures sufficient management bandwidth for the overall business.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 29 Principal risks and uncertainties 4.
M&A strategy Strategic Risk HomeServe has increased its M&A activity in recent years as a means to accelerate a number of strategic goals e. g. partner and customer growth in North America, customer acquisition in the UK.
There is a risk that HomeServe overpays for transactions or underestimates the time and resource required to integrate new businesses, potentially leading to lower than anticipated cash inflows and revenue, increased costs, reduced profitability and an increased likelihood of impairment.
By contrast a successful M&A strategy should diversify risk by, for example, introducing new partners and channels, increasing profitability and should lead to increases in KPIs such as customers and policies.
FY18 update During FY18 HomeServe completed a number of acquisitions, the largest of which were the policy book of DPS in North America, the remaining 60% share of Checkatrade and Help-Link in the UK.
Mitigation s HomeServe conducts thorough due diligence and consults with experienced advisers when considering any transaction.
The Group has strict investment hurdles and all transactions are expected to clear these.
All transactions are subject to local Board approval with Plc Board approval required for all material transactions.
There are dedicated transformation and integration teams in all businesses and HomeServe may seek to retain key management and personnel to provide greater surety around the achievement of the associated investment cases.
HVAC Integration Strategic Risk The acquisition and integration of smaller HVAC businesses is a way to accelerate HomeServes progress in this business line.
As distinct from the M&A risk listed above, the integration risk relates specifically to integrating the HVAC businesses with HomeServes existing Membership businesses and its ability to provide HVAC products, like installations, to Membership customers and also provide HVAC customers with Membership products.
Failure to integrate businesses quickly and effectively could increase cost, resulting in failure to achieve predicted revenues and potentially lead to impairment.
FY18 update There has been an HVAC acquisition in each of the UK and France.
Mitigation s There are dedicated teams in each business tasked with business change and transformation and ensuring businesses are integrated and their subsequent performances are appraised.
The single acquisitions in the UK and France will enable a blueprint for successful integration and best practice for any further similar acquisitions.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 30 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued 6.
IT & Cyber Security Operational Risk In line with other businesses HomeServe is subject to the increased prevalence and sophistication of cyber-attacks which could result in unauthorised access to customer and other data or cause business disruption to services.
A successful cyber attack might have a significant impact on reputation, reducing the trust that customers place in HomeServe and could lead to legal liability, regulatory action and increased costs to rectify.
A lapse in internal controls and a subsequent data breach or loss would have a similar impact.
Total customer numbers and policy retention rates may reduce and partners may terminate affinity relationships if they perceive customer data to be at risk.
FY18 update Managing this risk remains a key area of focus and a high priority.
A permanent Group Chief Information Security Officer to oversee information security strategy and governance across the Group is now in position.
HomeServe has a dedicated role responsible for information security in each business and during the year, defined an Information and Cyber Security Strategy to focus improvement activities over the next 4 years.
HomeServe continued to complete cyber audits as part of its annual assurance plan and will continue to do so in FY19.
General Data Protection Regulation GDPR regulation introduces wide ranging changes affecting data protection and data privacy.
A Group initiative has been led by HomeServes Data Protection Officer to ensure compliance ahead of the 25 May 2018 enforcement date.
Mitigation s HomeServe has a number of defensive and proactive practices across the Group to mitigate this risk.
There is a detailed information security policy, which is communicated across the Group and training is provided as required.
Regular penetration testing is in place to assess defences and HomeServe continues to invest in IT security, ensuring a secure configuration, access controls, data centre security and effective communication of policies and procedures to all employees.
Underwriting Capacity and Concentration Operational Risk The Membership business line markets and administers policies that are underwritten by independent third party underwriters.
HomeServe acts as an insurance intermediary and does not take on any material insurance risk.
If underwriters were unable or unwilling to underwrite these risks and HomeServe were unable to find alternative underwriters it would require the risk to be underwritten directly, thereby exposing the business to material insurance risk, which is contrary to its preferred operating model.
Obtaining relevant regulatory approvals for a new underwriter may take time, leading to business disruption.
A material change in the operating model would also drive a change in accounting policy that could affect short term profitability.
Customer numbers and retention rates may fall if customers experience reduced service levels or are not covered throughout any period of disruption.
FY18 update Underwriting capacity was increased in FY17 with additional underwriters added in North America, France and Spain.
There have been no new relationships entered into this year but all existing relationships remain strong.
Mitigation s Regular meetings take place in all territories to review and understand underwriting performance and to accommodate growth in the customer and policy books as a result of M&A activity.
With the exception of the UK, HomeServe works with a number of different underwriters so is not materially dependent on one sole provider.
In the UK where there is one main underwriter, HomeServe maintains relationships with a number of other underwriters who are willing and able to underwrite the business.
HomeServe undertakes regular reviews with all underwriters to ensure that current product performance and trends are understood.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 31 Principal risks and uncertainties 8.
Regulation & Customer Focus Operational Risk HomeServe is subject to regulatory requirements in each of its markets, particularly relating to product design, marketing materials, sales processes and data protection.
Failure to comply with regulatory requirements in any of its countries could result in the suspension, either temporarily or permanently, of certain activities.
Much regulation is intended to protect the rights and needs of consumers and failure to adhere to the high expectations customers have for HomeServe could lead to reduced retention and higher customer losses.
In addition, legislative changes relating to partners may change their obligations with regard to the infrastructure they currently manage and hence the products and services HomeServe can offer to customers.
It is possible such legislative changes could reduce, or even remove, the need for some of HomeServe products and services.
HomeServe is also subject to wider regulation concerning companies outside of its industry including e. g. anticorruption, anti-fraud and bribery, modern slavery etc.
Specific policies can be found at http: www.
FY18 update New regulation came into effect in the UK in FY18 affecting the whole insurance industry, which requires companies to disclose prior year prices on customer renewal documents.
HomeServe has ensured all renewal documents are compliant and changes were made in line with the required timescale.
The Insurance Distribution Directive IDD is a further piece of EU-led regulation affecting all of HomeServes European businesses, applied from February 2018 and requiring that all sales adequately assess and demonstrate customer demands and needs for HomeServes products.
Steps have been taken in each of the UK, France and Spain to ensure full compliance.
In the prior year the primary regulator in the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, reduced the intensity of its supervision.
The reduced level of supervision has continued throughout this financial year.
Mitigation s HomeServe believes that regulation has a positive impact on the business and encourages a culture that promotes customers interests and will improve HomeServes prospects over both the short and long term.
HomeServe complies with local regulation in all of its businesses as a minimum but will also seek to take best practice from one business and apply it to all others.
HomeServe has regulatory specialists, compliance teams and Non-Executive Directors in each of business to help ensure that all aspects of the legislative regime in each territory are fully understood and adopted as required.
Specifically in the UK, HomeServe maintains regular dialogue with the FCA, while in North America there is regular contact with the Attorneys General.
In other businesses, dialogue is maintained with local regulators.
HomeServe keeps up to date with changes in government and regulatory policy, which ensures that products and services are designed, marketed and sold in accordance with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements and that the terms and conditions are appropriate and meet the needs of customers.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 32 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued 9.
Recruitment & Talent Operational Risk HomeServes ability to meet growth expectations and compete effectively is, in part, dependent on the skills, experience and performance of its personnel.
The inability to attract, motivate or retain key talent could impact overall business performance.
FY18 update HomeServe continued to enjoy growth throughout FY18.
The Group is larger than 12 months ago and engaging skilled personnel remains of utmost importance.
Mitigation s Employment policies, remuneration and benefits packages and long-term incentives are regularly reviewed and designed to be competitive with other companies.
Employee surveys, performance reviews and regular communication of business activities are just some of the methods used to understand and respond to employees views and needs.
Processes are in place to identify high performing individuals and to ensure that they have fulfilling careers, and HomeServe is managing succession planning effectively.
A Director of Group Talent was appointed in FY18, looking at how HomeServe develops and promotes its best talent and future leaders.
IT Investment Operational Risk The Group relies on several key systems to manage its customer interactions.
Appropriate and timely maintenance and investment is required to ensure systems continue to meet the changing needs of the business and its customers.
Failure to invest appropriately to manage customer interactions and provide high quality service may result in lower retention and higher customer losses.
There is also a dependence on quality back-office systems and any failure in those may lead to business interruption and could jeopardise the ability to analyse performance indicators and react to any trends.
Over investment in any new initiatives could see investment outweigh future benefits and lead to impairment.
FY18 update The UK continues to develop its replacement customer management system.
This is a significant project intended to deliver an improved customer experience and a number of marketing opportunities and operational efficiencies.
Any significant delays in the project or faults in its design or implementation could adversely impact the intended benefits and lead to increased costs, reduced revenues and asset impairment.
There has also been investment in the core claims handling and network management software in the UK, North America and Spain.
Such investments enable an effective customer journey and efficient and scalable management of networks.
Mitigation s All investment decisions are subject to the Groups strict investment criteria and hurdles.
Major IT programmes are allocated specific governance structures and oversight with members of senior management sitting on the Programme Board.
HomeServe engages a number of external advisers on large software projects to provide appropriate breadth and depth of experience and expertise to ensure there is no over-reliance on any one supplier and to support management in project delivery.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 33 Principal risks and uncertainties 11.
Digital & Innovation Operational Risk As in other industries, customers in all businesses increasingly wish to engage with HomeServe by digital means: joining online and maintaining details or making a claim via HomeServes website and App or posting onto social media channels such as Twitter and Facebook.
If HomeServe is not flexible enough to respond to changing needs, customers may explore competitor products and choose not to renew.
There is also a reputational risk as complaints logged via social media can quickly escalate if not dealt with in an appropriate and timely manner.
There is also an increasing demand for innovative products in HomeServes markets and the adoption of Smart Home products continues to grow.
FY18 update A comprehensive HomeServe App was launched in the UK in FY18 enabling customers to manage details, make claims and explore hints and tips from their smart phone.
HomeServe owns a stake in tado, a smart thermostat manufacturer and developed a wifi version for its smart water leak detector LeakBot in FY18.
Mitigation s HomeServe continues to review and respond to customer comments and needs and customers are offered a number of channels through which they can engage with HomeServe: telephone, website, Digital Live Chat, paper, email and social media.
The developing Home Experts business also offers an alternative for customers seeking a fully digital experience.
Financial The main financial risks are the availability of short-term and long-term funding to meet business needs and take advantage of strategic priorities such as M&A opportunities, the risk of policyholders not paying monies owed, and fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
Following the UKs decision to leave the European Union the Group could be subject to higher exchange rate fluctuations.
FY18 update On 1 August 2017, the Group entered into a new multi-currency revolving credit facility with both existing and new banking partners.
The new terms of the facility provide committed credit of 400m which runs until 31 July 2022 with two one-year extension options, subject to agreement by the banking partners, which would extend the maturity to 31 July 2024.
Loans have variable interest rates linked to LIBOR or EURIBOR.
With other funding, principally from Private Placements, HomeServe had over 270m headroom against its available sources of debt at the year end.
HomeServe completed a successful 125m equity placing on 19 October 2017 retaining balance sheet strength and liquidity and providing flexibility for the acquisition of DPS and for future inorganic investment opportunities.
Interest rate risk HomeServes policy is to manage interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings.
Where necessary, this is achieved by entering into interest rate swaps for certain periods, in which HomeServe agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
These swaps are designated to economically hedge underlying debt obligations.
Credit risk The risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is managed by only depositing funds with reputable and creditworthy banking institutions.
The risk of a policyholder defaulting is mitigated as any policy cover will cease as and when any premium fails to be paid.
Liquidity risk HomeServe manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows.
Foreign exchange risk Short term foreign exchange risk is mitigated with the natural hedging provided by the geographical spread of the businesses.
While this will protect against some of the transaction exposure, HomeServes reported results would still be impacted by the translation of non-UK operations.
