Top and emerging risks Risk Our approach to identifying and monitoring top and emerging Page risks is described on page 76.
During 2018, we made a number of Our conservative risk appetite 69 changes to our top and emerging risks to reflect our assessment Top and emerging risks 69 of the issues facing HSBC.
Our current top and emerging risks are Externally driven 69 as follows.
Internally driven 72 Areas of special interest 73 Externally driven Process of UK withdrawal from the European Union 73 Economic outlook and capital flows Risk management 73 Economic activity diverged across the global economy during Our risk management framework 73 2018.
The US benefited from a fiscal stimulus that helped to drive Our material banking and insurance risks 77 GDP growth above its long-term trend.
The growth rate in tradeCredit risk management 79 dependent regions like the European Union EU declined on the Liquidity and funding risk management 80 back of a slowing Chinese economy, and trade and geopolitical Market risk management 81 tensions.
Tightening global financial conditions alongside the Operational risk management 84 tapering off of fiscal stimulus in the US is expected to lead to more Regulatory compliance risk management 84 moderate growth in global economic activity in 2019.
Oil prices Financial crime risk management 85 will likely remain volatile as contrasting supply and demand Insurance manufacturing operations risk management 86 factors prevail in turn.
Other material risks The stand-off between the US and China on a variety of economic Reputational risk management 86 and technological issues is likely to continue in 2019, although Sustainability risk management 87 further liberalising initiatives in a vein similar to the Pension risk management 87 Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Key developments and risk profile in 2018 88 Partnership CPTPP and the EU-Japan trade deal, as well as Key developments in 2018 88 some re-organisation of global supply chains, could partly offset Credit risk profile 88 rising protectionism.
Nevertheless, the net impact on trade flows Liquidity and funding risk profile 132 could be negative, and may damage HSBCs traditional lines of Market risk profile 136 business.
Operational risk profile 142 Insurance manufacturing operations risk profile 143 Emerging markets are set to face challenging cross-currents.
The reduction in global liquidity and consequent increase in the cost of external funding could expose vulnerabilities that spread more Our conservative risk appetite broadly.
However, China has pledged to enact some stimulus to offset the effects of tariff hikes.
This should help emerging markets Throughout its history, HSBC has maintained an evolving achieve reasonable growth rates even in the face of headwinds, conservative risk profile.
This is central to our business and though downside risks abound.
US midterm elections brought in a divided Congress, while two of The following principles guide the Groups overarching risk Latin Americas largest economies, Mexico and Brazil, elected new appetite and determine how its businesses and risks are managed.
In Europe, populist parties have made political gains and could make further breakthroughs.
In conjunction with Financial position continuing significant uncertainty around the ultimate shape of the Strong capital position, defined by regulatory and internal UKs exit from the EU, as well as developments in countries such capital ratios.
as Italy, severe bouts of economic and financial turbulence could Liquidity and funding management for each operating entity, spread beyond Europe.
We believe HSBCs strong UK and on a stand-alone basis.
European franchises are well placed to weather risks, but would nevertheless be affected by severe shocks.
Operating model Mitigating actions Ambition and capability to generate returns in line with a We actively assess the impact of economic developments conservative risk appetite and strong risk management inkey markets on specific customer segments and portfolios capability.
and take appropriate mitigating actions.
These actions include Ambition and capability to deliver sustainable earnings and revising risk appetite and or limits, as circumstances evolve.
We use internal stress testing and scenario analysis, as wellas Business practice regulatory stress test programmes, to evaluate thepotential impact of macroeconomic shocks on our businesses and Zero tolerance for knowingly engaging in any business, activity portfolios.
Our approach to stress testing is described on or association where foreseeable reputational risk ordamage page76.
has not been considered and or mitigated.
We have carried out detailed reviews and stress tests of our No appetite for deliberately or knowingly causing detriment to wholesale credit, retail credit and trading portfolios to consumers, or incurring a breach of the letter or spirit of determine those sectors and customers most vulnerable to the regulatory requirements.
UKs exit from the EU, in order to proactively manage and No appetite for inappropriate market conduct by a member of mitigate this risk.
staff or by any Group business.
Geopolitical risk Enterprise-wide application Our operations and portfolios are exposed to risks associated with Our risk appetite encapsulates consideration of financial and nonpolitical instability, civil unrest and military conflict, which could financial risks and is expressed in both quantitative and qualitative lead to disruption to our operations, physical risk to our staff and terms.
It is applied at the global business level, at the regional or physical damage to our assets.
In addition, rising protectionism level, and to material operating entities.
and the increasing trend of using trade and investment policies as diplomatic tools may also adversely affect global trade flows.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Geopolitical risk remained heightened throughout 2018.
The enhanced monitoring, amending our risk appetite and or growing presence of populist parties means political systems reducing limits and exposures.
across Europe are increasingly fragmented, volatile and less We stress test portfolios of particular concern to identify predictable.
Political uncertainty remains high in the UK as its sensitivity to loss under a range of scenarios, with departure from the EU continues to dominate the political agenda management actions being taken to rebalance exposures and in 2019 see Process of UK withdrawal from the European Union manage risk appetite wherenecessary.
We undertake regular reviews of key portfolios to help ensure In the Middle East, the US has reinstated components of its Iran that individual customer or portfolio risks are understood and sanctions regime that were previously lifted to implement the Iran our ability to manage the level of facilities offered through any Nuclear Deal.
The US is also putting pressure to end the war in downturn is appropriate.
Yemen and the boycott of Qatar.
In Turkey, which has local Cyber threat and unauthorised access to systems elections in March 2019, the president may face increasing pressure to solve economic challenges after the Turkish lira came HSBC and other organisations continue to operate in an under pressure in 2018. increasingly hostile cyber threat environment, which requires ongoing investment in business and technical controls to defend In Asia, US-China competition and confrontation across multiple against these threats.
dimensions will likely continue, including concerning economic power and technology leadership.
US investment and export Key threats include unauthorised access to online customer restrictions on Chinese imports could disrupt investment accounts, advanced malware attacks and distributed denial of decisions, leading to a slow decoupling of the US and Chinese service DDOS attacks.
Destructive malware including ransomware, DDOS attacks and Key presidential votes in HSBC markets Mexico and Brazil have organised cyber criminals targeting payments are increasingly changed the political status quo.
A major source of uncertainty for dominant threats across the industry.
In 2018, the Group was Mexico was removed with the negotiation of the United Statessubjected to a small number of DDOS attacks on our external Mexico-Canada Agreement USMCA, which replaces NAFTA as facing websites, which were successfully mitigated across the a key driver of the Mexican economy, but still must be ratified.
In Group with no destructive malware including ransomware or Argentina, elections due in October 2019 will be shaped by payment infrastructure attacks reported.
economic factors and potential further market volatility.
Corruption Mitigating actions and security dynamics will continue to shape voter preferences.
We continue to strengthen and significantly invest in both Mitigating actions business and technical controls in order to prevent, detect and We continually monitor the geopolitical outlook, in particular in respond to an increasingly hostile cyber threat countries where we have material exposures and or a physical environment.
We continually evaluate the threat environment presence.
We have also established dedicated forums tomonitor for the most prevalent attack types and their potential geopolitical developments.
outcomes to determine the most effective controls to mitigate those threats.
We use internal stress tests and scenario analysis as well as regulatory stress test programmes, to adjust limits and Specifically, we continue to enhance our controls to protect exposures to reflect our risk appetite and mitigate risks as against advanced malware, data leakage, infiltration of appropriate.
Our internal credit risk ratings of sovereign payment systems and denial of service attacks as well as counterparties take into account geopolitical developments that enhance our ability to quickly detect and respond to could potentially disrupt our portfolios and businesses.
Ensuring our staff continue to be cyber aware is a key element of our defence We continue to carry out contingency planning for the UKs exit strategy.
from the EU and we are assessing the potential impact on our portfolios, operations and staff.
This includes the increased Cyber risk is a priority area for the Board and is routinely possibility of an exit with no transition agreement.
reported at Board level to ensure appropriate visibility, governance and executive support for our ongoing We have taken steps to enhance physical security in those cybersecurity programme.
geographical areas deemed to be at high risk from terrorism and military conflicts.
Regulatory developments including conduct, with adverse impact on business model and profitability The credit cycle Steadily rising US interest rates and the looming end of the ECBs Financial service providers continue to face stringent regulatory quantative easing programme, alongside the uncertainty caused and supervisory requirements, particularly in the areas of capital and liquidity management, conduct of business, financial crime, by trade and geopolitical tensions, caused a correction in stock indices and a widening in corporate bond spreads in the fourth internal control frameworks, the use of models and the integrity of financial services delivery.
The competitive landscape in which the quarter of 2018.
The Bank for International Settlements BIS estimates that 80% of US leveraged loans are covenant-lite.
Group operates may be significantly altered by future regulatory Pressures in this segment could come to a head and spill over to changes and government intervention.
Regulatory changes, including any resulting from the UKs exit from the EU, may affect other asset classes.
The International Monetary Fund deems that thin liquidity coverage ratios LCRs and stable funding ratios the activities of the Group as a whole, or of some or all of its principal subsidiaries.
This would include the loss of passporting SFRs for international banks US dollar positions could cause offshore dollar liquidity to tighten abruptly during periods of high rights and free movement of services, which are likely to arise in volatility, possibly affecting HSBCs positions.
the event of the UK leaving the EU without an exit deal.
Changes to business models and structures will be necessary to After reining in excess leverage during 2018, China has pledged accommodate any such restrictions.
For further details, see page renewed stimulus in 2019 to counter various adverse effects on 73. economic activity.
This could lead to renewed global concerns about Chinese debt levels.
In addition, debt-servicing burdens are Additionally, as described in Note 35 on the Financial Statements, high in some emerging markets, making them vulnerable to we continue to be subject to a number of material legal proceedings, regulatory actions and investigations, including, for shocks.
example, our January 2018 deferred prosecution agreement with Mitigating actions the US DoJ arising from its investigation into HSBCs historical We closely monitor economic developments in key markets foreign exchange activities the FX DPA.
andsectors and undertake scenario analysis.
This helps enable us totake portfolio actions where necessary, including 70 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Mitigating actions Ibor transition We are fully engaged, wherever possible, with governments Interbank offered rates Ibors are used to set interest rates on hundreds of trillions of US dollars worth of different types of and regulators inthecountries in which we operate, to help ensure that newrequirements are considered properly by financial transactions and are used extensively for valuation purposes, risk measurement and performance benchmarking.
regulatory authorities and the financial sector and can be implemented effectively.
Significant regulatory programmes are Following the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board, a overseen by the Group Change Committee.
fundamental review and reform of the major interest rates benchmarks, including Ibors, are underway across the worlds We hold regular meetings with all relevant authorities to discuss strategic contingency plans covering a wide range of largest financial markets.
In some cases, the reform will include replacing interest rate benchmarks with alternative risk-free rates scenarios relating to the UKs exit from the EU.
In the absence of an agreement on the terms of the UKs withdrawal from the RFRs.
This replacement process is at different stages, and is EU, these discussions increasingly focus on no deal scenarios progressing at different speeds, across several major currencies.
There is therefore uncertainty as to the basis, method and timing and our plans to navigate the restrictions that are likely to arise regarding our ability to access EU markets and customers from of transition and their implications on the participants in the financial markets.
the UK if passporting rights are withdrawn.
We have invested significant resources and have taken, and will HSBC has identified a number of potential prudential, conduct and continue to take, a number of steps to improve our compliance systemic risks associated with the transition.
systems and controls relating to our activities in global markets.
Mitigating actions These included enhancements to trade, voice and audio We have established a global programme across all of our surveillance and the implementation of algorithmic trading for global businesses to coordinate HSBCs transition activities and benchmark orders.
For further details, see Regulatory to assess the potential risks and impacts of any transition.
compliance risk management on page 84.
We will continue to engage with industry participants and the Financialcrime risk environment official sector to support an orderly transition.
Financial institutions remain under considerable regulatory Climate-related risks scrutiny regarding their ability to prevent and detect financial crime.
Financial crime threats continue to evolve, often in tandem Climate change can create physical risks such as severe weather with geopolitical developments.
The highly speculative, volatile events of increasing severity and or frequency.
The move to a lowand opaque nature of virtual currencies, as well as the pace of carbon economy also creates transition risks both at idiosyncratic new currencies and associated technological developments, and systemic levels, such as through policy, regulatory and create challenges in effectively managing financial crime risks.
These physical and transition risks create evolving regulatory environment continues to present execution potential financial impacts for HSBC through higher risk-weighted challenge.
An increasing trend towards greater data privacy assets RWAs, greater transactional losses and increased capital requirements may affect our ability to effectively manage financial requirements.
There is potential for a rapid deterioration of credit quality in In December 2012, among other agreements, HSBC Holdings plc sectors and or countries most exposed to transition risks, HSBC Holdings consented to a cease-and-desist order with the particularly if policy changes are radical or quickly enacted.
HSBC US Federal Reserve Board FRB and agreed to an undertaking could be significantly impacted by increased credit RWAs and with the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA to comply with losses through exposure to pools of stranded assets if the Group certain forward-looking anti-money laundering AML and does not adequately respond to the changing landscape.
HSBC Holdings also agreed to retain Physical risks from natural disasters, such as floods and an independent compliance monitor who is for FCA purposes a hurricanes, could also impact credit RWAs, while the financial Skilled Person under section 166 of the Financial Services and losses caused by these events could impair asset values and the Markets Act, and for FRB purposes an Independent Consultant creditworthiness of customers.
to produce periodic assessments of the Groups AML and sanctions compliance programme.
In December 2012, HSBC Mitigating actions Holdings also entered into an agreement with the Office of Foreign We are increasingly incorporating climate-related risk, both Assets Control OFAC regarding historical transactions involving physical and transition, into how we manage and oversee risks parties subject to OFAC sanctions.
The Skilled Person Independent internally and with our customers.
Consultant will continue to conduct country reviews and provide periodic reports for a period of time at the FCAs and FRBs A programme of work to measure and monitor the transition risk of our portfolio is underway.
This includes identifying those discretion.
The role of the Skilled Person Independent Consultant customers that need to adapt most rapidly to a transition to a is discussed on page 85. low-carbon economy and integrating climate change risk Mitigating actions considerations into credit risk analysis, decision making and We continued to enhance our financial crime risk management credit policies.
We are investing in the next generation of tools to We have a number of sustainability risk policies covering fight financial crime through the application of advanced sectors that have particular risks and or public exposure.
In analytics and artificial intelligence.
2018, we updated our energy policy to limit the financing of We are developing procedures and controls to manage the high-carbon intensity energy projects, while still supporting risks associated with direct and indirect exposure to virtual energy customers on their transition to a low-carbon economy.
We continue to expand our thinking with regards to stress We continue to work with jurisdictions and relevant testing of climate risks.
Over time, we will articulate narratives international bodies to address data privacy challenges through for a baseline and a number of alternative scenarios, as well as international standards, guidance, and legislation to enable undertake portfolio-specific sensitivity tests.
We expect to learn effective management of financial crime risk.
more about the impacts of climate risk as scenario analysis and stress testing evolves.
We continue to take steps designed to ensure that the reforms we have put in place are both effective and sustainable over the Our enterprise risk management framework continues to be long term.
enhanced to develop and embed the measurement, monitoring and management of climate-related risks.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk An internal Climate Risk Council provides oversight by seeking risks arising from the use of third parties could affect our ability to to develop policy and limit frameworks in order to achieve meet strategic, regulatory or client expectations.
desired portfolios over time, and protect the Group from Mitigating actions climate-related risks that are outside of risk appetite.
We continued to embed our delivery model in the first line of Internally driven defence through a dedicated team.
Processes, controls and technology to assess third-party service providers against key IT systems infrastructure and resilience criteria and associated control monitoring, testing and We continue to invest in the reliability and resilience of our IT assurance have been deployed.
We do so to help prevent disruption A dedicated oversight forum in the second line of defence to customer services, which could result in reputational and monitors the embedding of policy requirements and regulatory damage.
In the fourth quarter of 2018, Mitigating actions regional second line of defence oversight capabilities were established in the major markets.
We continue to invest in transforming how software solutions are developed, delivered and maintained, with a particular Enhanced model risk management expectations focus on providing high-quality, stable and secure services.
As We use models for a range of purposes in managing our business, part of this, we are concentrating on materially improving including regulatory capital calculations, stress testing, credit system resilience and service continuity testing.
We have approvals, financial crime risk management and financial enhanced the security features of our software development life reporting.
Internal and external factors have had a significant cycle and improved our testing processes and tools.
impact on our approach to model risk management.
Moreover, We continue to upgrade our IT systems, simplify our service theadoption of more sophisticated modelling techniques and provision and replace older IT infrastructure and applications.
technology across the industry could also lead to increased Enhancements have led to continued global improvements in modelrisk.
service availability for both our customers and employees.
Mitigating actions Risks associated with workforce capability, capacity We established a model risk management sub-function in the and environmental factors with potential impact on second line of defence to strengthen governance and oversight growth of this risk type.
Our success in delivering our strategic priorities, as well as We further strengthened model oversight by reconfiguring the proactively managing the regulatory environment, depends on the Global Model Oversight Committee, which is chaired by the development and retention of our leadership and high-performing Group Chief Risk Officer and attended by CEOs of the global employees.
The ability to continue to attract, train, motivate and businesses.
retain highly qualified professionals in an employment market where expertise is often mobile and in short supply is critical, We incorporated model risk-specific metrics within the Group particularly as our business lines execute their strategic business risk appetite statement as part of the embedding of model risk outlooks.
This may be affected by external and environmental as a risk discipline.
factors, such as the UKs exit from the EU, changes to immigration We enhanced our model risk governance framework while policies and regulations and tax reforms in key markets that partnering with the business to help enable more effective require active responses.
Although potential people impacts management of model risk in a commercial context.
As we related to the UKs exit from the EU have not yet materialised, we adopt new modelling technologies, we are updating our model continue to monitor retention trends and the recruitment of key risk management framework and governance standards to help roles.
drive the evolution of the overall governance framework to Mitigating actions ensure best practice.
HSBC University is focused on developing opportunities and We are refreshing the existing model risk controls to enable tools for current and future skills, personal skills and leaders to better understanding of control objectives and to provide the create an environment for success.
modelling areas with implementation guidance to enhance effectiveness.
We continue to develop succession plans for key management roles, with actions agreed and reviewed on a regular basis by Data management the Group Management Board.
The Group uses a large number of systems and applications to We actively respond to immigration changes through the global support key business processes and operations.
As a result, we immigration programme.
Other political and regulatory often need to reconcile multiple data sources, including customer challenges are being closely monitored to minimise the impact data sources, to reduce the risk of error.
HSBC, along with other on the attraction and retention of talent and key performers.
organisations, also needs to meet external regulatory obligations such as the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, which HSBC is building the healthiest human system where requires implementation of data privacy and protection capabilities colleagues can thrive.
A number of initiatives have been across our customer data systems.
launched to improve our ways of working and encourage an open and positive culture e. g. simplifying processes and Mitigating actions governance, and adopting new behaviours.
We also promote a We continue to improve data quality across a large number of diverse and inclusive workforce and provide active support systems globally.
Our data management, aggregation and across a wide range of health and well-being activities.
oversight continues to strengthen and enhance the Risks arising from the receipt of services from effectiveness of internal systems and processes.
We are thirdparties implementing data controls for critical processes in the frontoffice systems to improve our data capture at the point of entry.
We utilise third parties for the provision of a range of services, in We have achieved our objectives of meeting a largely common with other financial service providers.
Risks arising from compliant rating in support of the Basel Committee for the use of third-party service providers may be less transparent Banking Supervision BCBS 239 principles.
and therefore more challenging to manage or influence.
It is critical that we ensure we have appropriate risk management Through our global data management framework, we have policies, processes and practices.
These should include adequate commenced embedding governance processes to monitor control overthe selection, governance and oversight of third proactively the quality of critical customer, product and parties, particularly for key processes and controls that could transaction data and resolving associated data issues in a affect operational resilience.
Any deficiency in our management of 72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 timely manner.
We continue to implement controls to improve Employees the reliability of data used by our customers and staff.
The migration of EEA-incorporated clients will require us to We are leveraging our investment in the GDPR initiative to roll strengthen our local teams in the EU, and France in particular.
We out and implement a global and consistent data privacy expect the majority of roles to be filled through hires and we have framework.
Throughout, our objective is to minimise the level of change for our people and ensure any transition is as smooth as possible.
Areas of special interest Given the scale and capabilities of our existing business in France, During 2018, a number of areas have been identified and we are well prepared to take on additional roles and activities.
considered as part of our top and emerging risks because of the Looking beyond the transfer of roles to the EU, we are also effect they may have on the Group.
We have placed particular providing support to our UK employees resident in EEA countries focus on the UK withdrawal from the EuropeanUnion EU in this and EEA employees resident in the UK e. g. on settlement section.
Process of UK withdrawal from the Nevertheless, London will continue to be an important global EuropeanUnion financial centre and the best location for our global headquarters.
As at 31 December 2018, HSBC employed approximately 39,000 The UK is due to formally leave the EU in March 2019.
then, the UK and the EU have to finalise the Article 50 Withdrawal Agreement, which will need to be approved by their respective Across the programme, we have made good progress in terms of parliaments.
A comprehensive trade deal will not be concluded ensuring we are prepared for the UK leaving the EU in the first within this time frame.
A period of transition until 31 December quarter of 2019 under the terms described above.
However, there 2020 has been agreed between the UK and the EU.
However, remain execution risks, many of them linked to the uncertain there will be no legal certainty until this is enshrined in the outcome of negotiations and potentially tight timelines to Withdrawal Agreement.
To ensure continuity of service, implement significant changes to our UK and European operating independent of the outcome of negotiations, our contingency plan models.
If these risks materialise, HSBCs clients and employees is based on the assumption of a scenario whereby the UK exits the are likely to be affected.
The exact impact on our clients will EU without the existing passporting or regulatory equivalence depend on their individual circumstances and, in a worst case framework that supports cross-border business.
scenario, could include disruption to the provision of products and services.
Our programme to manage the impact of the UK leaving the EU was set up in 2017 and now has in excess of 1,000 employees We have carried out detailed reviews of our credit portfolios to covering all businesses and functions.
It focuses on four main determine those sectors and customers most vulnerable to the components: legal entity restructuring: product offering: customer UKs exit from the EU.
For further details, please see Impact of UK migrations: and employees.
economic uncertainty on ECL on page 98.
Legal entity restructuring The Group currently has branches in seven European Economic Risk management Area EEA countries Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, This section describes the enterprise-wide risk management Spain, Italy, Ireland and Czech Republic, which rely on framework, and the significant policies and practices employed by passporting out of the UK.
Assuming a UK departure from the EU HSBC in managing its material risks, both financial and nonwithout the existing passporting or regulatory equivalence financial.
framework that supports cross-border business, this will no longer be possible.
As a result, we have now completed the Our risk management framework establishment of new branches of HSBC France HBFR, our We use an enterprise-wide risk management framework across primary banking entity authorised in the EU, after receiving the organisation and across all risk types, underpinned by our risk regulatory approval in 2018.
We are on track to complete the culture.
business transfer in the first quarter of 2019, and are making good progress on the operational integration of our EEA branch network The framework fosters continuous monitoring, promotes risk into HBFR.
awareness and encourages sound operational and strategic decision making.
It also ensures a consistent approach to Product offering monitoring, managing and mitigating the risks we accept To accommodate for customer migrations and new business after andincur in our activities.
the UKs departure from the EU, we are expanding and enhancing The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects of our existing product offering in France, the Netherlands and the framework, including governance and structure, our risk Ireland.
HBFRs euro clearing capabilities are now available and management tools and our risk culture, which together help align further product launches are planned during the first quarter of employee behaviour with our risk appetite.
Customer migrations The UKs departure from the EU is likely to have an impact on our clients operating models, including their working capital requirements, investment decisions and financial markets infrastructure access.
Our priority is to provide continuity of service, and while our intention is to minimise the level of change for our customers, we will be required to migrate some EEAincorporated clients from the UK to HBFR, or another EEA entity.
We are in active dialogue with affected clients to make the transition as smooth as possible.
We are organising client events and communications to provide clients with a better understanding of these implications.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Key components of our risk management framework HSBC Values and risk culture The Board approves the Groups risk appetite, plans and performance targets.
It sets the tone from the top and is advised by the Group Risk Non-executive risk governance Committee and the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee see page 158.
Risk governance Our executive risk governance structure is responsible for the enterpriseExecutive risk governance wide management of all risks, including key policies and frameworks for the management of risk within the Group see pages 75 and 77.
Our three lines of defence model defines roles and responsibilities for Roles and Three lines of defence model risk management.
An independent Global Risk function helps ensure the responsibilities necessary balance in risk return decisions see page 75.
Risk appetite The Group has several processes to identify assess, monitor, manage Enterprise-wide risk management tools Processes and tools and report risks to ensure we remain within our risk appetite see pages 74 to 77.
Active risk management: identification assessment, monitoring, management and reporting Policies and procedures define the minimum requirements for the Policies and procedures controls required to manage our risks.
The operational risk management framework defines minimum Control activities standards and processes for managing operational risks and internal Internal controls controls see page 84.
The Group has systems and or processes that support the identification, Systems and infrastructure capture and exchange of information to support risk management activities.
Systems and tools Our risk culture Risk governance Risk culture refers to HSBCs norms, attitudes and behaviours The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effective related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management.
management of risk and approves HSBCs risk appetite.
It is advised on risk-related matters by the Group Risk Committee HSBC has long recognised the importance of a strong risk culture, GRC and the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee the fostering of which is a key responsibility of senior executives.
Our risk culture is reinforced by the HSBC Values and our Global Standards programme.
It is instrumental in aligning the behaviours Executive accountability for the ongoing monitoring, assessment of individuals with our attitude to assuming and managing risk, andmanagement of the risk environment and the effectiveness of which helps to ensure that our risk profile remains in line with our the risk management framework resides with the Group Chief Risk risk appetite.
He is supported by the Risk Management Meeting ofthe Group Management Board RMM.
We use clear and consistent employee communication on risk toconvey strategic messages and to set the tone from senior The management of financial crime risk resides with the Group management and the Board.
We also deploy mandatory training Chief Compliance Officer.
He is supported by the Financial Crime on risk and compliance topics to embed skills and understanding Risk Management Meeting, as described under Financial crime in order to strengthen our risk culture and reinforce the attitude to risk management on page 85. risk in the behaviour expected of employees, as described in our Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated risk policies.
tosenior managers with individual accountability for decision We operate a global whistleblowing platform, HSBC Confidential, making.
All employees have a role to play in risk management.
allowing staff to report matters of concern confidentially.
We These roles are defined using the three lines of defence model, alsomaintain an external email address for concerns about which takes into account the Groups business and functional accounting and internal financial controls or auditing matters structures as described in the following commentary, under 'Our @hsbc.
The Group has a strict policy responsibilities.
prohibiting retaliation against those who raise their concerns.
We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help Allallegations of retaliation reported are escalated to senior ensure appropriate oversight and accountability of risk, which management.
For further details on whistleblowing, see page 25. facilitates reporting and escalation to the RMM.
This structure is For details on the governance of our whistleblowing procedures, summarised in the following table.
Our risk culture is also reinforced by our approach to remuneration.
Individual awards, including those for senior executives, are based on compliance with the HSBC Values and theachievement of financial and non-financial objectives, whichare aligned to our risk appetite and global strategy.
For further information on remuneration, see the Directors remuneration report on page 172.
74 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance structure for the management of risk Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Risk Management Meeting Group Chief Risk Officer Supporting the Group Chief Risk Officer in exercising Board-delegated risk oftheGroup Management Chief Legal Officer management authority Board Group Chief Executive Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the enterprise risk Group Chief Financial Officer management framework All other Group Managing Directors Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing possible risk impacts and taking appropriate action Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and conduct Global Risk Management Group Chief Risk Officer Supporting the Group Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the Board Chief Risk Officers of HSBCs Global Risk function, setting priorities and providing oversight globalbusinesses and regions Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk Heads of Global Risk sub-functions across the Global Risk function Global business regional Global business regional Chief Supporting the Chief Risk Officer in exercising Board-delegated risk management risk management meetings RiskOfficer authority Global business regional Chief Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing the possible risk Executive impact and taking appropriate action Global business regional Chief Implementation of risk appetite and the enterprise risk management framework Financial Officer Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating actions Global business regional heads Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls ofglobal functions The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 158. decisions that are based on balancing risk and return, and making Our responsibilities the best use of our capital.
The Group RAS is interlinked with the All employees are responsible for identifying and managing Groups strategic and financial plans, as well as remuneration, and riskwithin the scope of their role as part of the three lines of is therefore forward-looking in describing the Groups desired risk defence model.
The RAS consists of qualitative statements and Three lines of defence quantitative metrics, covering financial and non-financial risks and is formally approved by the Board every six months on the To create a robust control environment to manage risks, we use an recommendation of the GRC.
It is fundamental to the development activity-based three lines of defence model.
This model delineates of business line strategies, strategic and business planning, and management accountabilities and responsibilities forrisk senior management balanced scorecards.
management and the control environment.
At a Group level, performance against the RAS is reported to the The model underpins our approach to risk management by GRMM on a monthly basis so that any actual performance that clarifying responsibility, encouraging collaboration, and enabling falls outside the approved risk appetite is discussed and efficient coordination of risk and control activities.
Thethree lines appropriate mitigating actions are determined.
This reporting of defence are summarised below: allows risks to be promptly identified and mitigated, and informs The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible risk-adjusted remuneration to drive a strong risk culture.
foridentifying, recording, reporting and managing them, Global businesses, regions and strategically important countries andensuring that the right controls and assessments are are required to have their own RASs, which are monitored to inplace to mitigate them.
ensure they remain aligned with the Groups.
All RASs and The second line of defence sets the policy and guidelines business activities are guided and underpinned by qualitative formanaging specific risk areas, provides advice and guidance principles.
Additionally, for key risk areas, quantitative metrics are in relation to the risk, and challenges the first lineof defence on defined along with appetite and tolerance thresholds.
Risk map The third line of defence is our Internal Audit function, The Group risk map provides a point-in-time view of the risk whichprovides independent and objective assurance of profiles of countries, regions and global businesses across HSBCs theadequacy of the design and operational effectiveness ofthe risk taxonomy.
It assesses the potential for these risks to have a Groups risk management framework and control governance material impact on the Groups financial results, reputation and process.
the sustainability of its business.
Risks that have an amber or Global Risk function red risk rating require monitoring and mitigating action plans to be either in place or initiated to manage the risk down to We have a Global Risk function, headed by the Group Chief Risk acceptable levels.
Officer, which is responsible for the Groups risk management framework.
This responsibility includes establishing global policy, Descriptions of our material banking and insurance risks are set out monitoring risk profiles, and forward-looking risk identification and onpage77.
Global Risk is made up of sub-functions covering all Top and emerging risks risks to our operations.
Global Risk forms part of the second line of We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forwarddefence.
It is independent from the global businesses, including looking view of issues with the potential to threaten the execution sales and trading functions, to provide challenge, appropriate of our strategy or operations over the medium to longterm.
oversight and balance in risk return decisions.
We proactively assess the internal and external risk environment, Enterprise-wide risk management tools as well as review the themes identified across our regions and The Group uses a range of tools to identify, monitor and manage global businesses, for any risks that may require global escalation, risk.
The key enterprise-wide risk management tools are as updating our top and emerging risks as necessary.
follows: We define a top risk as a thematic issue that may form and Risk appetite crystallise in between six months and one year, and that has thepotential to materially affect the Groups financial results, The risk appetite statement RAS sets out the aggregate level reputation or business model.
It may arise across any combination and types of risk that HSBC is willing to accept to achieve its of risk types, regions or global businesses.
The impact may be well business objectives.
It provides a benchmark for business HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk understood by senior management and some mitigating actions The following table shows the results of the stress test for the past may already be in place.
Stress tests ofvarying granularity may three years, and reflects HSBCs resilience.
From a starting CET1 also have been carried out to assess the impact.
ratio of 14.6% at the end of 2017, the BoEs 2018 stress test results showed a projected minimum stressed CET1 ratio of 9.1% An emerging risk is a thematic issue with large unknown on an IFRS 9 transitional basis, after the impact of strategic components that may form and crystallise beyond a one-year time management actions.
If it were to materialise, it could have a material effect on the Groups long-term strategy, profitability and or reputation.
Results of Bank of England stress tests for the past three years Existing mitigation plans are likely to be minimal, reflecting the uncertain nature of these risks at this stage.
Somehigh-level 2018 2017 2016 analysis and or stress testing may have beencarried out to assess % % % the potential impact.
CET1 ratio at scenario start point 14.6 13.6 11.9 Minimum stressed CET1 ratio after Our current top and emerging risks are discussed on page69.
9.1 8.9 9.1 strategic management actions Stress testing Fall in CET1 ratio 5.5 4.7 2.8 HSBC operates a wide-ranging stress testing programme that Source: Bank of England.
supports our risk management and capital planning.
It includes Data is presented in terms of the minimum CET1 ratio on an IFRS 9 transitional execution of stress tests mandated by our regulators.
Our stress basis, reached net of strategic management actions.
testing is supported by dedicated teams and infrastructure, and is Internal stress tests are an important element in our risk overseen at the most senior levels of the Group.
management and capital management frameworks.
Our capital Our stress testing programme assesses our capital strength plan is assessed through a range of stress scenarios that explore through a rigorous examination of our resilience to external risks identified by management.
They include potential adverse shocks.
It also helps us understand and mitigate risks and informs macroeconomic, geopolitical and operational risk events, and our decisions about capital levels.
As well as undertaking other potential events that are specific to HSBC.
The selection of regulatory-driven stress tests, we conduct our own internal stress scenarios reflects our top and emerging risks identification tests.
process and our risk appetite.
Stress testing analysis helps Many of our regulators including the Bank of England BoE, management understand the nature and extent of vulnerabilities to the Federal Reserve Board FRB and the Hong Kong Monetary which the Group is exposed.
Using this information, management Authority HKMA use stress testing as a prudential regulatory decides whether risks can or should be mitigated through management actions or, if they were to crystallise, should be tool, and the Group has focused significant governance and resources to meet their requirements.
This in turn informs decisions about preferred capital levels.
Bank of England stress test results for 2018 A particular area of focus during the year has been the analysis of The annual cyclical scenario ACS used in the BoEs 2018 stress the potential impact of a range of outcomes relating to the UKs test was the same as that used in 2017 to allow the BoE to isolate exit from the EU.
As part of our internal stress testing programme, the impact on the stress results of the introduction of IFRS 9 in a number of internal macroeconomic and event-driven scenarios 2018.
The scenario specified a global downturn with severe effects were considered to support managements planning for, and in the UK, US, Hong Kong and mainland China, which accounted assessment of, the impact of the UKs exit.
In addition, the BoE for approximately two-thirds of HSBCs RWAs at the end of 2017. judged the severity of the 2018 ACS sufficient to encompass We estimated that the economic shock to global GDP in this outcomes based on a disorderly departure from the EU.
scenario was about as severe as in the global financial crisis of We conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group and, where 20072009, but with a greater impact on emerging markets.
In this scenario for example, there was a 1.2% contraction in the required, subsidiary entity level in order to understand which potential extreme conditions would make our business model nonChinese economy in the first year.
In addition, the ACS featured a viable.
Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses and 32% depreciation of sterling in the first year and a rise of UK base vulnerabilities we might face, and helps inform early warning rates to 4%.
triggers, management actions and contingency plans designed to The assumed GDP growth rates are detailed in the following table.
In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each major 2017 2018 2019 2020 HSBC subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and event- % % % % driven scenario analyses specific to its region.
They also UK 1.6 4.7 0.7 1.4 participate, as required, in the regulatory stress testing US 2.5 3.5 0.7 1.4 programmes of the jurisdictions in which they operate, such as the Mainland China 6.8 1.2 3.7 5.0 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Dodd-Frank Act Hong Kong 3.3 7.9 1.1 2.3 stress test programmes in the US, and the stress tests of the HKMA.
Global functions and businesses also perform bespoke Source: Bank of England.
PRA assumed GDP growth rates are shown in terms of fourth quarter on fourth stress testing to inform their assessment of risks in potential quarter annual changes scenarios.
The Group stress testing programme is overseen by the GRC and In 2018, the results for HSBC as published by the BoE showed that our capital ratios, after taking account of CRD IV restrictions and results are reported, where appropriate, to the RMM and GRC.
strategic management actions, exceeded the BoEs requirements on both an IFRS 9 transitional and non-transitional basis.
This outcome reflected our strong capital position, conservative risk appetite and diversified geographical and business mix.
76 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our material banking and insurance risks The material risk types associated with our banking and insurance manufacturing operations are described in the following tables: Description of risks banking operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and managementof risk Credit risk see page 79 Credit risk is the risk of financial Credit risk arises Credit risk is: loss if a customer or counterparty principally from direct measured as the amount that could be lost if a customer or counterparty fails to fails to meet an obligation under a lending, trade finance and make repayments: contract.
leasing business, but also monitored using various internal risk management measures and within limits from certain other approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities: and products such as managed through a robust risk control framework, which outlines clear guarantees and andconsistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers.
Liquidity and funding risk see page 80 Liquidity risk is the risk that we do Liquidity risk arises from Liquidity and funding risk is: not have sufficient financial mismatches in the timing measured using a range of metrics, including liquidity coverage ratio and net stable resources to meet our obligations of cash flows.
funding ratio: as they fall due or that we can only Funding risk arises when assessed through the internal liquidity adequacy assessment process ILAAP : do so at an excessive cost.
illiquid asset positions monitored against the Groups liquidity and funding risk framework: and Funding risk is the risk that funding cannot be funded at the managed on a stand-alone basis with no reliance on any Group entity unless preconsidered to be sustainable, and expected terms and when committed or central bank unless this represents routine established business-astherefore used to fund assets, is required.
Market risk see page 81 Market risk is the risk that Exposure to market risk is Market risk is: separated into two movements in market factors, such measured using sensitivities, value at risk VaR and stress testing, giving a detailed portfolios: trading and as foreign exchange rates, interest picture of potential gains and losses for a range of market movements and scenarios, non-trading.
rates, credit spreads, equity prices as well as tail risks over specified time horizons: Market risk exposures and commodity prices, will reduce monitored using VaR, stress testing and other measures, including the sensitivity of arising from our insurance our income or the value of our operations are discussed net interest income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange: and on page145.
managed using risk limits approved by the RMM and the risk management meeting in various global businesses.
Operational risk see page 84 Operational risk is the risk to Operational risk arises Operational risk is: achieving our strategy or objectives from day-to-day operations measured using the risk and control assessment process, which assesses the level of as a result of inadequate or failed or external events, and is risk and the effectiveness of controls, and is also measured for economic capital internal processes, people and relevant to every aspect of management using risk event losses and scenario analysis: systems or from external events.
monitored using key indicators and other internal control activities: and Regulatory compliance risk managed primarily by global business and functional managers who identify and and financial crime assess risks, implement controls to manage themand monitor the effectiveness of compliance risk are these controls using theoperational risk management framework.
Regulatory compliance risk see page 84 Regulatory compliance risk is the Regulatory compliance risk Regulatory compliance risk is: risk that we fail to observe the is part ofoperational risk, measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments, regulatory letter and spirit of all relevant laws, and arises from the risks feedback and the judgement and assessment of our regulatory compliance teams: codes, rules, regulations and associated with breaching monitored against the first line of defence risk and control assessments, the results of standards of good market practice, our duty to clients and the monitoring and control assurance activities of the second line of defence and incur fines and penalties and other counterparties, functions, and the results of internal andexternal audits and regulatory inspections: suffer damage to our business as inappropriate market and aconsequence.
conduct and breaching managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and procedures, other regulatory training employees in them, and monitoring activity to help ensure their observance.
Proactive risk control and or remediation work is undertaken where required.
Financial crime risk see page 85 Financial crime risk is the riskthat Financial crime risk is part Financial crime risk is: we knowingly or unknowingly help of operational risk and measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments, regulatory parties tocommit or to further arises from day-to-day feedback and the judgement and assessment of our financial crime risk teams: potentially illegal activity through banking operations.
monitored against our financial crime risk appetite statements and metrics, the HSBC.
results of the monitoring and control activities of the second line of defence functions, and the results of internal andexternal audits and regulatory inspections: and managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and procedures, training employees in them, and monitoring activity to help ensure their observance.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Description of risks banking operations continued Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and managementof risk Other material risks Reputational risk see page 86 Reputational risk is the risk of Primary reputational risks Reputational risk is: failing to meet stakeholder arise directly from an measured by reference to our reputation as indicated by our dealings with all relevant expectations as a result of any action or inaction by stakeholders, including media, regulators, customers and employees: event, behaviour, action or HSBC, its employees or monitored through a reputational risk management framework that is integrated into inaction, either by HSBC, our associated parties that are the Groups broader risk management framework: and employees or those with whom we not the consequence of managed by every member of staff, and covered by a number of policies and are associated.
There is a clear structure of committees and individuals charged with Secondary reputational mitigating reputational risk.
risks are those arising indirectly and are a result of a failure to control any other risks.
Pension risk see page 87 Pension risk is the risk of increased Pension risk arises from Pension risk is: costs to HSBC from offering postinvestments delivering an measured in terms of the schemes ability to generate sufficient funds to meet the employment benefit plans to its inadequate return, adverse cost of their accrued benefits: employees.
changes in interest rates monitored through the specific risk appetite that has been developed at both Group orinflation, or members and regional levels: and living longer than managed locally through the appropriate pension risk governance structure and expected.
Pension risk globally through the Global Pensions Oversight Forum and ultimately the RMM.
alsoincludes operational and reputational risk of sponsoring pension plans.
Sustainability risk see page 87 Sustainability risk is the riskthat Sustainability risk arises Sustainability risk is: financial services provided to from the provision of measured by assessing the potential sustainability effect of a customers activities customers by theGroup indirectly financial services to and assigning a sustainability risk rating to allhigh-risk transactions: result inunacceptable impacts on companies or projects that monitored quarterly by the RMM and monthly by the Groups sustainability risk people or the environment.
indirectly result function: and inunacceptable impacts managed using sustainability risk policies covering project finance lending and on people or on the sector-based sustainability policies for sectors and themes with potentially large environment.
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are regulated separately Group oversight.
Our insurance operations are also subject to from our banking operations.
Risks in our insurance entities are some of the same risks as our banking operations, which are managed using methodologies and processes that are subject to covered by the Groups risk management processes.
Description of risks insurance manufacturing operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and managementof risk Financial risk see page 145 Our ability to effectively match Exposure to financial risk Financial risk is: liabilities arising under insurance arises from: measured i for credit risk, in terms of economic capital and the amount that contracts with the asset portfolios market risk affecting the fair could be lost if a counterparty fails to make repayments: ii for market risk, in that back them is contingent on values of financial assets or terms of economic capital, internal metrics and fluctuations in key financial the management of financial risks their future cash flows: variables: and iii for liquidity risk, in terms of internal metrics including stressed and the extent towhich these are credit risk: and operational cash flow projections: borne by policyholders.
liquidity risk of entities monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated authorities: and being unable to managed through a robust risk control framework, which outlines clear and makepayments to consistent policies, principles and guidance.
This includes using product design, policyholders as they asset liability matching and bonus rates.
Insurance risk see page 146 Insurance risk is the risk that, over The cost of claims and benefits Insurance risk is: time, the cost of insurance policies can be influenced bymany measured in terms of life insurance liabilities and economic capital allocated to written, including claims and factors, including mortality and insurance underwriting risk: benefits, may exceed the total morbidity experience, as well monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated authorities: and amount of premiums and as lapse and surrender rates.
managed through a robust risk control framework, which outlines clear and investment income received.
consistent policies, principles and guidance.
This includes using product design, underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures.
78 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The principal objectives of our credit risk management are: Credit risk management Details of changes in our credit risk profile in 2018 can be found on page88, to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible in Key developments and risk profile in 2018. lending, and robust risk policies and control frameworks: There were no material changes to the policies and practices to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, forthe management of credit risk in 2018. implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under actual and scenario conditions: and Adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, HSBC adopted the requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments their costs and their mitigation.
on 1 January 2018, with the exception of the provisions relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities Concentration of exposure designated at fair value, which were adopted on 1 January 2017.
Audited The adoption of IFRS 9 did not result in any significant change to Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of HSBC's business model, or that of our four global businesses.
This counterparties or exposures have comparable economic included our strategy, country presence, product offerings and characteristics, or such counterparties are engaged in similar target customer segments.
activities or operate in the same geographical areas or industry We have established credit risk management processes and we sectors so that their collective ability to meet contractual actively assess the impact of economic developments in key obligations is uniformly affected by changes in economic, political markets on specific customers, customer segments or portfolios.
We use a number of controls andmeasures to we foresee changes in credit conditions, we take mitigating action, minimise undue concentration of exposure inour portfolios across including the revision of risk appetites or limits and tenors, as industries, countries and global businesses.
In addition, we continue to evaluate the terms under and counterparty limits, approval and review controls, and stress which we provide credit facilities within the context of individual testing.
customer requirements, the quality of the relationship, local Credit quality of financial instruments regulatory requirements, market practices and our local market Audited position.
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based As a result of IFRS 9 adoption, management has additional insight approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to and measures not previously utilised which, over time, may support the calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital influence our risk appetite and risk management processes.
IFRS 9 process The five credit quality classifications each encompass a range of The IFRS 9 process comprises three main areas: modelling and granular internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and data: implementation: and governance.
retail lending businesses, and the external ratings attributed by external agencies to debt securities.
Modelling and data For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, Prior to the implementation of IFRS 9, the Risk function had preexternal ratings have been aligned to the five quality classifications existing Basel and behavioural scorecards in most geographies.
based upon the mapping of related customer risk rating CRR to These were then enhanced or supplemented to address the IFRS 9 external credit rating.
requirements, with the appropriate governance and independent review.
Wholesale lending Implementation The CRR 10-grade scale summarises a more granular underlying 23-grade scale of obligor probability of default PD.
All corporate A centralised impairment engine performs the expected credit loss customers are rated using the 10- or 23-grade scale, depending on ECL calculation using data, which is subject to a number of the degree of sophistication of the Basel approach adopted for the validation checks and enhancements, from a variety of client, exposure.
Where possible, these checks and processes are performed in a globally consistent and centralised Each CRR band is associated with an external rating grade by manner.
reference to long-run default rates for that grade, represented by the average of issuer-weighted historical default rates.
This Governance mapping between internal and external ratings is indicative and A series of regional management review forums has been may vary over time.
established in key sites and regions in order to review and approve Retail lending the impairment results.
Regional management review forums have representatives from Credit Risk and Finance.
The key site and Previously, we disclosed retail lending credit quality under IAS 39, regional approvals are reported up to the global business which was based on expected-loss percentages.
Now, retail impairment committee for final approval of the Groups ECL for lending credit quality is disclosed on an IFRS 9 basis, which is the period.
Required members of the committee are the global based on a 12-month point-in-time PIT probability-weighted heads of Wholesale Credit, Market Risk, and Retail Banking and probability of default PD.
Wealth Management 'RBWM' Risk, as well as the global business CFOs and the Group Chief Accounting Officer.
Credit risk sub-function Audited Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive together with the authority to sub-delegate them.
The Credit Risk sub-function in Global Risk is responsible for the key policies and processes for managing credit risk, which include formulating Group credit policies and risk rating frameworks, guiding the Groups appetite for credit risk exposures, undertaking independent reviews and objective assessment of credit risk, and monitoring performance and management of portfolios.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Credit quality classification Sovereign debt Other debt securities securities Wholesale lending and bills and bills and derivatives Retail lending 12-month Basel 12 month External credit External credit Internal credit probability of Internal credit probabilityFootnotes rating rating rating default % rating weighted PD % Quality classification 1,2 Strong BBB and above Aand above CRR 1 to CRR 2 0 0.169 Band 1 and 2 0.000 - 0.500 Good BBBto BB BBB to BBBCRR 3 0.170 0.740 Band 3 0.501 - 1.500 BBto B and BB to B and Satisfactory CRR 4 to CRR 5 0.741 4.914 Band 4 and 5 1.501 - 20.000 unrated unrated Sub-standard Bto C Bto C CRR 6 to CRR 8 4.915 99.999 Band 6 20.001 - 99.999 Credit impaired Default Default CRR 9 to CRR 10 100 Band 7 100 For footnotes, see page 147.
Quality classification definitions Strong exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and or low levels of expected loss.
Good exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk.
Satisfactory exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average-to-fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with moderate default risk.
Sub-standard exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern.
Credit-impaired exposures have been assessed as described on Note 1.2 d on the Financial Statements.
Renegotiated loans and forbearance Impairment assessment Audited Audited Forbearance describes concessions made on the contractual For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and terms of a loan in response to an obligors financial difficulties.
financial investments, see Note 1.2 d on the Financial Statements.
A loan is classed as renegotiated when we modify the Write-off of loans and advances contractual payment terms on concessionary terms because we Audited have significant concerns about the borrowers ability to meet For details of our policy on the write-off of loans and advances, contractual payments when due.
see Note 1.2 d on the Financial Statements.
Non-payment-related concessions e. g. covenant waivers, while Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally potential indicators of impairment, do not trigger identification as written off at between 150 and 210 days past due.
period runs until the end of the month in which the account Loans that have been identified as renegotiated retain this becomes 180 days contractually delinquent.
Write-off periods may designation until maturity or derecognition.
be extended, generally to no more than 360 days past due.
However, in exceptional circumstances, they may be extended For details of our policy on derecognised renegotiated loans, see Note 1.2 d on the Financial Statements.
For secured facilities, write-off should occur upon repossession of Credit quality of renegotiated loans collateral, receipt of proceeds via settlement, or determination that On execution of a renegotiation, the loan will also be classified as recovery of the collateral will not be pursued.
credit impaired if it is not already so classified.
In wholesale Any secured assets maintained on the balance sheet beyond 60 lending, all facilities with a customer, including loans that have not months of consecutive delinquency-driven default require been modified, are considered credit impaired following the additional monitoring and review to assess the prospect of identification of a renegotiated loan.
Those loans that are considered credit impaired retain this There are exceptions in a few countries where local regulation or classification for a minimum of one year.
Renegotiated loans will legislation constrain earlier write-off, or where the realisation of continue to be disclosed as credit impaired until there is sufficient collateral for secured real estate lending takes more time.
In the evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of nonevent of bankruptcy or analogous proceedings, write-off may payment of future cash flows the evidence typically comprises a occur earlier than the maximum periods stated above.
Collection history of payment performance against the original or revised procedures may continue after write-off.
terms, and there is no other objective evidence of credit impairments.
For retail lending generally, renegotiated loans retain Liquidity and funding risk management this classification until maturity or write-off.
Details of HSBCs liquidity and funding risk management framework LFRF Renegotiated loans and recognition of expected credit can be found in the Groups Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2018. losses Liquidity and funding risk management framework Audited The LFRF aims to allow us to withstand very severe liquidity For retail lending, unsecured renegotiated loans are generally stresses.
It is designed to be adaptable to changing business segmented from other parts of the loan portfolio.
Renegotiated models, markets and regulations.
The Group Treasurer, who expected credit loss assessments reflect the higher rates of losses reports to the Group Chief Financial Officer, has responsibility for typically encountered with renegotiated loans.
For wholesale the oversight of the LFRF.
Asset, Liability and Capital Management lending, renegotiated loans are typically assessed individually.
ALCM teams are responsible for the application of the LFRF at a Credit risk ratings are intrinsic to the impairment assessments.
The local operating entity level.
This comprises the following elements: individual impairment assessment takes into account the higher risk of the future non-payment inherent in renegotiated loans.
80 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 stand-alone management of liquidity and funding by operating Market risk management entity: Details of changes in our market risk profile in 2018 can be found on page 88, in Key developments and risk profile in 2018. minimum liquidity coverage ratio LCR requirement: There were no material changes to our policies and practices for minimum net stable funding ratio NSFR requirement: the management of market risk in 2018. legal entity depositor concentration limit: Market risk in global businesses three-month and 12-month cumulative rolling term contractual The following diagram summarises the main business areas where maturity limits covering deposits from banks, deposits from non-bank financial institutions and securities issued: trading and non-trading market risks reside, and the market risk measures used to monitor and limit exposures.
annual individual liquidity adequacy assessment by principal operating entity: Trading risk Non-trading risk minimum LCR requirement by currency: Foreign exchange and Structural foreign commodities management and monitoring of intra-day liquidity: Risk types exchange 3 Interest rates Interest rates liquidity funds transfer pricing: and Credit spreads Credit spreads Equities forward-looking funding assessments.
4 4 GB&M, BSM, GPB, CMB Global business GB&M and BSM Risk governance and oversight and RBWM The elements of the LFRF are underpinned by a robust governance VaR | Sensitivity | Stress VaR | Sensitivity | Stress Risk measure testing testing framework, the two major elements of which are: Group, regional and entity level Asset and Liability For footnotes, see page 147.
Where appropriate, we apply similar risk management policies and Annual internal liquidity adequacy assessment process measurement techniques to both trading and non-trading ILAAP for principal operating entities used to validate risk portfolios.
Our objective is to manage and control market risk tolerance and set risk appetite.
exposures to optimise return on risk while maintaining a market Liquidity and funding are predominantly managed at an entity profile consistent with our established risk appetite.
Where appropriate, management may be expanded to cover The nature of the hedging and risk mitigation strategies performed a consolidated group of legal entities or narrowed to a principal across the Group corresponds to the market risk management office branch of a wider legal entity to reflect the management instruments available within each operating jurisdiction.
These under internal or regulatory definitions.
strategies range from the use of traditional market instruments, The RMM reviews and agrees annually the list of countries, legal such as interest rate swaps, to more sophisticated hedging entities or consolidated groups it directly oversees and the strategies to address a combination of risk factors arising at the composition of these entities.
This list forms the basis of liquidity portfolio level.
There were no material changes to the policies and practices for the management of liquidity and funding risk in 2018.
HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings primary sources of liquidity are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intra-Group loans and securities, and interest earned on its own liquid funds.
HSBC Holdings also raises funds in the debt capital markets to meet the Groups minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities.
HSBC Holdings uses this liquidity to meet its obligations, including interest and principal repayments on external debt liabilities, operating expenses and collateral on derivative transactions.
HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of credit-related commitments and guarantees and similar contracts issued relating to its subsidiaries.
Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of HSBC Holdings ability to finance the commitments and guarantees and the likelihood ofthe need arising.
HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding company level.
During 2018, consistent with the Groups capital plan, the Groups subsidiaries did not experience any significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned dividends or payments.
However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
HSBC Holdings currently has sufficient liquidity to meet its present requirements.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Market risk governance Audited Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the RMM for HSBC Holdings.
These limits are allocated across business lines and to the Groups legal entities.
HSBC Holdings Board GB&M manages market risk, where the majority of HSBCs total VaR excluding insurance and almost all trading VaR resides, using risklimits approved by the RMM.
VaR limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with market liquidity being aprimary factor in determining the level of limits set.
Global Risk is Group Chairman responsible for setting market risk management policies and measurement techniques.
Group Chief Executive Each major operating entity has an independent market risk management and control sub-function, which General isresponsible for measuring market risk exposures, monitoring and reporting these exposures against the measures prescribed limits on a dailybasis.
The market risk limits are governed according tothe framework illustrated to Risk Management the left.
Meeting of the GMB Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising on each product in its business and to transfer them to either its local GB&M unit for management, or to separate books managed under the supervision ofthe local ALCO.
Group traded risk Model risk is governed through Model Oversight Committees MOCs at the regional and global Wholesale Credit and Market Risk levels.
They have direct oversight and approval responsibility for all traded risk models used forrisk measurement and management andstress testing.
We are committed to the ongoing development Entity risk management of our in-house risk models.
committee The Markets MOC reports into the Group MOC, which oversees all model risk types at Group level.
The GroupMOC informs the RMM about material issues at least twice a year.
The RMM is the Groups Designated Committee, according to regulatory rules, and has delegated day-to-day governance ofall traded risk models to Specific the Markets MOC.
Principal office manager measures Global Risk enforces trading in permissible instruments approved for each site, new product approval procedures, restricting trading in the more complex derivative products which are only allowed in offices with appropriate levels of product expertise, and robust control systems.
Business desk trader The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the Market risk measures underlying exposures.
The nature of the VaR models means that Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures an increase in observed market volatility will lead to anincrease in Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures VaR without any changes in the underlying positions.
while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk VaR model limitations appetite.
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR should always be viewed in We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures the context of its limitations.
For example: including sensitivity analysis, VaR and stresstesting.
Use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events Sensitivity analysis may not encompass all potential events, particularly extreme Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market ones.
factor movements on specific instruments or portfolios, including The use of a holding period assumes that all positions can interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices, such as beliquidated or the risks offset during that period, which may the effect of a one basis point change in yield.
We use sensitivity not fully reflect the market risk arising at times ofsevere measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk illiquidity, when the holding period may be insufficient to type.
Sensitivity limits are set forportfolios, products and risk liquidate or hedge all positions fully.
types, with the depth of the market being a principal factor in The use of a 99% confidence level does not take into account determining the level.
losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence.
Value at risk VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the Audited close of business and therefore does not necessarily reflect Value at risk VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses intra-day exposures.
on risk positions as a result of movements in market ratesand Risk not in VaR framework prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
The use of VaR is integrated into market risk The risks not in VaR RNIV framework aims to capture and management and calculated for all trading positions regardless of capitalise material market risks that are not adequately covered in how we capitalise them.
Where there is not an approved internal the VaR model.
model, we use the appropriate local rules to capitalise exposures.
Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and are either In addition, we calculate VaR for non-trading portfolios to have a incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or complete picture of risk.
Where we do not calculate VaR explicitly, quantified through the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress test we use alternative tools as summarised in the Stress testing approach within the RNIV framework.
The outcome of the VaRsection below.
based RNIV approach is included in the overall VaR calculation but Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that excluded from the VaR measure used for regulatory back-testing.
incorporates the following features: In addition, a stressed VaR RNIV is computed for the risk factors considered in the VaR-based RNIV approach.
historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest Stress-type RNIVs include a gap risk exposure measure, to capture rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities: risk on non-recourse margin loans, and a fide-peg risk measure, to capture risk to pegged and heavily-managed currencies.
potential market movements utilised for VaR, which are calculated with reference to data from the past two years: and Stress testing VaR measures, which are calculated to a 99% confidence level Stress testing is an important procedure that is integrated intoour and use a one-day holding period.
market risk management framework to evaluate the potential 82 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, Governance and structure events or movements in a set of financial variables.
Insuch The ALCM function monitors and controls non-traded interest rate scenarios, losses can be much greater than those predicted by risk.
This includes reviewing and challenging the business prior to VaR modelling.
the release of new products and in respect of proposed Stress testing is implemented at legal entity, regional and overall behavioural assumptions used for hedging activities.
A set of scenarios is used consistently across all function is also responsible for maintaining and updating the regions within the Group.
Scenarios are tailored to capture the transfer pricing framework, informing the ALCO of the Groups relevant potential events or market movements ateach level.
The overall banking book interest rate risk exposure and managing the risk appetite around potential stress losses forthe Group is set and balance sheet in conjunction with BSM.
BSM manages the banking book interest rate positions transferred Market risk reverse stress tests are designed to identify to it within the market risk limits approved by RMM.
Effective vulnerabilities in our portfolios by looking for scenarios that lead to governance of BSM is supported by the dual reporting lines it has loss levels considered severe for the relevant portfolio.
These to the Chief Executive Officer of GB&M andto the Group scenarios may be quite local or idiosyncratic in nature, and Treasurer, with Risk acting as a second line of defence.
The global complement the systematic top-down stress testing.
businesses can only transfer non-trading assets and liabilities to BSM provided BSM can economically hedge the risk it receives.
Stressed VaR and stress testing, together with reverse stress Hedging is generally executed through interest rate derivatives or testing and the management of gap risk, provide management fixed-rate government bonds.
Any interest rate risk that BSM withinsights regarding the tail risk beyond VaR, for which cannot economically hedge is not transferred and will remain HSBCs appetite is limited.
within the global business where the risks originate.
Trading portfolios Measurement of interest rate risk in the banking book Back-testing The ALCM function uses a number of measures to monitor and We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by backcontrol interest rate risk in the banking book, including: testing them against both actual and hypothetical profit and loss non-traded VaR: against the corresponding VaR numbers.
Hypothetical profit and net interest income sensitivity: and loss excludes non-modelled items such as fees, commissions and revenue of intra-day transactions.
economic value of equity EVE.
We would expect, on average, to see two or three profits and two Non-traded VaR or three losses in excess of VaR at the 99% confidence level over a Non-traded VaR uses the same models as those used in the one-year period.
The actual number of profits or losses in excess trading book and excludes both HSBC Holdings and the elements of VaR over this period can therefore be used to gauge how well of risk that are not transferred to BSM.
NII sensitivity We back-test our VaR at various levels of our Group entity hierarchy.
A principal part of our management of non-traded interest rate risk is to monitor the sensitivity of expected net interest income NII Structural foreign exchange exposures under varying interest rate scenarios i. e. simulation modelling, Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments where all other economic variables are held constant.
This in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the functional currencies monitoring is undertaken at an entity level by local ALCOs, where of which are currencies other than the US dollar.
An entitys entities forecast both one-year and five-year net interest income functional currency is normally that of the primary economic sensitivities across a range of interest rate scenarios.
environment in which the entity operates.
Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in effect of pro forma movements in projected yield curves based on Other comprehensive income.
We use the US dollar as our a static balance sheet size and structure.
The exception to this is presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements where the size of the balances or repricing is deemed interest rate because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major sensitive, for example, non-interest-bearing current account currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business.
Our migration and fixed-rate loan early prepayment.
These sensitivity consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange calculations do not incorporate actions that would be taken by differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar BSM or in the business units to mitigate the effect of interest rate functional currencies of underlying subsidiaries.
Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the The net interest income sensitivity calculations assume that primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our interest rates of all maturities move by the same amount in the consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual up-shock scenario.
Rates are not assumed to become negative in banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of the down-shock scenario unless the central bank rate is already changes in exchange rates.
We hedge structural foreign exchange negative.
In these cases, rates are not assumed to go further exposures only in limited circumstances.
negative, which may, in certain currencies, effectively result in For further details of our structural foreign exchange exposures, non-parallel shock.
In addition, the net interest income sensitivity please see page 139. calculations take account of the effect of anticipated differences in changes between interbank and internally determined interest Interest rate risk in the banking book rates, where the entity has discretion in terms of the timing and Overview extent of rate changes.
Interest rate risk in the banking book is the risk of an adverse Tables showing our calculations of net interest income sensitivity impact to earnings or capital due to changes in market interest can be found on page 139. rates.
It is generated by our non-traded assets and liabilities, Economic value of equity specifically loans, deposits and financial instruments that are not Economic value of equity EVE represents the present value of held for trading intent or that are held in order to hedge positions held with trading intent.
This risk is monitored and controlled by the future banking book cash flows that could be distributed to the ALCM function.
Interest rate risk in the banking book is equity providers under a managed run-off scenario.
This equates transferred to and managed by Balance Sheet Management to the current book value of equity plus the present value of future BSM, and also monitored by Wholesale Market Risk, Product net interest income in this scenario.
EVE can be used to assess the economic capital required to support interest rate risk in the Control and ALCM functions with reference to established risk appetites.
An EVE sensitivity is the extent to which HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk the EVE value will change due to a pre-specified movements in and the Global Operational Risk Committee, which meets at least interest rates, where all other economic variables are held quarterly to discuss key risk issues and review implementation of constant.
Operating entities are required to monitor EVE sensitivity the ORMF.
The sub-function is also responsible for preparation of as a percentage of capital resources.
operational risk reporting at Group level, including reports for consideration by the RMM and Group Risk Committee.
A formal HSBC Holdings governance structure provides oversight of the sub-functions As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has management.
Its activities predominantly involve Key risk management processes maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Groups diverse activities: allocating these capital resources across the Business managers throughout the Group are responsible Groupsbusinesses: earning dividend and interest income on its formaintaining an acceptable level of internal control investments in the businesses: payment of operating expenses: commensurate with the scale and nature of operations, and providing dividend payments toits equity shareholders and foridentifying and assessing risks, designing controls and interest payments to providers ofdebt capital: and maintaining a monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
The ORMF helps supply of short-term liquid assets for deployment under managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a standard risk extraordinary circumstances.
assessment methodology and providing a tool for the systematic reporting of operational loss data.
The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed arebanking book interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
A Group-wide risk management system is used to record the Exposure to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, results of the operational risk management process.
Operational funding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in longrisk and control self-assessments, along with issue and action term financial assets and financial liabilities including debt capital plans, are entered and maintained by business units.
The objective of HSBC Holdings market risk management functional management monitor the progress of documented strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks andminimise action plans to address shortcomings.
To help ensure that volatility in capital resources, cash flows and distributable operational risk losses are consistently reported and monitored at reserves.
Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by Holdings Group level, all Group companies are required to report individual ALCO in accordance with its risk appetite statement.
losses when the net loss is expected to exceed $10,000, and to aggregate all other operational risk losses under $10,000.
Losses HSBC Holdings uses interest rate swaps and cross-currency are entered into the Group-wide risk management system and interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk and foreign reported to governance on a monthly basis.
currency risk arising from its long-term debt issues.
Continuity of business operations Operational risk management Every department within the organisation undertakes business Details of our operational risk profile in 2018 can be found on page 142, in continuity management, which incorporates the development of a Operational risk exposures in 2018. plan including a business impact analysis assessing risk when Overview business disruption occurs.
The objective of our operational risk management is to manage The Group maintains a number of dedicated work area recovery and control operational risk in a cost-effective manner within sites globally.
Regular testing of these facilities is carried out with targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, representation from each business and support function, to ensure as defined by the GMB.
business continuity plans remain accurate, relevant and fit for purpose.
Where possible, the Group has ensured that its critical Key developments in 2018 business systems are not co-located with business system users, During 2018, we continued to strengthen our approach to thereby reducing concentration risk.
managing operational risk, as set out in the operational risk Regulatory compliance risk management management framework ORMF.
The approach sets out the governance, appetite and provides a single view of non-financial Overview risks that matter the most and associated controls.
It incorporates The Regulatory Compliance sub-function provides independent, a risk management system to help active risk management.
The objective oversight and challenge, and promotes  and embedding of the risk appetite framework for orientated culture that supports the business in delivering fair non-financial risk and the improvement of the consistency of the outcomes for customers, maintaining the integrity of financial adoption of the end-to-end risk and control assessment processes markets and achieving HSBCs strategic objectives.
While there remains more to do, we made progress in strengthening the control environment and Key developments in 2018 the management of non-financial risk.
There were no material changes to the policies and practices for Activity to strengthen the three lines of defence model continued the management of regulatory compliance risk in 2018, except for to be a key focus in 2018.
It sets our roles and responsibilities for the following: managing operational risk on a daily basis.
The Board oversight of conduct matters was transitioned to the Further information on the three lines of defence model can be found in the Group Risk Committee following the demise of the Conduct & Our risk management framework section on page 73.
Values Committee during the first half of 2018.
Governance and structure We implemented a number of initiatives to raise our standards The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes, and the in relation to the conduct of our business, as described below governance structure for the management of operational risk and under Conduct of business.
internal control in our geographical regions, global businesses and The reporting line of the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance global functions.
The ORMF has been codified in a high-level was changed from reporting to the Group Chief Risk Officer to standards manual, supplemented with detailed policies, which reporting to the Group Chief Compliance Officer from 1 describes our approach to identifying, assessing, monitoring and November.
controlling operational risk and gives guidance on mitigating Governance and structure action to be taken when weaknesses are identified.
We have a dedicated Global Operational Risk sub-function within Regulatory Compliance and Financial Crime Risk were integrated our Global Risk function.
It is responsible for establishing and into a new Compliance function from 1 November, which is maintaining the ORMF, monitoring the level of operational losses headed by the Group Chief Compliance Officer.
Regulatory and the internal control environment supported by their second Compliance continues to be structured as aglobal function with regional and country Regulatory Compliance teams, which line of defence functions.
It supports the Group Chief Risk Officer 84 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 support and advise each global business and global function.
Working in partnership with the public and private sector is vital to managing financial crime risk.
HSBC is a strong proponent of Key risk management processes public-private partnerships and information-sharing initiatives.
We regularly review our policies and procedures.
Global policies During 2018, we created new alliances in Hong Kong and and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation of Singapore and continued to develop existing partnerships, which any actual or potential regulatory breach to Regulatory include UK Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Task Force, US Compliance.
Reportable events are escalated to the RMM and the AML Consortium, and partnerships in Australia and Canada in Group Risk Committee, as appropriate.
Matters relating to the order to bring further benefit to the Group by enhancing the Groups regulatory conduct of business are reported to the Group understanding of financial crime risks.
Key risk management processes Conduct of business At a Group level, the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee In 2018, we continued to highlight conduct requirements as a continues to report to the Board on matters relating to financial global principle and elsewhere within the risk management crime.
Throughout 2018, the committee, which is attended by the framework, reflecting the individual responsibility and Group Chief Compliance Officer, received regular reports on accountability we have for the delivery of fair conduct outcomes actions being taken to address issues and vulnerabilities.
We for customers and market integrity.
Other key activities in 2018 established an anti-bribery and corruption transformation included: programme to further enhance the policies and controls around identifying and managing the risks of bribery and corruption the inclusion of an annual conduct objective in performance across our business.
We also introduced a transformation management scorecards for executive Directors, Group programme to strengthen the anti-fraud capabilities of the Group, Managing Directors, Group general managers and country and have deployed anti-tax-evasion controls.
We continue to CEOs across all regions, business lines, global functions and strengthen our governance and policy frameworks, and improve HSBC Operations Services and Technology.
Executive Directors our management information on standardised financial crime are also now subject to a new separate conduct-focused longcontrols.
We are investing in the next generation of capabilities to term incentive measure: fight financial crime by applying advanced analytics and artificial further development of digital products and supporting intelligence.
Our commitment to enhance our risk assessment processes to ensure our digital offerings deliver fair outcomes capabilities remains, aiming to deliver more proactive risk for customers.
Governance and controls continue to be management and improve the customer experience.
strengthened to ensure they remain fit for purpose as new Skilled Person Independent Consultant technology is introduced: Following expiration in December 2017 of the anti-money enhanced global policy requirements helping customers who laundering deferred prosecution agreement entered into with the are, or may become, vulnerable.
Business line-led initiatives in with the DoJ, the then Monitor has continued to work in his specific markets have addressed support for appointed capacity as a Skilled Person under Section 166 of the Financial representatives of vulnerable customers, customers in financial Services and Markets Act under the Direction issued by the UK distress, financial inclusion, and a pilot programme of training Financial Conduct Authority FCA in 2012.
He has also continued to help customers with or affected by cancer or dementia: and to work in his capacity as an Independent Consultant under the the delivery of our fourth annual global mandatory training 2012 Cease and Desist Order issued by the US Federal Reserve course on conduct for all employees.
This is complemented by Board FRB.
The Skilled Person and the Independent Consultant an ongoing programme of newsletter, intranet and livewill continue working for a period of time at the FCAs and FRBs streamed communications, internal surveys of staff sentiment discretion.
regarding progress in delivering good conduct, and conduct The Skilled Person has assessed HSBCs progress towards being awareness campaigns.
able to effectively manage its financial risk on a business-as-usual The Board maintains oversight of conduct matters through the basis.
The Skilled Person issued five country reports and two Group Risk Committee.
The Skilled Person has noted that HSBC Further details can be found under the Our conduct section of continues to make material progress towards its financial crime www.
For conduct-related risk target end state in terms of key systems, processes and costs relating to significant items, see page 66. people.
Nonetheless, the Skilled Person has identified some areas that require further work before HSBC reaches a business-as-usual Financial crime risk management state.
Overview The Independent Consultant completed his fifth annual HSBC continued to embed a sustainable financial crime risk assessment.
The Independent Consultant concluded that HSBC management capability across the Group.
We are making good continues to make significant strides toward establishing an progress with enhancing our financial crime control framework, effective sanctions compliance programme, commending HSBC with the three-year programme that began in 2017 to further on a largely successful affiliates remediation exercise.
He has, strengthen the management of anti-bribery and corruption risk.
however, determined that certain areas within HSBCs sanctions We continue to take further steps to refine and strengthen our compliance programme require further work.
The Independent defences against financial crime by applying advanced analytics Consultant has commenced his sixth annual assessment, which is and artificial intelligence.
Key developments in 2018 Throughout 2018, the FSVC received regular reports on HSBCs relationship with the Skilled Person and Independent Consultant.
During 2018, HSBC continued to increase its efforts to strengthen The FSVC received regular updates on the Skilled Persons and its ability to combat financial crime.
We integrated into our day-toIndependent Consultants reviews and has received the Skilled day operations the majority of the financial crime risk core Persons country and quarterly reports and the Independent capabilities delivered through the Global Standards programme, Consultants fifth annual assessment report.
which we set up in 2013 to enhance our risk management policies, processes and systems.
The programme infrastructure is expected to close in 2019.
We began several initiatives to define the next phase of financial crime risk management.
We invested in the use of artificial intelligence and advanced analytics techniques to develop an intelligence-led financial crime risk management framework for the future.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk For new products with investment guarantees, we consider the Insurance manufacturing operations risk cost when determining the level of premiums or the price management structure.
Details of changes in our insurance manufacturing operations risk profile in 2018 can be found on page 143, under Insurance manufacturing operations We periodically review products identified as higher risk, such risk profile.
as those that contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features linked to savings and investment products, There were no material changes to our policies and practices for for active management.
the management of risks arising in our insurance manufacturing operations in 2018.
We design new products to mitigate market risk, such as changing the investment return sharing portion between Governance policyholders and the shareholder.
Audited We exit, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose Insurance risks are managed to a defined risk appetite, which risk is considered unacceptable.
isaligned to the Groups risk appetite and risk management We reprice premiums charged to policyholders.
framework, including its three lines of defence model.
For details of the Groups governance framework, see page73.
The Global Credit risk Insurance Risk Management Meeting oversees the control Audited framework globally and is accountable to the RBWM Risk Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the Management Meeting on risk matters relating to the insurance credit risk, quality and performance of their investment portfolios.
Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and The monitoring of the risks within our insurance operations is counterparties is based primarily upon internationally recognised carried out by insurance risk teams.
Specific risk functions credit ratings and other publicly available information.
including Wholesale Credit and Market Risk, Operational Risk, Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our Information Security Risk, and Compliance support Insurance Risk insurance manufacturing subsidiaries and are aggregated and teams in their respective areas of expertise.
reported to the Group Insurance Credit Risk and Group Credit Risk Stress and scenario testing functions.
Stress testing is performed on investment credit Audited exposures using credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.
Stress testing forms a key part of the risk management framework for the insurance business.
We participate in local and Group-wide We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk.
regulatory stress tests, including the Bank of England stress test of These include a credit report containing a watch-list of the banking system, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority stress investments with current credit concerns, primarily investments test, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority that may be at risk of future impairment or where high stress test, and individual country insurance regulatory stress concentrations to counterparties are present in the investment tests.
Sensitivities to credit spread risk are assessed and monitored regularly.
These have highlighted that a key risk scenario for the insurance business is a prolonged low interest rate environment.
In order to Liquidity risk mitigate the impact of this scenario, the insurance operations have Audited taken a number of actions, including repricing some products to Risk is managed by cash flow matching and maintaining sufficient reflect lower interest rates, launching less capital intensive cash resources, investing in high credit-quality investments with products, investing in more capital efficient assets and developing deep and liquid markets, monitoring investment concentrations investment strategies to optimise the expected returns against the and restricting them where appropriate, and establishing cost of economic capital.
Management and mitigation of key risk types Insurance manufacturing subsidiaries complete quarterly liquidity Market risk risk reports and an annual review of the liquidity risks to which Audited they are exposed.
All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk Insurance risk mandates that specify the investment instruments in which they HSBC Insurance primarily uses the following techniques to are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market risk manage and mitigate insurance risk: that they may retain.
They manage market risk by using, among others, some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on a formalised product approval process covering product design, the nature of the contracts written: pricing and overall proposition management for example, management of lapses by introducing surrender charges : We are able to adjust bonus rates to manage the liabilities to policyholders for products with discretionary participating underwriting policy: features DPF.
The effect is that a significant portion of the claims management processes: and market risk is borne by the policyholder.
reinsurance which cedes risks above our acceptable thresholds We use asset and liability matching where asset portfolios are to an external reinsurer thereby limiting ourexposure.
structured to support projected liability cash flows.
The Group manages its assets using an approach that considers asset Reputational risk management quality, diversification, cash flow matching, liquidity, volatility Overview and target investment return.
It is not always possible to match Reputational risk is the risk of failing to meet stakeholder asset and liability durations, due to uncertainty over the receipt expectations as a result of any event, behaviour, action orinaction, of all future premiums, the timing of claims and because the either by HSBC, our employees or those with whom we are forecast payment dates of liabilities may exceed the duration of associated.
Any material lapse in standards of integrity, the longest dated investments available.
We use models to compliance, customer service or operating efficiency may assess the effect of a range of future scenarios on the values of represent a potential reputational risk.
Stakeholder expectations financial assets and associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ constantly evolve, and so reputational risk is dynamic and varies the outcomes in determining how best to structure asset between geographical regions, groups and individuals.
We have holdings to support liabilities.
an unwavering commitment to operate at the high standards we We use derivatives to protect against adverse market set for ourselves in every jurisdiction.
movements to better match liability cash flows.
86 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key developments in 2018 Governance and structure In the second half of 2018, as part of a revised enterprise risk The Global Risk function is mandated to manage sustainability risk management framework, it was agreed that reputational risk globally, working with the global businesses, global functions and would be considered as a single risk type that spans both financial local offices as appropriate.
Sustainability risk managers have and non-financial risk categories.
The oversight of reputational risk regional or national responsibilities for advising on and managing as a single risk type was transitioned to the Group Chief Risk environmental and social risks.
He is supported by the Group Reputational Risk Key risk management processes Committee and a new reputational risk framework, which will be The Global Risk functions responsibilities in relation to embedded during 2019.
The governance structure, however, sustainability risk include: remains unchanged.
This includes work Governance and structure inseveral key areas: overseeing our sustainability risk The development of policies and an effective control environment standards: overseeing our application of the Equator Principles, for the identification, assessment, management and mitigation of which provide a framework for banks to assess and manage reputational risk, are considered by the Group Reputational Risk the social and environmental impact of large projects to which Committee, which is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The they provide financing: overseeing our application of our focus of the Group Reputational Risk Committee is to consider sustainability policies, covering agricultural commodities, matters arising from clients or transactions that either present a chemicals, defence, energy, forestry, mining and metals, serious potential reputational risk to the Group or merit a GroupUNESCO World Heritage Sites and the Ramsar Convention on led decision to ensure a consistent risk management approach Wetlands: undertaking reviews of transactions where across the regions, global businesses and global functions.
The sustainability risks are assessed to be high: and supporting our committee is responsible for keeping the RMM apprised of areas operating companies to assess similar risks ofa lesser and activities presenting significant reputational risk and, where magnitude: appropriate, for making recommendations to the RMM to mitigate building and implementing systems-based processes to help such risk.
ensure consistent application of policies, and improving the efficiency of the sustainability risk review process.
We also aim Key risk management processes to capture management information to measure and report on Our Reputational Risk and Client Selection team oversees the the effect of our lending and investment activities on identification, management and control of significant reputational sustainable development: and risks across the Group.
It is responsible for setting policies to guide the Groups reputational risk management, devising providing training and capacity building within our operating companies to ensure sustainability risks are identified and strategies to protect against reputational risk, and advising the mitigated consistently to appropriate standards.
global businesses and global functions to help them identify, assess and mitigate such risks, where possible.
It is led by a Pension risk management central team supported by teams in each of the global businesses and regions.
Each global business has an established reputational There were no material changes to our policies and practices risk management governance process.
The global functions forthe management of pension risk in 2018. manage and escalate reputational risks within established Governance and structure operational risk frameworks.
A global pension risk framework and accompanying global Our policies set out our risk appetite and operational procedures policies on the management of risks related to defined benefit and for all areas of reputational risk, including financial crime defined contribution plans are in place.
Pension risk is managed by prevention, regulatory compliance, conduct-related concerns, a network of local and regional pension risk forums.
The Global environmental impacts, human rights matters and employee Pensions Oversight Forum is responsible for the governance and relations.
oversight of all pension plans sponsored by HSBC around the For further details of our financial crime risk management and world.
regulatory compliance risk management, see Financial crime risk Key risk management processes management on page 85 and Regulatory compliance risk Our global pensions strategy is to move from defined benefit management on page 84 respectively.
todefined contribution plans, where local law allows and it is Further details can be found under the Reputational risk section of considered competitive to do so.
In defined contribution pension plans, the contributions that HSBC Sustainability risk management is required to make are known, while the ultimate pension benefit Overview will vary, typically with investment returns achieved by investment choices made by the employee.
While the market risk to HSBC of Assessing the environmental and social impacts of providing defined contribution plans is low, theGroup is still exposed to finance to our customers is integral to our overall risk operational and reputational risk.
In defined benefit pension plans, the level of pension benefit is Key developments in 2018 known.
Therefore, the level of contributions required by HSBC will We periodically review our Sustainability Risk policies.
In 2018, we vary due to a number of risks, including: issued a revised energy policy to further support the transition to a investments delivering a return below that required to provide low-carbon economy in line with the global ambition of the 2015 the projected plan benefits: Paris Agreement of limiting climate change.
We seek to ensure that our customers continue to have access to the capital required the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate to develop their businesses, invest in more efficient technology failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values both and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, although there are equity and debt : certain specific long-term assets that HSBC may choose not to a change in either interest rates or inflation expectations, finance.
causing an increase in the value of plan liabilities: and plan members living longer than expected known as longevity risk.
Pension risk is assessed using an economic capital model thattakes into account potential variations in these factors.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Theimpact of these variations on both pension assets and pension Credit risk profile liabilities is assessed using a one-in-200-year stress test.
Scenario analysis and other stress tests are also used to support pension Page risk management.
Credit risk in 2018 89 Summary of credit risk 89 To fund the benefits associated with defined benefit plans, Credit exposure 93 sponsoring Group companies, and in some instances employees, Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates 94 make regular contributions in accordance with advice from Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying nominal amount and actuaries and in consultation with the plans trustees where allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including relevant.
These contributions are normally set toensure that there 99 loan commitments and financial guarantees are sufficient funds to meet the cost of theaccruing benefits for Credit quality 100 the future service of active members.
However, higher Wholesale lending 104 contributions are required when plan assets are considered Personal lending 114 insufficient to cover the existing pension liabilities.
Contribution Supplementary information 119 rates are typically revised annually oronce every three years, HSBC Holdings 121 depending on the plan.
Securitisation exposures and other structured products 121 The defined benefit plans invest contributions in a range of Selected 2017 credit risk disclosures 122 investments designed to limit the risk of assets failing to meet aplans liabilities.
Any changes in expected returns from the Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty investments may also change future contribution requirements.
In fails to meet an obligation under a contract.
Credit risk arises pursuit of these long-term objectives, an overall target allocation principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes is but also from other products such as guarantees and credit established.
In addition, each permitted asset class has its own derivatives.
benchmarks, such as stock-market or property valuation indices.
Comparative credit tables at 1 January 2018 reflecting the The benchmarks are reviewed at least once every three to five adoption of IFRS 9 as published in our Report on transition to IFRS years and more frequently if required by local legislation or 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 have been included circumstances.
The process generally involves anextensive asset where available.
Comparative credit tables at 31 December 2017 and liability review.
from our Annual Report and Accounts 2017, which do not reflect the adoption of IFRS 9, have been disclosed separately on pages 122 to 132 as they are not directly comparable.
Key developments and risk profile in 2018 Refer to Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2018 on page 224 and Note 37 Effect of reclassification upon Key developments in 2018 adoption of IFRS 9 for further details.
In 2018, HSBC undertook a number of initiatives to enhance itsapproach to the management of risk.
These included: There were no material changes to the policies and practices for the management of credit risk.
A summary of our current policies We continued to strengthen the controls that manage our and practices for the management of credit risk is set out in operational risks, as described on page 72 under Operational Credit risk management on page 79 of the Annual Report and risk profile.
The Board oversight of conduct matters and whistleblowing arrangements were transitioned from the Conduct & Values Committee following its demise in the first half of 2018.
The Group Risk Committee was given responsibility for the oversight of conduct matters and the Group Audit Committee has the overall responsibility for the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
For information on initiatives implemented in 2018 to raise our standards in relation to the conduct of our business, see page 84 under Conduct of business.
For further details on whistleblowing, see page 25.
We integrated into our day-to-day operations the majority of the financial crime risk core capabilities delivered through the Global Standards programme, and expect to complete the transition to business and function management in the first half of 2019.
We continue to take further steps to refine and strengthen our defences against financial crime by applying advanced analytics and artificial intelligence.
We adopted IFRS 9, including the accounting for expected credit losses, which introduced new concepts and measures such as significant increase in credit risk and lifetime expected credit losses.
Existing stress testing and regulatory models, skills and expertise were adapted in order to meet IFRS 9 requirements.
Data from various client, finance and risk systems were integrated and validated.
As a result of IFRS 9 adoption, management has additional insight and measures not previously utilised, which over time may influence our risk appetite and risk management processes.
88 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Credit risk in 2018 Summary of credit risk Gross loans and advances to customers of $990.3bn, as defined The following disclosure presents the gross carrying nominal by IFRS 9, increased from $959.1bn at 1 January 2018.
This amount of financial instruments to which the impairment increase includes adverse foreign exchange movements of requirements in IFRS 9 are applied and the associated allowance $34.1bn.
Loans and advances to banks of $72.2bn decreased from for ECL.
Due to the forward-looking nature of IFRS 9, the scope of $82.6bn at 1 January 2018.
This included adverse foreign financial instruments on which ECL is recognised is greater than exchange movements of $2.7bn.
Wholesale and personal lending the scope of IAS 39. movements are disclosed on pages 104 to 118.
The following tables analyse loans by industry sector and the The change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment extent to which they are exposed to credit risks.
charges, as it appears in the income statement, for the period was The allowance for ECL, as defined by IFRS 9, decreased from $1.8bn.
This Income statement movements are analysed further on page 42. decrease included favourable foreign exchange movements of $0.4bn.
Our maximum exposure to credit risk is presented on page 93 and credit quality on pages 100.
While credit risk arises across most of The allowance for ECL at 31 December 2018 comprised of $8.7bn our balance sheet, losses have typically been incurred on loans in respect of assets held at amortised cost, $0.4bn in respect of and advances and securitisation exposures and other structured loan commitments and financial guarantees, and $0.1bn in respect products.
As a result, our disclosures focus primarily on these two of debt instruments measured at fair value through other areas.
Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied Audited 31 Dec 2018 At 1 Jan 2018 Gross carrying Allowance for Gross carrying 5 5 nominal amount ECL nominal amount Allowance for ECL Footnotes $m $m $m $m Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost 990,321 8,625 959,080 9,343 personal 394,337 2,947 375,069 3,047 corporate and commercial 534,577 5,552 520,137 6,053 non-bank financial institutions 61,407 126 63,874 243 Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost 72,180 13 82,582 23 Other financial assets measured at amortised cost 582,917 55 557,864 114 cash and balances at central banks 162,845 2 180,624 3 items in the course of collection from other banks 5,787 6,628 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 35,859 34,186 reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 242,804 201,553 financial investments 62,684 18 59,539 16 6 prepayments, accrued income and other assets 72,938 35 75,334 95 Total gross carrying amount on-balance sheet 1,645,418 8,693 1,599,526 9,480 Loans and other credit-related commitments 592,008 325 545,258 376 personal 207,351 13 196,093 14 corporate and commercial 271,022 305 262,391 355 7 non-bank financial institutions 113,635 7 86,774 7 8 Financial guarantees 23,518 93 25,849 97 personal 927 1 718 4 corporate and commercial 17,355 85 19,965 89 non-bank financial institutions 5,236 7 5,166 4 9 Total nominal amount off-balance sheet 615,526 418 571,107 473 2,260,944 9,111 2,170,633 9,953 Memorandum Memorandum allowance for allowance for 10 10 Fair value ECL Fair value ECL $m $m $m $m Debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI 343,110 84 322,163 184 For footnotes, see page 147.
The following table provides an overview of the Groups credit risk stage 3: objective evidence of impairment, and are therefore by stage and industry, and the associated ECL coverage.
The considered to be in default or otherwise credit impaired on financial assets recorded in each stage have the following which a lifetime ECL is recognised: and characteristics: purchased or originated credit impaired POCI : purchased or stage 1: unimpaired and without significant increase in credit originated at a deep discount that reflects the incurred credit risk on which a 12-month allowance for ECL is recognised: losses on which a lifetime ECL is recognised.
Unless identified at an earlier stage, all financial assets are stage 2 when they are less than 30 days past due 1-29 DPD from deemed to have suffered a significant increase in credit risk when those that are more than 30 DPD 30 and DPD.
Past due they are 30 days past due DPD and are transferred from stage 1 financial instruments are those loans where customers have failed to stage 2.
The following disclosure presents the ageing of stage 2 to make payments in accordance with the contractual terms of financial assets.
It distinguishes those assets that are classified as their facilities.
Stage 2 days past due analysis at 31 December 2018 Audited Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL ECL coverage % Of which: Of which: Of which: Of which: Of which: Of which: 1 to 29 30 and 1 to 29 30 and 1 to 29 30 and 12 12 12 12 12 12 Stage 2 DPD DPD Stage 2 DPD DPD Stage 2 DPD DPD $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % Loans and advances to 61,786 2,554 1,914 2,108 204 254 3.4 8.0 13.3 customers at amortised cost personal 15,075 1,807 1,383 1,265 165 220 8.4 9.1 15.9 corporate and commercial 44,779 737 485 812 39 34 1.8 5.3 7.0 non-bank financial institutions 1,932 10 46 31 1.6 Loans and advances to banks at 307 2 0.7 amortised cost Other financial assets measured 1,673 10 26 6 0.4 at amortised cost For footnotes, see page 147.
Stage 2 days past due analysis at 1 January 2018 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL ECL coverage % Stage 2 Of which: Of which: Stage 2 Of which: Of which: Stage 2 Of which: Of which: 1 to 29 30 and 1 to 29 30 and 1 to 29 30 and 12 12 12 12 12 12 DPD DPD DPD DPD DPD DPD $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % Loans and advances to customers 72,658 2,393 2,447 2,201 261 261 3.0 10.9 10.7 at amortised cost personal 16,354 1,683 1,428 1,156 218 230 7.1 13.0 16.1 corporate and commercial 53,262 684 977 1,037 42 31 1.9 6.1 3.2 non-bank financial institutions 3,042 26 42 8 1 0.3 3.8 Loans and advances to banks at 1,540 7 66 4 2 0.3 28.6 amortised cost Other financial assets measured at 1,517 133 46 4 1 0.3 2.2 amortised cost For footnotes, see page 147.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Personal gross loans to customers over five years $bn Loan impairment charges by geographical region in 2017 $bn IAS 39 IFRS 9 Stage 1 and 2 Unimpaired Stage 3 and POCI Impaired loans Loans and advances change in ECL by geographical region in 2018 $bn Wholesale gross loans to customers and banks over five years $bn IAS 39 IFRS 9 Loans and advances to customers change in ECL in 2018 $bn Stage 1 and 2 Unimpaired Stage 3 and POCI Impaired loans Loans and advances change in ECL loan impairment charge $bn IAS 39 IFRS 9 Personal Wholesale 92 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Credit exposure Loans and advances to customers loan impairment charges by industry in 2017 $bn Maximum exposure to credit risk Audited This section provides information on balance sheet items and their offsets as well as loan and other credit-related commitments.
Commentary on consolidated balance sheet movements in 2018 isprovided on page45.
The offset on derivatives remains in line with the movements inmaximum exposure amounts.
Maximum exposure to credit risk table The following table presents our maximum exposure before taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements unless such enhancements meet accounting offsetting requirements.
The table excludes financial instruments whose carrying amount best represents the net exposure to credit risk, and it excludes equity securities as they are not subject to credit risk.
For the financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount: for financial guarantees and other guarantees granted, it is the maximum amount that we would have topay if the guarantees were called upon.
For loan commitments and other credit-related commitments, it is generally Personal allowance for ECL loan impairment allowance over five thefull amount of the committed facilities.
years $bn The offset in the table relates to amounts where there is a legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk purposes.
However, as IAS 39 IFRS 9 there is no intention to settle these balances on a net basis under normal circumstances, they do notqualify for net presentation for accounting purposes.
No offset has been applied to off-balance sheet collateral.
In the case of derivatives, the offset column also includes collateral received in cash and other financial assets.
Other credit risk mitigants While not disclosed as an offset in the following Maximum exposure to credit risk table, other arrangements are in place that reduce our maximum exposure to credit risk.
These include a charge over collateral on borrowers specific assets, such as residential properties, collateral held in the form of financial instruments that are not held on the balance sheet and short positions in securities.
In addition, for financial assets heldas part of linked insurance investment contracts the risk ispredominantly borne by the policyholder.
See Note 30 and page 230 on the Financial Statements for further details of collateral in respect of certain loans and advances andderivatives.
Collateral available to mitigate credit risk is disclosed in the Allowance for ECL loan impairment allowance $bn Collateral section on page 109.
Wholesale allowance for ECL loan impairment allowance over five years $bn IAS 39 IFRS 9 Allowance for ECL loan impairment allowance $bn HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Maximum exposure to credit risk Audited 2018 Maximum exposure Offset Net $m $m $m Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 981,696 29,534 952,162 personal 391,390 3,679 387,711 corporate and commercial 529,025 23,421 505,604 non-bank financial institutions 61,281 2,434 58,847 Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost 72,167 72,167 Other financial assets held at amortised cost 585,600 21,788 563,812 cash and balances at central banks 162,843 162,843 items in the course of collection from other banks 5,787 5,787 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 35,859 35,859 reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 242,804 21,788 221,016 financial investments 62,666 62,666 prepayments, accrued income and other assets 75,641 75,641 Derivatives 207,825 194,306 13,519 Total on-balance sheet exposure to credit risk 1,847,288 245,628 1,601,660 Total off-balance sheet 874,751 874,751 financial and other guarantees 94,810 94,810 loan and other credit-related commitments 779,941 779,941 At 31 Dec 2018 2,722,039 245,628 2,476,411 Concentration of exposure Methodology The geographical diversification of our lending portfolio, and HSBC has adopted the use of three scenarios, representative of ourbroad range of global businesses and products, ensured that our view of forecast economic conditions, sufficient to calculate we did not overly depend on a few markets or businesses unbiased expected loss in most economic environments.
They togenerate growth in 2018. represent a most likely outcome the Central scenario, and two, less likely outer scenarios, referred to as the Upside and For an analysis of: Downside scenarios.
Each outer scenario is consistent with a financial investments, see Note 16 on the Financial Statements: probability of 10%, while the Central scenario is assigned the remaining 80%, according to the decision of HSBCs senior trading assets, see Note 11 on the Financial Statements: management.
This weighting scheme is deemed appropriate for derivatives, see page 113 and Note 15 on the Financial the unbiased estimation of ECL in most circumstances.
Key Statements: and scenario assumptions are set using the average of forecasts of loans and advances by industry sector and by the location external economists, helping to ensure that the IFRS 9 scenarios are unbiased and maximise the use of independent information.
ofthe principal operations of the lending subsidiary or, in the The Central, Upside and Downside scenarios selected with case of the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking reference to external forecast distributions using the above Corporation, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited approach are termed the consensus economic scenarios.
and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending branch, see page 104 for wholesale lending and page 114 for personal For the Central scenario, HSBC sets key assumptions such as GDP lending.
growth, inflation, unemployment and policy interest rates, using either the average of external forecasts commonly referred to as Credit deterioration of financial instruments consensus forecasts for most economies, or market prices.
An Audited external providers global macro model, conditioned to follow the A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the identification, consensus forecasts, projects the other paths required as inputs to treatment and measurement of stage 1, stage 2, stage 3 credit impaired and credit models.
This external provider is subject to HSBCs risk POCI financial instruments can be found in Note 1.2 on the Financial governance framework, with oversight by a specialist internal unit.
The Upside and Downside scenarios are designed to be cyclical, in that GDP growth, inflation and unemployment usually revert back Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity to the Central scenario after the first three years for major analysis of ECL estimates economies.
We determine the maximum divergence of GDP growth from the Central scenario using the 10th and the 90th Audited percentile of the entire distribution of forecast outcomes for major Expected credit loss impairment allowances recognised in the economies.
While key economic variables are set with reference to financial statements reflect the effect of a range of possible external distributional forecasts, we also align the overall narrative economic outcomes, calculated on a probability-weighted basis, of the scenarios to the macroeconomic risks described in HSBCs based on the economic scenarios described below.
The Top and emerging risks on page69.
This ensures that scenarios recognition and measurement of expected credit losses ECL remain consistent with the more qualitative assessment of these involves the use of significant judgement and estimation.
We project additional variable paths using the external necessary to formulate multiple forward-looking economic providers global macro model.
forecasts and incorporate them into the ECL estimates.
HSBC uses We apply the following to generate the three economic scenarios: a standard framework to form economic scenarios to reflect assumptions about future economic conditions, supplemented Economic risk assessment: We develop a shortlist of the upside with the use of management judgement, which may result in and downside economic and political risks, most relevant to using alternative or additional economic scenarios and or HSBC and the IFRS 9 measurement objective.
local and global economic and political risks, which together affect economies that have a material effect on credit risk for HSBC, namely the UK, countries in the eurozone, Hong Kong, 94 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 mainland China and the US.
We compile this shortlist by uncertainties facing the UK economy at that time, resulting in the monitoring developments in the global economy, by reference recognition of additional ECL through a management adjustment to our top and emerging risks, and by consulting external and for economic uncertainty termed a management overlay in the internal subject matter experts.
During 2018, we maintained additional ECL impairment allowances for the UK and made a further Scenario generation: For the Central scenario, we obtain a preadjustment in respect of trade and tariff-related tensions.
See defined set of economic paths from the average taken from the Impact of UK economic uncertainty on ECL below.
consensus survey of professional forecasters.
Paths for the two outer scenarios are benchmarked to the Central scenario and Description of consensus economic scenarios reflect the economic risk assessment.
We select scenarios that The economic assumptions presented in this section have been in managements judgement are representative of the formed internally by HSBC specifically for the purpose of probability weighting scheme, informed by the current calculating expected credit loss.
economic outlook, data analysis of past recessions, and The consensus Central scenario transitions in and out of recession.
The key assumptions made, and the accompanying paths, represent our best estimate of a Consensus forecasts were stable over the course of 2018 and scenario at a specified probability.
Suitable narratives are HSBCs Central scenario is one of moderate growth over the developed for the Central scenario and the paths of the two projection period 20192023.
Global GDP growth is expected to be outer scenarios.
2.9% on average over the period, which is marginally higher than the average growth rate over the period 20132017.
Across the Variable enrichment: We expand each scenario through key markets, we note: enrichment of variables.
This includes the production of more than 400 variables that are required to calculate ECL.
The Expected average rates of GDP growth over the 20192023 external provider expands these scenarios by using as inputs period are lower than average growth rates achieved over the the agreed scenario narratives and the variables aligned to 20132017 period for the US, UK, mainland China, Hong Kong, these narratives.
Scenarios, once expanded, continue to be Canada, Mexico and the UAE.
For the UK, this reflects benchmarked to latest events and information.
Late breaking expectations that the long-term impact of current economic events could lead to revision of scenarios to reflect uncertainty will be moderately adverse, while for China, it is management judgement.
consistent with the theme of ongoing rebalancing from an export-oriented economy to deeper domestic consumption.
The Upside and Downside scenarios are generated at the year-end and are only updated during the year if economic conditions The average unemployment rate over the projection horizon is change significantly.
The Central scenario is generated every expected to remain at or below the averages observed in the quarter.
In quarters where only the Central scenario is updated, 20132017 period across all of our major markets.
outer scenarios for use in wholesale are adjusted such that the Inflation is expected to be stable despite steady GDP growth relationship between the Central scenario and outer scenarios in and strong labour markets and will remain close to central bank the quarter is consistent with that observed at the last full scenario targets in our core markets over the forecast period.
In retail, three scenarios are run annually to establish the effect of multiple scenarios for each portfolio.
This effect is Major central banks are expected to gradually raise their main then applied in each quarter with the understanding that the nonpolicy interest rate.
The US Federal Reserve Board FRB will linearity of response to economic conditions should not change, continue to reduce the size of its balance sheet and the unless a significant change in economic conditions occurs.
European Central Bank is expected to raise interest rates from the second half of 2019.
The Chinese Central Bank is expected HSBC recognises that the consensus economic scenario to continue to rely on its toolkit of measures to control capital approach, using three scenarios, will be insufficient in certain flows and manage domestic credit growth.
Additional analysis may be requested at managements discretion.
This may result in a change in the The West Texas Intermediate oil price is forecast to average $63 weighting scheme assigned to the three scenarios or the inclusion per barrel over the projection period.
We anticipate that there will be only limited The following table describes key macroeconomic variables and instances when the standard approach will not apply.
We invoked the probabilities assigned in the consensus Central scenario.
The consensus Upside scenario confidence, fide-escalation of trade tensions and removal of trade barriers, expansionary fiscal policy, positive resolution of economic The economic forecast distribution of risks as captured by uncertainty in the UK, stronger oil prices as well as calming of consensus probability distributions of GDP growth has shown a geopolitical tensions are the risk themes that support the 2018 marginal increase in upside risks for the US and the eurozone, but year-end Upside scenario.
a decrease of the same for the UK over the course of 2018.
Globally, real GDP growth rises in the first two years of the Upside The following table describes key macroeconomic variables and scenario before converging to the Central scenario.
Increased the probabilities assigned in the consensus Upside scenario.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Upside scenario average 20192023 Hong Mainland UK France Kong China UAE US Canada Mexico GDP growth rate % 2.2 1.9 2.9 6.1 3.9 2.7 2.1 2.9 Inflation % 2.3 2.0 2.6 2.7 2.9 2.4 2.2 4.0 Unemployment % 4.2 7.4 2.9 3.7 1.7 3.6 5.9 3.3 Short-term interest rate % 1.3 0.2 2.6 4.1 3.3 3.0 2.5 8.2 10-year Treasury bond yields % 2.7 2.0 3.3 N A N A 3.7 3.3 7.5 House price growth % 4.1 2.3 1.4 7.3 4.4 4.7 3.9 5.8 Equity price growth % 6.0 7.3 7.1 13.6 N A 8.7 9.2 10.9 Probability % 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 Note: N A not required in credit models.
The global slowdown in demand drives commodity prices lower and results in an accompanying fall in inflation.
Central The consensus Downside scenario banks remain accommodative.
This is consistent with the key risk The distribution of risks as captured by consensus probability themes of the downside, such as an intensification of global distributions of GDP growth have shown a marginal increase in protectionism and trade barriers, faster than expected tightening downside risks over the course of 2018 for the US, while they of the Fed policy rate, a worsening of economic uncertainty in the were broadly stable for the eurozone and the UK but see UK, China choosing to rebalance with stringent measures, and discussion on UK economic uncertainty below.
Globally, real GDP weaker commodity prices.
growth declines for two years in the Downside scenario before The following table describes key macroeconomic variables and recovering to the Central scenario.
House price growth either stalls the probabilities assigned in the consensus Downside scenario.
Alternative Downside scenarios for the UK The table below describes key macroeconomic variables and the A number of events occurred over the course of 2018 that led probabilities for each of the Alternative Downside scenarios: management to re-evaluate the shape of the consensus distribution for the UK.
Given the challenges facing economic Average 20192023 forecasters in this environment, management was concerned that Alternative Alternative Alternative this distribution did not adequately represent downside risks for Downside Downside Downside scenario 1 scenario 2 scenario 3 the UK.
The high level of economic uncertainty that prevailed at the end of 2018, including the lack of progress in agreeing a clear % % % plan for an exit from the EU and the uncertain performance of the GDP growth rate 0.5 0.1 0.7 UK economy after an exit, was a key factor in this consideration.
In Inflation 2.2 2.4 2.7 managements view, the extent of this uncertainty justifies the use Unemployment 6.5 8.0 7.7 of the following Alternative Downside scenarios, used in place of Short-term interest rate 0.4 2.5 2.5 the consensus Downside, with the assigned probabilities: 10-year Treasury bond yields 1.8 4.0 4.0 House price growth 1.5 3.3 4.8 Alternative Downside scenario 1 AD1 : Economic uncertainty could have a large impact on the UK economy resulting in a long Equity price growth 0.9 2.3 7.5 lasting recession with a weak recovery.
This scenario reflects the Probability 30 5 5 consequences of such a recession with an initial risk-premium Global trade Downside scenario shock and weaker long-run productivity growth.
This scenario has been used with a 30% weighting.
Continued escalation of tradeand tariff-related tensions throughout 2018 resulted in management modelling an additional Alternative Downside scenario 2 AD2 : This scenario reflects the Downside scenario for key Asia-Pacific economies.
This additional possibility that economic uncertainty could result in a deep scenario models the effects of a significant escalation in global cyclical shock triggering a steep depreciation in sterling, a sharp tensions, stemming from trade disputes but going beyond increase in inflation and an associated monetary policy response.
increases in tariffs to affect non-tariff barriers, cross-border This represents a tail risk and has been assigned a 5% weighting.
investment flows and threats to the international trade Alternative Downside scenario 3 AD3 : This scenario reflects the architecture.
This scenario assumes actions that lie beyond possibility that the adverse impact associated with economic currently enacted and proposed tariffs and has been modelled as uncertainty currently in the UK could manifest over a far longer an addition to the three consensus-driven scenarios for these period of time with the worst effects occurring later than in the economies.
This scenario has been assigned a 5% weight, leaving above two scenarios.
This scenario is also considered a tail risk 5% assigned to the consensus Downside scenario, and has been and has been assigned a 5% weighting.
used in addition to the consensus economic scenarios for eight Asia-Pacific markets, including HSBCs major markets of Hong Kong and mainland China.
In managements judgement, the 96 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 impact on the US and other countries is largely captured by the Hong Kong consensus Downside scenario.
Key macroeconomic variables are shown in the table below: Average 20192023 Mainland Hong Kong China GDP growth rate % 1.5 5.4 Inflation % 1.6 2.1 Unemployment % 4.7 4.3 Short-term interest rate % 1.0 3.1 10-year Treasury bond yields % 2.0 N A House price growth % 2.0 2.9 Equity price growth % 3.5 1.1 Probability % 5 5 The conditions that resulted in departure from the consensus economic forecasts will be reviewed regularly as economic Mainland China conditions change in future to determine whether these adjustments continue to be necessary.
The tables above show the five-year average of GDP growth rate.
The following graphs show the historical and forecasted GDP growth rate for the various economic scenarios in HSBCs four largest markets.
US How economic scenarios are reflected in the wholesale calculation of ECL HSBC has developed a globally consistent methodology for the application of forward economic guidance into the calculation of ECL by incorporating forward economic guidance into the estimation of the term structure of probability of default PD and loss given default LGD.
For PDs, we consider the correlation of forward economic guidance to default rates for a particular industry in a country.
For LGD calculations we consider the UK correlation of forward economic guidance to collateral values and realisation rates for a particular country and industry.
PDs and LGDs are estimated for the entire term structure of each instrument.
For impaired loans, LGD estimates take into account independent recovery valuations provided by external consultants where available, or internal forecasts corresponding to anticipated economic conditions and individual company conditions.
In estimating the ECL on impaired loans that are individually considered not to be significant, HSBC incorporates forward economic guidance proportionate to the probability-weighted outcome and the Central scenario outcome for non-stage 3 populations.
How economic scenarios are reflected in the retail calculation of ECL HSBC has developed and implemented a globally consistent methodology for incorporating forecasts of economic conditions into ECL estimates.
The impact of economic scenarios on PD is modelled at a portfolio level.
Historical relationships between observed default rates and macroeconomic variables are integrated into IFRS 9 ECL estimates by leveraging economic response models.
The impact of these scenarios on PD is modelled over a period equal to the remaining maturity of underlying asset or assets.
The impact on LGD is modelled for mortgage portfolios by forecasting future loan-to-value LTV profiles for the remaining maturity of the asset by leveraging national level forecasts of the house price index and applying the corresponding LGD expectation.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Impact of UK economic uncertainty on ECL 100% weighting to each scenario in turn.
The weighting is reflected in both the determination of significant increase in credit On initial adoption of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018, additional ECL risk as well as the measurement of the resulting ECL.
For impairment allowances of $245m were recognised compared with wholesale credit risk exposures, the sensitivity analysis excludes those implied by consensus forecasts, due to the specific ECL and financial instruments related to defaulted obligors uncertainties facing the UK economy at that time.
This adjustment because the measurement of ECL is relatively more sensitive to was described as a management overlay for economic credit factors specific to the obligor than future economic uncertainty in the transitional disclosures.
forecasts for the UK remained broadly stable during 2018, management remained concerned that the consensus distribution The economic scenarios are generated to capture HSBCs view of a range of possible forecast economic conditions that is sufficient did not adequately reflect downside risks, particularly towards the end of 2018 as the level of risk increased.
At 31 December 2018, for the calculation of unbiased and probability-weighted ECL.
management determined that its view of the distribution of Therefore, the ECL calculated for each of the scenarios represent a range of possible outcomes that have been evaluated to estimate possible economic outcomes in the UK was better reflected by using three additional Downside scenarios in place of the UK ECL.
As a result, the ECL calculated for the Upside and Downside scenarios should not be taken to represent the upper and lower consensus Downside scenarios.
This resulted in the recognition of additional impairment allowances of $410m compared with those limits of possible actual ECL outcomes.
There is a high degree of implied by consensus forecasts, an increase of $165m in the estimation uncertainty in numbers representing tail risk scenarios when assigned a 100% weighting, and an indicative range is adjustment to the consensus position compared with 1 January 2018, to reflect the increased level of economic provided for the UK tail risk sensitivity analysis.
A wider range of possible ECL outcomes reflects uncertainty about the distribution uncertainty in the UK.
of economic conditions and does not necessarily mean that credit We also considered developments after the balance sheet date risk on the associated loans is higher than for loans where the and concluded that they did not necessitate any adjustment to the distribution of possible future economic conditions is narrower.
approach or judgements taken on 31 December 2018.
The recalculated ECL for each of the scenarios should be read in Economic scenarios sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates the context of the sensitivity analysis as a whole and in conjunction with the narrative disclosures provided below.
The ECL outcome is sensitive to judgement and estimations made with regards to the formulation and incorporation of multiple ECL under each scenario is given in dollar terms and as a forward-looking economic conditions described above.
As a result, percentage of the the gross carrying amount and, for wholesale management assessed and considered the sensitivity of the ECL lending, the nominal amount for related-loan commitments and outcome against the forward-looking economic conditions as part financial guarantees.
of the ECL governance process by recalculating the ECL under each scenario described above for selected portfolios, applying a Wholesale analysis 13 IFRS 9 ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions Mainland UK US Hong Kong China Canada Mexico UAE France ECL coverage of financial instruments subject to significant measurement uncertainty at 14 31 December 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Reported ECL 906 163 162 83 81 76 74 46 15 Gross carrying value nominal amount 360,637 211,318 407,402 99,379 72,759 31,798 37,546 105,416 % % % % % % % % Reported ECL coverage 0.25 0.08 0.04 0.08 0.11 0.24 0.20 0.04 Coverage ratios by scenario Consensus Central scenario 0.18 0.08 0.04 0.08 0.11 0.24 0.20 0.04 Consensus Upside scenario 0.17 0.07 0.04 0.08 0.10 0.19 0.18 0.04 Consensus Downside scenario 0.21 0.09 0.04 0.09 0.12 0.30 0.21 0.06 Coverage ratios for alternative scenarios UK AD 1 0.28 Tail risk scenarios UK AD 23 0.46 0.52 Trade Downside scenario 0.13 0.15 ECL amounts for alternative scenarios $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m UK AD 1 1,000 Tail risk scenarios UK AD 23 1,700 1,900 Trade Downside scenario 500 150 For footnotes see page 147.
ECL coverage rates reflect the underlying observed credit defaults, four to 42 basis points for loans and advances to customers the sensitivity to economic environment, extent of security and the including loan commitments and financial guarantees.
The effective maturity of the book.
In certain economies such as the additional scenarios represent the elasticity between UK, the book is longer-dated relative to other economies such as macroeconomic factors such as GDP and the risk of default.
Kong is typically a short-dated book with low defaults, which is reflected in the low ECL coverage ratio.
The additional scenarios for UK economic uncertainty could, if they occurred, increase ECL by three to 27 basis points compared with reported ECL for all wholesale financial instruments, and 98 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Retail analysis The geographies below were selected based on a 76% contribution to overall ECL within our retail lending business.
The most significant level of retail ECL sensitivity is in the UK and Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying nominal reflects managements view on the level of economic uncertainty.
amount and allowances for loans and advances to Other key markets show similar relative levels of sensitivity banks and customers including loan commitments and regardless of differences in underlying levels of credit quality.
financial guarantees Under certain economic conditions, economic factors can The following disclosure provides a reconciliation by stage of the influence ECL in counter-intuitive ways for example an increase in Groups gross carrying nominal amount and allowances for loans GDP growth accompanied by rising interest rates resulting in an and advances to banks and customers, including loan increase in PDs and it may be necessary to apply management commitments and financial guarantees.
judgement to the output, which following management review of the calculated ECL sensitivities, may require modelled output The transfers of financial instruments represents the impact of adjustments.
stage transfers upon the gross carrying nominal amount and associated allowance for ECL.
The net remeasurement of ECL An example of this is in France, where the ECL sensitivity results arising from stage transfers represents the increase or decrease have been adjusted to more accurately reflect managements due to these transfers, for example, moving from a 12-month views of ECL sensitivity under an upside and downside scenario stage 1 to a lifetime stage 2 ECL measurement basis.
Net by inverting the Upside and Downside ECL sensitivity.
remeasurement excludes the underlying CRR PD movements of For all the above sensitivity analyses, as the level of uncertainty, the financial instruments transferring stage.
This is captured, along economic forecasts, historical economic variable correlations or with other credit quality movements in the changes in risk credit quality changes, corresponding changes in the ECL parameters credit quality line item.
The Net new and further lending repayments represent the gross carrying nominal amount and associated allowance ECL impact from volume movements within the Groups lending portfolio.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including 8 loan commitments and financial guarantees Audited Non-credit impaired Credit impaired Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Gross Gross Gross Gross Gross carrying Allowcarrying Allowcarrying Allowcarrying Allowcarrying Allownominal ance for nominal ance for nominal ance for nominal ance for nominal ance for amount ECL amount ECL amount ECL amount ECL amount ECL $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2018 1,446,857 1,469 102,032 2,406 15,083 5,722 1,042 242 1,565,014 9,839 Transfers of financial instruments: 8,747 685 3,582 1,185 5,165 500 transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 84,181 319 84,181 319 transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 77,325 999 77,325 999 transfers to stage 3 2,250 35 4,439 607 6,689 642 transfers from stage 3 359 40 1,165 102 1,524 142 Net remeasurement of ECL arising from 620 605 103 88 transfer of stage Net new and further lending repayments 126,868 512 16,162 564 2,902 733 587 42 107,217 827 Changes in risk parameters credit quality 423 1,087 2,238 51 2,953 Changes to model used for ECL calculation Assets written off 2,568 2,552 1 1 2,569 2,553 Foreign exchange 52,983 76 2,863 99 636 232 26 6 56,508 413 Others 156 98 348 28 90 89 94 50 508 31 At 31 Dec 2018 1,511,839 1,449 86,241 2,278 14,232 5,135 334 194 1,612,646 9,056 ECL release charge for the period 531 1,128 1,608 9 2,214 Recoveries 408 Others 87 Total change in ECL for the period 1,893 For footnotes, see page 147.
12 months ended At 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 Gross carrying nominal Allowance for ECL ECL charge amount $m $m $m As above 1,612,646 9,056 1,893 Other financial assets measured at amortised cost 582,917 55 21 Non-trading reverse purchase agreement commitments 65,381 Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in 2,260,944 9,111 1,872 IFRS 9 are applied Summary consolidated income statement Debt instruments measured at FVOCI 343,110 84 105 Total allowance for ECL total income statement ECL charge for the period n a 9,195 1,767 As shown in the above table, the allowance for ECL for loans and Credit quality advances to customers and banks and relevant loan commitments Credit quality of financial instruments and financial guarantees decreased $783m during the period from Audited $9,839m at 1 January 2018 to $9,056m at 31 December 2018.
We assess the credit quality of all financial instruments that are This decrease was primarily driven by: subject to credit risk.
The credit quality of financial instruments is $827m relating to underlying net book volume movements, a point-in-time assessment of the probability of default of financial which included the ECL allowance associated with new instruments, whereas IFRS 9 stages 1 and 2 are determined based originations, assets derecognised and net further lending: on relative deterioration of credit quality since initial recognition.
$2,553m of assets written off: and Accordingly, for non-credit-impaired financial instruments, there is no direct relationship between the credit quality assessment and foreign exchange and other movements of $444m.
IFRS 9 stages 1 and 2, though typically the lower credit quality These decreases were partially offset by increases of: bands exhibit a higher proportion in stage 2.
$2,953m relating to underlying credit quality changes, The five credit quality classifications each encompass a range of granular internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and including the credit quality impact of financial instruments transferring between stages: and personal lending businesses and the external ratings attributed by external agencies to debt securities, as shown in the table on $88m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage page80.
Under IAS 39, personal lending credit quality was transfers.
disclosed based on expected-loss percentages.
Under IFRS 9, The ECL charge for the period of $2,214m presented in the above personal lending credit quality is now disclosed based on a 12- table comprises $2,953m relating to underlying credit quality month point-in-time PD adjusted for multiple economic scenarios.
changes, including the credit quality impact of financial The credit quality classifications for wholesale lending are instruments transferring between stage, $88m relating to the net unchanged and are based on internal credit risk ratings.
remeasurement impact of stage transfers, partly offset by $827m relating to underlying net book volume movements.
Summary views of the movement in wholesale and personal lending are presented on pages 106 and 116.
Credit-impaired loans where regulatory rules permit default to be defined based on 180 days past due.
Therefore, the definitions of credit impaired and Audited default are aligned as far as possible so that stage 3 represents all HSBC determines that a financial instrument is credit impaired and loans that are considered defaulted or otherwise credit impaired.
in stage 3 by considering relevant objective evidence, primarily Renegotiated loans and forbearance whether: The following table shows the gross carrying amounts of the contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due Groups holdings of renegotiated loans and advances to for more than 90 days: customers by industry sector and by stages.
Wholesale there are other indications that the borrower is unlikely to pay, renegotiated loans are classified as stage 3 until there is sufficient such as when a concession has been granted to the borrower evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of nonfor economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers payment of future cash flows, observed over a minimum one-year financial condition: and period, and there are no other indicators of impairment.
Personal renegotiated loans are deemed to remain credit impaired until the loan is otherwise considered to be in default.
If such repayment or derecognition.
unlikeliness to pay is not identified at an earlier stage, it is deemed to occur when an exposure is 90 days past due, even HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Renegotiated loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by stage allocation Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total $m $m $m $m $m Gross carrying amount Personal 2,248 2,248 first lien residential mortgages 1,641 1,641 other personal lending 607 607 Wholesale 1,532 1,193 3,845 270 6,840 corporate and commercial 1,517 1,193 3,789 270 6,769 non-bank financial institutions 15 56 71 At 31 Dec 2018 1,532 1,193 6,093 270 9,088 Allowance for ECL Personal 381 381 first lien residential mortgages 186 186 other personal lending 195 195 Wholesale 29 49 1,461 146 1,685 corporate and commercial 29 49 1,438 146 1,662 non-bank financial institutions 23 23 At 31 Dec 2018 29 49 1,842 146 2,066 Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by geographical region North Latin Hong Europe Asia MENA America America Total UK Kong $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2018 4,533 864 1,973 1,352 366 9,088 3,609 305 Wholesale lending Excluding foreign exchange movements, the total wholesale lending growth was driven by a $32bn increase in corporate and This section provides further detail on the regions, countries and commercial balances.
The primary driver of this increase was Asia products driving the movement in wholesale loans and advances $18.6bn, most notably in Hong Kong $14bn, India $1.5bn and to customers and banks, with the impact of foreign exchange Australia $1.1bn.
Other notable increases were observed in the separately identified.
Product granularity is also provided by stage UK $5.2bn, the UAE $2.3bn and Canada $3.6bn.
This growth with geographical data presented for loans and advances to was partly offset by a $7.7bn decrease in loans and advances to customers, banks, other credit commitments, financial guarantees banks.
Additionally, this section provides a reconciliation of the opening 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 The allowance for ECL attributable to wholesale lending, excluding off-balance sheet commitments and financial guarantees, of closing gross carrying nominal amounts and the associated allowance for ECL.
This was primarily driven by releases related to the Groups oil and gas Wholesale lending of $668bn increased by $1bn from $667bn sector and by favourable foreign exchange movements.
since the Group transitioned to IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018.
This increase included adverse foreign exchange movements of $23bn.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Wholesale lending reconciliation of changes in gross carrying nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and 8 customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees Audited Non-credit impaired Credit impaired Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Gross Gross Gross Gross Gross carrying carrying carrying carrying carrying nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2018 897,529 873 84,354 1,249 10,209 4,410 1,042 242 993,134 6,774 Transfers of financial instruments 4,477 274 1,535 386 2,942 112 Net remeasurement of ECL arising 262 231 92 61 from transfer of stage Net new and further lending 74,107 271 13,709 342 2,414 406 587 42 57,397 519 repayments Changes to risk parameters credit 157 301 1,041 51 1,236 quality Assets written off 1,182 1,172 1 1 1,183 1,173 Foreign exchange and other 36,104 97 2,777 41 316 90 120 56 39,317 284 At 31 Dec 2018 931,055 902 69,403 1,012 9,239 3,987 334 194 1,010,031 6,095 ECL release charge for the period 148 190 727 9 778 Recoveries 118 Others 69 Total change in ECL for the period 729 For footnotes, see page 147.
As shown in the above table, the allowance for ECL for loans and foreign exchange and other movements of $284m.
advances to customers and banks and relevant loan commitments These decreases were partially offset by increases of: and financial guarantees decreased $679m during the period from $1,236m relating to underlying credit quality changes, $6,774m at 1 January 2018 to $6,095m at 31 December 2018. including the credit quality impact of financial This overall decrease was primarily driven by: instruments transferring between stages: and $1,173m of assets written off: $61m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage $519m relating to underlying net book volume transfers.
movements, which included the ECL allowance associated with new originations, assets derecognised and net further lending: and Wholesale lending distribution of financial instruments by credit quality Gross carrying nominal amount SubCredit Allowance Strong Good Satisfactory standard impaired Total for ECL Net $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m By geography Europe 60,145 62,098 79,466 7,752 4,382 213,843 2,595 211,248 of which: UK 39,840 46,396 56,974 5,164 2,936 151,310 1,782 149,528 Asia 143,864 100,437 86,065 1,977 1,805 334,148 1,376 332,772 of which: Hong Kong 82,854 63,564 55,357 837 797 203,409 601 202,808 MENA 10,393 7,905 9,173 1,186 1,823 30,480 1,170 29,310 North America 10,952 31,278 24,708 2,621 314 69,873 245 69,628 Latin America 3,730 6,088 8,300 1,286 416 19,820 305 19,515 At 31 Dec 2018 229,084 207,806 207,712 14,822 8,740 668,164 5,691 662,473 Percentage of total credit quality 34.3% 31.1% 31.1% 2.2% 1.3% 100.0% Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based Each CRR band is associated with an external rating grade by approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to reference to long-run default rates for that grade, represented by support calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital the average of issuer-weighted historical default rates.
The customer risk rating CRR 10-grade scale mapping between internal and external ratings is indicative and summarises a more granular underlying 23-grade scale of obligor may vary over time.
The PD ranges above are the Basel one-year probability of default 'PD'.
All corporate customers are rated PD ranges.
The credit quality classifications can be found on using the 10- or 23-grade scale, depending on the degree of page79.
sophistication of the Basel approach adopted for the exposure.
investing primarily in income-producing assets and, to a lesser Commercial real estate lending grew $17.7bn, including foreign extent, in their construction and development.
The portfolio is exchange movements, mainly in Hong Kong and, to a lesser globally diversified with larger concentrations in Hong Kong, extent, within the UK and Canada.
The Group has aligned the definition of Refinance risk in commercial real estate commercial real estate to reflect the internal risk management view, and the comparatives on pages 122 to 132 have been Commercial real estate lending tends to require the repayment of re-presented.
a significant proportion of the principal at maturity.
Typically, a customer will arrange repayment through the acquisition of a new Our global exposure is centred largely on cities with economic, loan to settle the existing debt.
Refinance risk is the risk that a political or cultural significance.
In more developed markets, our customer, being unable to repay the debt on maturity, fails to exposure mainly comprises the financing of investment assets, the refinance it at commercial rates.
We monitor our commercial real redevelopment of existing stock and the augmentation of both estate portfolio closely, assessing indicators forsigns of potential commercial and residential markets to support economic and issues with refinancing.
In less-developed commercial real estate markets, our exposures comprise lending for development assets on relatively short tenors with a particular focus on supporting 108 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Commercial real estate gross loans and advances maturity analysis Latin North Europe Asia MENA America America Total UK Hong Kong $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m On demand, overdrafts or revolving 1 year 13,790 22,100 896 4,942 427 42,155 11,305 18,094 12 years 5,850 13,174 305 1,949 117 21,395 5,153 9,120 25 years 7,257 32,894 417 2,152 1,053 43,773 5,232 26,061 5 years 2,796 5,793 318 806 344 10,057 416 4,641 At 31 Dec 2018 29,693 73,961 1,936 9,849 1,941 117,380 22,106 57,916 Collateral and other credit enhancements CDS mitigants are held at portfolio level and are not included in the expected loss calculations.
CDS mitigants are not reported in Audited the following tables.
Although collateral can be an important mitigant of credit risk, it is Collateral on loans and advances the Groups practice to lend on the basis of the customers ability to meet their obligations out of cash flow resources rather than Collateral held is analysed separately for commercial real estate placing primary reliance on collateral and other credit risk and for other corporate, commercial and financial non-bank enhancements.
Depending on the customers standing and the lending.
The following tables include off-balance sheet loan type of product, facilities may be provided without any collateral or commitments, primarily undrawn credit lines.
For other lending, a charge over The collateral measured in the following tables consists of collateral is obtained and considered in determining the credit fixedfirst charges on real estate, and charges over cash and decision and pricing.
In the event of default, the Group may utilise marketable financial instruments.
The values in the tables the collateral as a source of repayment.
represent the expected market value on an open market basis.
No Depending on its form, collateral can have a significant financial adjustment has been made to the collateral for any expected costs effect in mitigating our exposure to credit risk.
Where there is of recovery.
Marketable securities are measured at their fair value.
sufficient collateral, an expected credit loss is not recognised.
This Other types of collateral such as unsupported guarantees and is the case for reverse repurchase agreements and for certain floating charges over the assets of a customers business are not loans and advances to customers where the loan to value LTV is measured in the following tables.
While such mitigants have value, very low.
often providing rights in insolvency, their assignable value is not Mitigants may include a charge on borrowers specific assets, sufficiently certain and they are therefore assigned no value for such as real estate or financial instruments.
Other credit risk disclosure purposes.
mitigants include short positions in securities and financial assets The LTV ratios presented are calculated by directly associating held as part of linked insurance investment contracts where the loans and advances with the collateral that individually and risk is predominantly borne by the policyholder.
Additionally, risk uniquely supports each facility.
When collateral assets are shared may be managed by employing other types of collateral and credit by multiple loans and advances, whether specifically or, more risk enhancements, such as second charges, other liens and generally, by way of an all monies charge, the collateral value is unsupported guarantees.
Guarantees are normally taken from pro-rated across theloans and advances protected by the corporates and export credit agencies ECAs.
normally provide guarantees as part of a parent subsidiary For credit-impaired loans, the collateral values cannot be directly relationship and span a number of credit grades.
The ECAs will compared with impairment allowances recognised.
The LTV normally be investment grade.
figures use open market values with no adjustments.
Impairment Certain credit mitigants are used strategically in portfolio allowances are calculated on a different basis, by considering management activities.
While single name concentrations arise in other cash flows and adjusting collateral values for costs of portfolios managed by Global Banking and Corporate Banking, it is realising collateral as explained further on page 228. only in Global Banking that their size requires the use of portfolio Commercial real estate loans and advances level credit mitigants.
Across Global Banking, risk limits and utilisations, maturity profiles and risk quality are monitored and The value of commercial real estate collateral is determined managed proactively.
This process is key to the setting of risk byusing a combination of external and internal valuations appetite for these larger, more complex, geographically distributed andphysical inspections.
For CRR 17, local valuation policies customer groups.
While the principal form of risk management determine the frequency of review on the basis of local market continues to be at the point of exposure origination, through the conditions because of the complexity of valuing collateral lending decision-making process, Global Banking also utilises loan forcommercial real estate.
For CRR 810, almost all collateral sales and credit default swap CDS hedges to manage would have been revalued within the last three years.
These transactions are the In Hong Kong, market practice is typically for lending to major responsibility of a dedicated Global Banking portfolio management property companies to be either secured by guarantees or team.
Hedging activity is carried out within agreed credit unsecured.
In Europe, facilities of a working capital nature are parameters, and is subject to market risk limits and a robust generally not secured by a first fixed charge, and are therefore governance structure.
Where applicable, CDSs are entered into disclosed as not collateralised.
directly with a central clearing house counterparty.
Otherwise our exposure to CDS protection providers is diversified among mainly banking counterparties with strong credit ratings.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Wholesale lending commercial real estate loans and advances including loan commitments by level of collateral for key countries territories by stage Audited Of which: Total UK Hong Kong US Gross Gross Gross Gross carrying carrying carrying carrying nominal ECL nominal ECL nominal ECL nominal ECL amount coverage amount coverage amount coverage amount coverage $m % $m % $m % $m % Stage 1 Not collateralised 62,123 0.1 10,557 0.2 31,224 Fully collateralised 87,530 0.1 17,766 0.1 39,174 4,862 LTV ratio: less than 50% 46,983 0.1 8,006 0.1 25,870 3,463 51% to 75% 29,621 0.1 8,174 0.1 10,452 0.1 787 76% to 90% 5,167 0.1 1,038 1,168 0.1 519 91% to 100% 5,759 0.1 548 0.2 1,684 0.1 93 Partially collateralised A : 6,129 0.1 515 0.2 2,130 collateral value on A 3,735 285 1,401 Total 155,782 0.1 28,838 0.1 72,528 4,862 Stage 2 Not collateralised 2,249 1.1 446 2.5 1,140 0.2 Fully collateralised 4,739 1.3 782 4.5 1,576 0.4 439 0.5 LTV ratio: less than 50% 2,039 1.1 394 3.6 795 0.4 303 0.7 51% to 75% 1,430 0.7 330 1.2 505 0.4 7 76% to 90% 363 5.0 34 44.1 29 129 91% to 100% 907 1.0 24 8.3 247 Partially collateralised B : 261 1.5 24 12.5 15 collateral value on B 156 20 5 Total 7,249 1.2 1,252 3.9 2,731 0.3 439 Stage 3 Not collateralised 338 57.1 61 85.2 Fully collateralised 606 12.7 433 9.2 12 LTV ratio: less than 50% 412 10.0 304 9.2 2 51% to 75% 88 27.3 58 6.9 10 76% to 90% 38 2.6 35 5.7 91% to 100% 68 16.2 36 16.7 Partially collateralised C : 474 56.5 261 42.9 collateral value on C 321 137 Total 1,418 37.9 755 27.0 12 POCI Not collateralised Fully collateralised 15 53.3 LTV ratio: less than 50% 13 61.5 51% to 75% 2 76% to 90% 91% to 100% Partially collateralised C : collateral value on C Total 15 53.3 At 31 Dec 2018 164,464 0.5 30,845 0.9 75,271 5,301 0.1 110 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Wholesale lending commercial real estate loans and advances including loan commitments by level of collateral for key countries territories Audited Of which: Total UK Hong Kong US Gross Gross Gross Gross carrying carrying carrying carrying nominal ECL nominal ECL nominal ECL nominal ECL amount coverage amount coverage amount coverage amount coverage $m % $m % $m % $m % Rated CRR PD1 to 7 Not collateralised 64,324 0.1 11,001 0.2 32,364 Fully collateralised 91,791 0.1 18,112 0.2 40,747 0.1 5,282 0.1 Partially collateralised A : 6,377 0.2 532 0.6 2,145 collateral value on A 3,879 299 1,406 Total 162,492 0.1 29,645 0.3 75,256 5,282 0.1 Rated CRR PD 8 Not collateralised 49 2.0 2 Fully collateralised 477 1.5 435 1.1 3 33.3 19 LTV ratio: less than 50% 178 1.7 149 1.3 3 33.3 19 51% to 75% 269 0.4 265 0.4 76% to 90% 13 7.7 7 14.3 91% to 100% 17 11.8 14 14.3 Partially collateralised B : 13 7.7 8 12.5 collateral value on B 12 6 Total 539 1.7 445 1.3 3 33.3 19 Rated CRR PD9 to 10 Not collateralised 338 57.1 61 85.2 Fully collateralised 621 13.5 433 9.2 12 LTV ratio: less than 50% 425 11.5 304 9.2 2 51% to 75% 90 26.7 58 6.9 10 76% to 90% 38 2.6 35 5.7 91% to 100% 68 16.2 36 16.7 Partially collateralised C : 474 56.5 261 42.9 collateral value on C 321 137 Total 1,433 38.0 755 27.0 12 At 31 Dec 2018 164,464 0.5 30,845 0.9 75,271 5,301 0.1 Other corporate, commercial and financial non-bank loans Collateral values are generally refreshed when an obligors general credit performance deteriorates and we have to assess the likely and advances performance of secondary sources of repayment should it prove Other corporate, commercial and financial non-bank loans are necessary to rely on them.
analysed separately in the following table, which focuses on the Accordingly, the following table reports values only for customers countries territories containing the majority of our loans and with CRR 810, recognising that these loans and advances advances balances.
For financing activities in other corporate and generally have valuations that are comparatively recent.
commercial lending, collateral value is not strongly correlated toprincipal repayment performance.
Depending on the terms of are employed and methods used to mitigate credit risk arising the arrangement, we may use additional credit mitigation if a from financial assets.
These are summarised below: guarantee is called upon or a loan commitment is drawn and Some securities issued by governments, banks and other subsequently defaults.
financial institutions benefit from additional credit For further information on these arrangements, seeNote33 onthe Financial enhancements provided by government guarantees Statements.
Derivatives Debt securities issued by banks and financial institutions HSBC participates in transactions exposing us to counterparty include asset-backed securities ABSs and similar credit risk.
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of financial loss if the instruments, which are supported by underlying pools of counterparty to a transaction defaults before satisfactorily settling financial assets.
Credit risk associated with ABSs is reduced it.
It arises principally from over-the-counter OTC derivatives and through the purchase ofcredit default swap CDS protection.
securities financing transactions and is calculated in both the Disclosure of the Groups holdings of ABSs and associated CDS protection is trading and non-trading books.
Transactions vary in value by provided onpage 122. reference to a market factor suchas an interest rate, exchange Trading loans and advances mainly pledged against cash rate or asset price.
collateral are posted to satisfy margin requirements.
There is The counterparty risk from derivative transactions is taken into limited credit risk on cash collateral posted since in the event of account when reporting the fair value of derivative positions.
The default of the counterparty these would be set off against the adjustment to the fair value is known as the credit value related liability.
Reverse repos and stock borrowing are by their adjustment CVA.
For an analysis of CVAs, see Note 12 on the Financial Statements.
Collateral accepted as security that the Group is permitted tosell or repledge under these arrangements is described on page 264 of the Financial The following table reflects by risk type the fair values and gross Statements.
notional contract amounts of derivatives cleared through an exchange, central counterparty and non-central counterparty.
This increase included adverse foreign exchange movements of $14bn.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA Excluding foreign exchange movements, there was growth of master agreement is our preferred agreement for documenting $33bn primarily driven by Europe $17bn and Asia $15bn.
It is common, and our preferred practice, forthe parties involved in a derivative transaction to execute a The allowance for ECL attributable to personal lending, excluding credit support annex CSA in conjunction with the ISDA master off-balance sheet commitments and guarantees, remained flat agreement.
Under a CSA, collateral is passed between the parties from 1 January 2018 at $3bn.
This was primarily driven by to mitigate the counterparty risk inherent in outstanding positions.
favourable foreign exchange movements and the stable credit The majority ofour CSAs are with financial institutional clients.
We manage the counterparty exposure on our OTC derivative Excluding foreign exchange movements, the total personal lending contracts by using collateral agreements with counterparties and increase is primarily driven by mortgage balances, which grew by netting agreements.
Currently, we do not actively manage $26bn.
Mortgages in Asia grew by $13bn, notably in Hong Kong ourgeneral OTC derivative counterparty exposure in the credit $9bn and to a lesser extent in Australia $2.6bn, as a result of markets, although we may manage individual exposures in certain continued business growth initiatives and property market growth.
In Europe, mortgages grew by $12bn, notably in the UK $11bn, driven by stronger acquisition performance, including the We place strict policy restrictions on collateral types and as a expanded use of broker relationships.
consequence the types of collateral received and pledged are, by value, highly liquid and of a strong quality, being predominantly The quality of both our Hong Kong and UK mortgage books cash.
remained high, with negligible defaults and impairment allowances.
The average LTV ratio on new mortgage lending in Where a collateral type is required to be approved outside the Hong Kong was 48%, compared with an estimated 42% for the collateral policy, approval is required from a committee of senior overall mortgage portfolio.
The average LTV ratio on new lending representatives from Markets, Legal and Risk.
in the UK was 65%, compared with an estimated 49% for the See page 284 and Note 30 on the Financial Statements for details regarding overall mortgage portfolio.
In 2018, we aligned our global legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and approach in relation to LTV reporting.
This resulted in Hong Kong collateral received in respect of derivatives.
and the UK changing from a simple average to a balance weighted Personal lending average.
They will no longer be comparable to previously reported amounts.
This section presents further disclosures related to personal lending.
It provides details of the regions, countries and products Excluding foreign exchange movements, other personal lending which are driving the change observed in personal loans and balances increased by $8bn since 1 January 2018.
Loans and advances to customers, with the impact of foreign exchange overdrafts grew by $5.3bn in the UK and France.
Additionally, Hong Kong and UK mortgage increased by $1bn, mainly in the US, Hong Kong and to a lesser book LTV data is provided.
This section also provides a reconciliation of the opening 1January 2018 to 31 December 2018 closing gross carrying nominal amounts and associated allowance for ECL.
Further product granularity is also provided by stage, with geographical data presented for loans and advances to customers, loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees.
For interest-only mortgages expiring during branded UK interest-only mortgage loans with balances of 2017, 86% were fully repaid within 12 months of expiry.
This excludes offset mortgages in First Direct, Private The profile of maturing UK interest-only loans is as follows: Bank mortgages, endowment mortgages and other products.
At the end of 2018, the average LTV ratio in the portfolio was 46% and 96% of mortgages had an LTV ratio of 75% or less.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Personal lending reconciliation of changes in gross carrying nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers 8 including loan commitments and financial guarantees Audited Non-credit impaired Credit impaired Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross carrying carrying carrying carrying nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2018 549,328 596 17,678 1,157 4,874 1,312 571,880 3,065 Transfers of financial instruments 4,270 411 2,047 799 2,223 388 Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 358 374 11 27 stage Net new and further lending repayments 52,761 241 2,453 222 488 327 49,820 308 Changes to risk parameters credit quality 266 786 1,197 1,717 Assets written off 1,386 1,380 1,386 1,380 Foreign exchange and other 17,035 77 434 30 230 53 17,699 160 At 31 Dec 2018 580,784 547 16,838 1,266 4,993 1,148 602,615 2,961 ECL release charge for the period 383 938 881 1,436 Recoveries 290 Others 18 Total change in ECL for the period 1,164 For footnotes, see page 147.
As shown in the above table, the allowance for ECL for loans and foreign exchange and other movements of $160m.
advances to customers and banks and relevant loan commitments These decreases were partially offset by increases of: and financial guarantees decreased $104m during the period from $1,717m relating to underlying credit quality changes, $3,065m at 1 January 2018 to $2,961m at 31 December 2018. including the credit quality of financial instruments transferring This overall decrease was primarily driven by: between stages: and $1,380m of assets written off: $27m relating to the net new measurement impact of stage $308m relating to underlying net book volume movements, transfers.
The collateral valuation excludes any Collateral on loans and advances adjustments for obtaining and selling the collateral and, in Audited particular, loans shown as not collateralised or partially The following table provides a quantification of the value of fixed collateralised may also benefit from other forms of credit charges we hold over specific assets where we have a history mitigants.
HSBC Holdings default that are not included in the carrying value.
These offsets also include collateral received in cash and other financial assets.
Audited The total offset relating to our derivative balances is $1.5bn at Risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by the HSBC Holdings Asset 31December 2018 2017:$2.1bn.
and Liability Management Committee Holdings ALCO.
The The credit quality of loans and advances and financial major risks faced by HSBC Holdings are credit risk, liquidity risk investments, both of which consist of intra-Group lending, and market risk in the form of interest rate risk and foreign isassessed as strong or good, with 100% of the exposure being exchange risk.
neither past due nor impaired 2017: 100%.
For further details of Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises from transactions credit quality classification, see page 79. with Group subsidiaries and from guarantees issued in support of Securitisation exposures and other structured products obligations assumed by certain Group operations in the normal conduct of their business.
It principally represents claims on Group The following table summarises the carrying amount of our ABS subsidiaries in Europe and North America.
exposure by categories of collateral.
It includes assets held in the legacy credit portfolio held within Corporate Centre with a carrying In HSBC Holdings, the maximum exposure to credit risk arises value of $5.9bn 2017: $9bn.
from two components: At 31 December 2018, the FVOCI reserve in respect of ABSs was a financial instruments on the balance sheet see page 221 : and deficit of $179m 2017: deficit of $466m.
For 2018, the financial guarantees and similar contracts, where the maximum impairment write-back in respect of ABSs was exposure is the maximum that we would have to pay if the $106m 2017:write-back of $240m.
guarantees were called upon see Note 33.
In the case of our derivative balances, we have amounts with a legally enforceable right of offset in the case of counterparty HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Carrying amount of HSBCs consolidated holdings of ABSs Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily Of which Financial Held at measured at fair held through investments amortised value through profit consolidated Trading at FVOCI cost and loss Total SEs $m $m $m $m $m $m Mortgage-related assets 1,680 15,422 15,498 127 32,727 208 sub-prime residential 17 587 604 50 US Alt-A residential 87 2 94 183 42 22 US Government agency and sponsored enterprises: MBSs 153 14,627 14,657 29,437 UK buy-to-let residential other residential 924 15 780 1,719 10 commercial property 586 106 59 33 784 106 Leveraged finance-related assets 306 40 21 367 200 Student loan-related assets 149 1,815 1 1,965 1,800 Auto finance-related assets 282 2,577 2,859 Other assets 1,136 718 2,323 7 4,184 204 At 31 Dec 2018 3,553 17,995 20,398 156 42,102 2,412 For footnotes, see page 147.
Selected 2017 credit risk disclosures directly comparable to the current 2018 credit risk tables, which are disclosed on an IFRS 9 basis, these 2017 disclosures have The below disclosures were included in our 2017 external reports been shown below and not adjacent to 2018 tables.
and do not reflect the adoption of IFRS 9.
As these tables are not Summary of credit risk At 31 Dec 2017 $bn Maximum exposure to credit risk 3,078 total assets subject to creditrisk 2,306 7,23 off-balance sheet commitments subject tocredit risk 772 Gross loans and advances 1,060 personal lending 376 wholesale lending 684 Impaired loans 15 personal lending 5 wholesale lending 10 Impaired loans as a % of gross loans andadvances % Personal lending 1.3 Wholesale lending 1.5 Total 1.5 $bn Impairment allowances 7.5 personal lending 1.7 wholesale lending 5.8 Loans and advances net of impairment allowances 1,053 For year ended 31 Dec 2017 $bn Loan impairment charge 2.0 personal lending 1.0 wholesale lending 1.0 Other credit risk provisions 0.2 1.8 For footnotes, see page 147.
122 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Credit exposure 2017 Maximum exposure to credit risk 2017 Audited Maximum exposure Offset Net $m $m $m Derivatives 219,818 204,829 14,989 Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 962,964 35,414 927,550 personal 374,762 2,946 371,816 corporate and commercial 516,754 29,459 487,295 non-bank financial institutions 71,448 3,009 68,439 Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost 90,393 273 90,120 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 201,553 3,724 197,829 Total onbalance sheet exposure to credit risk 2,305,592 244,240 2,061,352 Total offbalance sheet 771,908 771,908 23 financial guarantees and similar contracts 41,422 41,422 7 loan and other credit-related commitments 730,486 730,486 At 31 Dec 2017 3,077,500 244,240 2,833,260 For footnotes, see page 147.
Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality Neither past due nor impaired Audited Past due Total Subbut not gross Impairment Strong Good Satisfactory standard impaired Impaired amount allowances Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash and balances atcentral banks 179,155 1,043 407 19 180,624 180,624 Items in the course ofcollection from otherbanks 6,322 29 273 4 6,628 6,628 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 34,186 34,186 34,186 Trading assets 137,983 22,365 26,438 1,949 188,735 188,735 treasury and other eligible bills 15,412 531 491 1,098 17,532 17,532 debt securities 84,493 9,517 12,978 498 107,486 107,486 loans and advances to banks 15,496 5,778 4,757 26 26,057 26,057 loans and advances to customers 22,582 6,539 8,212 327 37,660 37,660 Financial assets designated at fair value 3,378 269 1,029 28 4,704 4,704 Derivatives 181,195 31,827 5,874 922 219,818 219,818 Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 503,759 222,343 204,162 16,114 8,600 15,470 970,448 7,484 962,964 personal 324,960 26,612 14,549 780 4,658 4,922 376,481 1,719 374,762 corporate and commercial 140,382 176,745 176,661 14,784 3,422 10,254 522,248 5,494 516,754 non-bank financial institutions 38,417 18,986 12,952 550 520 294 71,719 271 71,448 Loans and advances tobanks held at amortised cost 77,175 9,026 4,144 39 9 90,393 90,393 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 143,154 32,321 25,636 442 201,553 201,553 Financial investments 356,065 10,463 15,017 2,886 728 385,159 385,159 Other assets 12,714 6,526 10,705 681 107 143 30,876 48 30,828 endorsements and acceptances 1,430 4,636 3,455 183 15 31 9,750 9,750 accrued income andother 11,175 1,837 7,124 361 91 56 20,644 20,644 assets held for sale 109 53 126 137 1 56 482 48 434 At 31 Dec 2017 1,635,086 336,212 293,685 23,084 8,716 16,341 2,313,124 7,532 2,305,592 % % % % % % % Percentage of total grossamount 70.7 14.5 12.7 1.0 0.4 0.7 100.0 Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments 2017 Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments by geographical region North Latin Audited Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2017 1,324 3,892 852 2,015 633 8,716 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Ageing analysis of days for past due but not impaired gross financial instruments 180 days and Audited Up to 29 days 3059 days 6089 days 90179 days over Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Loans and advances to customers and banks held at amortised cost 6,837 1,255 493 10 14 8,609 personal 3,455 866 337 4,658 corporate and commercial 2,899 343 156 10 14 3,422 financial 483 46 529 Other financial instruments 33 12 18 12 32 107 At 31 Dec 2017 6,870 1,267 511 22 46 8,716 Impaired loans 2017 Movement in impaired loans by industry sector Audited Corporate and Personal commercial Financial Total $m $m $m $m At 1Jan 2017 6,490 11,362 376 18,228 Classified as impaired during the year 2,671 3,691 17 6,379 Transferred from impaired to unimpaired during the year 677 1,324 8 2,009 Amounts written off 1,330 1,257 53 2,640 Net repayments and other 2,232 2,218 38 4,488 At 31Dec 2017 4,922 10,254 294 15,470 Impaired loans by industry sector and geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-renegotiated impaired loans 4,551 1,645 870 1,180 452 8,698 personal 1,648 475 227 665 280 3,295 corporate and commercial 2,895 1,146 639 508 172 5,360 financial 8 24 4 7 43 Renegotiated impaired loans 3,491 604 1,079 1,426 172 6,772 personal 381 125 120 958 43 1,627 corporate and commercial 2,926 478 895 466 129 4,894 financial 184 1 64 2 251 At 31 Dec 2017 8,042 2,249 1,949 2,606 624 15,470 Impaired loans % of total gross loans and advances 2.0% 0.5% 5.4% 2.2% 2.6% 1.5% Renegotiated loans and forbearance 2017 Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by industry sector First lien Non-bank residential Other personal Corporate and financial mortgages lending commercial institutions Total $m $m $m $m $m Neither past due nor impaired 476 268 2,082 257 3,083 Past due but not impaired 58 49 120 227 Impaired 1,329 298 4,894 251 6,772 At 31 Dec 2017 1,863 615 7,096 508 10,082 Impairment allowances on renegotiated loans 165 127 1,584 151 2,027 Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2017 5,667 921 1,622 1,604 268 10,082 124 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Impairment of loans and advances 2017 Loan impairment charge to the income statement by industry sector North Latin Audited Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Personal 140 243 92 32 452 959 first lien residential mortgages 6 1 5 27 17 other personal 134 244 87 32 479 976 Corporate and commercial 619 298 83 163 90 927 manufacturing and international trade and services 314 236 95 18 59 722 commercial real estate and other property-related 200 21 4 9 226 other commercial 105 41 8 190 31 21 Financial 66 17 22 1 106 At 31Dec 2017 825 558 197 130 542 1,992 Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers by geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total % % % % % % New allowances net of allowance releases 0.33 0.17 0.79 0.05 3.20 0.29 Recoveries 0.09 0.03 0.14 0.07 0.41 0.07 At 31 Dec 2017 0.24 0.14 0.65 0.12 2.79 0.22 Amount written off net of recoveries 0.23 0.13 1.35 0.28 2.42 0.28 Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector and by geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2017 2,789 1,635 1,681 1,272 473 7,850 Amounts written off Personal 438 366 329 100 487 1,720 first lien residential mortgages 8 6 42 26 9 91 other personal 430 360 287 74 478 1,629 Corporate and commercial 648 273 119 273 63 1,376 manufacturing and international trade and services 318 250 74 44 18 704 commercial real estate and other property-related 121 10 37 20 4 192 other commercial 209 13 8 209 41 480 Financial 74 1 2 77 Total amounts written off 1,160 640 448 375 550 3,173 Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years Personal 296 104 39 38 68 545 first lien residential mortgages 9 4 17 25 55 other personal 287 100 39 21 43 490 Corporate and commercial 35 10 2 37 13 97 manufacturing and international trade and services 10 9 1 11 3 34 commercial real estate and other property-related 8 1 1 10 other commercial 17 1 25 10 53 Financial 2 2 Total recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 333 114 41 75 81 644 Charge to income statement 825 558 197 130 542 1,992 Exchange and other movements 274 5 10 51 47 171 At 31 Dec 2017 3,061 1,672 1,461 791 499 7,484 Impairment allowances against banks: individually assessed Impairment allowances against customers: individually assessed 2,296 1,056 1,104 383 121 4,960 collectively assessed 765 616 357 408 378 2,524 Impairment allowances at 31 Dec 2017 3,061 1,672 1,461 791 499 7,484 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks Audited Customers Banks individually Individually Collectively assessed assessed assessed Total $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2017 4,932 2,918 7,850 Amounts written off 1,468 1,705 3,173 Recoveries of loans and advances previously writtenoff 119 525 644 Charge to income statement 1,114 878 1,992 Exchange and other movements 263 92 171 At 31 Dec 2017 4,960 2,524 7,484 Impairment allowances % ofloans and advances 0.5% 0.3% 0.8% Wholesale lending 2017 24 Total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and customers Impairment Gross loans allowance $m $m Corporate and commercial 522,248 5,494 agriculture, forestry and fishing 6,302 122 mining and quarrying 10,911 450 manufacturing 115,531 1,390 electricity, gas, steam and air-conditioning supply 17,397 88 water supply, sewerage, waste management and remediation 2,806 3 construction 15,443 540 wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles 98,079 1,361 transportation and storage 24,258 131 accommodation and food 16,971 138 publishing, audiovisual and broadcasting 18,405 83 real estate 114,349 638 professional, scientific and technical activities 18,094 95 administrative and support services 19,960 138 public administration and defence, compulsory social security 221 education 1,490 7 health and care 5,688 34 arts, entertainment and recreation 3,003 14 other services 20,354 235 activities of households extra-territorial organisations and bodies activities government 11,728 8 asset-backed securities 1,258 19 Non-bank financial institutions 71,719 271 Loans and advances to banks 90,393 At 31 Dec 2017 684,360 5,765 By geography Europe 228,775 2,469 of which: UK 163,393 1,589 Asia 332,680 1,402 of which: Hong Kong 197,232 639 MENA 29,142 1,131 North America 76,661 579 Latin America 17,102 184 At 31 Dec 2017 684,360 5,765 For footnotes, see page 147.
The net Page stable funding ratio NSFR measures stable funding relative to Liquidity and funding risk in 2018 132 required stable funding, and reflects a banks long-term funding Management of liquidity and funding risk 132 profile funding with a term of more than a year.
It is designed to Sources of funding 133 complement the LCR.
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 135 At 31 December 2018, the Groups principal operating entities HSBC Holdings 135 were within the NSFR risk tolerance level established by the Board and applicable under the LFRF.
Liquidity and funding risk in 2018 The table below displays the NSFR levels for the principal This section provides a summary of our current policies and practices regarding the management of liquidity and funding risk.
HSBC requires all operating entities to comply with its liquidity and funding risk management framework LFRF on a standOperating entities NSFRs alone basis and to meet regulatory and internal minimum At requirements at all times.
The liquidity coverage ratio LCR and 31 Dec 31 Dec net stable funding ratio NSFR are key components of the LFRF.
2018 2017 The liquidity and funding position of the Group remained strong Footnotes % % throughout 2018 as illustrated below.
The methodology used to HSBC Bank plc UK liquidity group pre-ringfencing create a consolidated view of the Groups liquidity using the LCR 25 108 is currently under review and any changes may have an impact on 26 HSBC UK Bank plc ring-fenced bank 144 this disclosure in the future.
The liquidity value is lower than the 27,31 HSBC Bank plc non-ring-fenced bank 113 carrying value due to adjustments applied to comply with the The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking European Commission EC or other local regulators.
Corporation HongKong Branch 28 132 144 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking At Corporation Singapore Branch 28 123 117 31 Dec 30 Jun 31 Dec HSBC Bank USA 131 129 2018 2018 2017 30 HSBC France 113 116 $bn $bn $bn Hang Seng Bank 152 155 High-quality liquid assets liquidity value 567 540 513 30 HSBC Canada 126 136 Net outflows 369 342 360 HSBC Bank China 153 148 Liquidity coverage ratio 154% 158% 142% HSBC Middle East UAE Branch 132 143 HSBC Mexico 123 123 Management of liquidity and funding risk HSBC Private Bank 203 185 Liquidity coverage ratio For footnotes, see page 147.
The LCR aims to ensure that a bank has sufficient unencumbered high-quality liquid assets HQLAs to meet its liquidity needs in a Depositor concentration and term funding maturity 30-calendar-day liquidity stress scenario.
HQLAs consist of cash or concentration assets that can be converted into cash at little or no loss of value.
The LCR and NSFR metrics assume a stressed outflow based ona The Groups LCR is calculated on an EC basis and at 31December portfolio of depositors within retail, corporate and financial deposit 2018 was 154% 31 December 2017: 142%.
The validity of these assumptions is challenged if the At 31 December 2018, all the Groups principal operating entities portfolio of depositors is not large enough to avoid depositor were well above regulatory minimum levels and above the concentration.
internally expected levels established by the Board.
The following Operating entities are exposed to term refinancing concentration table displays the individual LCR levels for our principal operating risk if the current maturity profile results in future maturities being entities on an EC LCR basis.
This basis may vary from local LCR overly concentrated in any defined period.
measures due to differences in the way non-EU regulators have implemented the Basel III recommendations.
At 31 December 2018, all principal operating entities were within the risk tolerance levels set for depositor concentration and term Operating entities LCRs funding maturity concentration.
These risk tolerances were established by the Board and are applicable under the LFRF.
At 31 Dec 31 Dec Liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating entities 2018 2017 The following table shows the liquidity value of the unencumbered Footnotes % % liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating entities at the period HSBC Bank plc UK liquidity group preend as a six-monthly average.
At 31 December 2018, 86% June ring-fencing 25 139 2018: 85% of the liquid assets eligible for inclusion in the Group 26 HSBC UK Bank plc ring-fenced bank 143 consolidated LCR were classified as Level 1.
27 HSBC Bank plc non-ring-fenced bank 147 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 28 161 151 Corporation Hong Kong Branch The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 28,29 149 144 Corporation Singapore Branch HSBC Bank USA 121 132 30 HSBC France 128 149 Hang Seng Bank 202 204 30 HSBC Canada 115 123 HSBC Bank China 153 162 HSBC Middle East UAE Branch 182 197 HSBC Mexico 153 215 HSBC Private Bank 273 220 For footnotes, see page 147.
Sources of funding The table analyses our consolidated balance sheet according to the assets that primarily arise from operating activities and the Audited sources of funding primarily supporting these activities.
Assets Our primary sources of funding are customer current accounts and liabilities that do not arise from operating activities are and customer savings deposits payable on demand or at short presented as a net balancing source or deployment of funds.
We issue wholesale securities secured and unsecured to In 2018, the level of customer accounts continued to exceed the supplement our customer deposits and change the currency mix, level of loans and advances to customers.
The positive funding maturity profile or location of our liabilities and to meet the gap was predominantly deployed in liquid assets cash and Groups minimum requirement for own funds and eligible balances with central banks and financial investments as required liabilities.
The following Funding sources and uses table provides a Loans and advances to banks continued to exceed deposits by consolidated view of how our balance sheet is funded, and should banks, meaning the Group remained a net unsecured lender to the be read in light of the LFRF, which requires operating entities to banking sector.
manage liquidity and funding risk on a stand-alone basis.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Funding sources Funding uses 2018 2017 2018 2017 $m $m Footnotes $m $m Customer accounts 1,362,643 1,364,462 Loans and advances to customers 981,696 962,964 Deposits by banks 56,331 69,922 Loans and advances to banks 72,167 90,393 Reverse repurchase agreements nonRepurchase agreements non-trading 165,884 130,002 242,804 201,553 trading Debt securities in issue 85,342 64,546 Prepayments, accrued income and other Cash collateral, margin and settlement accounts 54,066 N A 47,159 N A assets 5,6 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 313 1,286 Cash collateral, margin and settlement Subordinated liabilities 22,437 19,826 47,159 N A accounts Financial liabilities designated at fair value 148,505 94,429 Assets held for sale 735 781 Liabilities under insurance contracts 87,330 85,667 Trading assets 238,130 287,995 Trading liabilities 84,431 184,361 reverse repos 9,893 10,224 repos 1,495 2,255 stock borrowing 8,387 6,895 stock lending 10,998 8,363 settlement accounts N A 15,258 settlement accounts N A 11,198 other trading assets 219,850 255,618 other trading liabilities 71,938 162,545 Financial investments 407,433 389,076 Total equity 194,249 197,871 Cash and balances with central banks 162,843 180,624 Other balance sheet liabilities 296,593 309,399 Other balance sheet assets 405,157 408,385 At 31 Dec 2,558,124 2,521,771 At 31 Dec 2,558,124 2,521,771 For footnotes, see page 147.
Wholesale term debt maturity profile The maturity profile of our wholesale term debt obligations is set out in the following table.
The balances in the table are not directly comparable with those in the consolidated balance sheet because the table presents gross cash flows relating to principal payments and not the balance sheet carrying value, which include debt securities and subordinated liabilities measured at fair value.
flows relating to principal and future coupon payments except for trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging In addition, loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are generally not recognised on our balance derivatives.
For this reason, balances in the following table do not agree directly with those in our consolidated balance sheet.
The undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under loan Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be called.
liabilities areclassified according to their contractual maturities.
Trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the On demand time bucket and notby contractual maturity.
HSBC Holdings incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments except for derivatives not Liquidity risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by Holdings ALCO.
Undiscounted cash flows payable This risk arises because of HSBC Holdings obligation to make in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according payments to debt holders as they fall due and to pay its operating to their contractual maturities.
Derivatives not treated as hedging expenses.
The liquidity risk related to these cash flows is managed derivatives are included in the On demand time bucket.
by matching external debt obligations with internal loan cash flows and by maintaining an appropriate liquidity buffer that is In addition, loan commitments and financial guarantees and similar contracts are generally not recognised on our balance monitored byHoldings ALCO.
The undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under The balances in the following table are not directly comparable financial guarantees and similar contracts are classified on with those on the balance sheet of HSBC Holdings as the table thebasis of the earliest date on which they can be called.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities Audited Due between On Due within 3 and 12 Due between Due after demand 3 months months 1 and 5 years 5 years Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 949 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 237 2,656 14,384 11,653 Derivatives 1,321 339 499 Debt securities in issue 379 1,159 29,178 30,801 Subordinated liabilities 248 757 4,019 25,311 Other financial liabilities 675 228 1,321 2,488 4,800 47,920 68,264 Loan commitments 8 Financial guarantees 8,627 At 31 Dec 2018 9,948 2,488 4,800 47,920 68,264 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,525 46 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 286 875 16,554 19,465 Derivatives 2,008 293 781 Debt securities in issue 232 1,787 13,975 26,452 Subordinated liabilities 2,113 537 2,852 20,944 Other financial liabilities 849 200 2,008 6,005 3,445 33,674 67,642 Loan commitments 8 Financial guarantees 7,778 At 31 Dec 2017 9,786 6,005 3,445 33,674 67,642 For footnotes, see page 147.
Monetary tightening started across the developed world.
The US Federal Reserve raised official interest rates multiple times during Market risk profile the year and signalled it will raise rates more slowly in 2019.
Bond Page yields started to increase but remained low by historical standards.
Market risk in 2018 136 In the eurozone, the European Central Bank ended its bond-buying Trading portfolios 136 programme, although softening growth and inflation prospects Non-trading portfolios 137 add to the uncertainty of the timing of the next interest rate hike.
Market risk balance sheet linkages 138 Trading value at risk VaR ended the year lower when compared Structural foreign exchange exposures 138 with the previous year.
The trading VaR composition remained Net interest income sensitivity 139 largely the same, with interest rate trading VaR being the largest Sensitivity of capital and reserves 140 individual contributor to overall trading VaR.
Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management 140 Non-trading interest rate VaR ended the year lower when Defined benefit pension schemes 140 compared with the previous year as exposures were managed Additional market risk measures applicable only to the parent company 140 down.
Market risk in 2018 Trading portfolios Market risk is the risk that movements in market factors, such as Value at risk of the trading portfolios foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices Trading VaR predominantly resides within Global Markets where and commodity prices, will reduce our income or the value of our trading VaR was lower at 31 December 2018 compared with portfolios.
Exposure to market risk is separated intotwo portfolios: 31December 2017.
The contributions of each asset class were trading portfolios: and largely range bound during the year.
The decrease in trading VaR from the equity and credit spread Market risk exposures arising from our insurance manufacturing trading VaR components was partially offset by an increase in the operations are discussed on page 86. interest rate and foreign exchange trading VaR components.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the The effects of portfolio diversification reduced the overall trading management of market risk is set out on page 81.
Global markets were characterised by robust economic sentiment at the start of the year.
As the year progressed, economic activity diverged across the global economy against a backdrop of continuing trade and geopolitical tensions: concerns around slowing growth in China: and the continuing uncertainty around the shape of the UKs withdrawal from the EU.
136 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The daily levels of total trading VaR over the last year are set outin the graph below.
Daily VaR trading portfolios, 99% 1 day $m The Group trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.
Back-testing Non-trading VaR includes the interest rate risk in the banking book In 2018, the Group experienced three back-testing exceptions transferred to and managed by Balance Sheet Management BSM and the non-trading financial instruments held by BSM.
against actual profit and loss: a profit exception in February, The management of interest rate risk in the banking book and the driven by gains on short positions on falling index and stock exposures: a profit exception in August, driven by volatility in role of BSM are described further in the following Net interest income sensitivity section.
Turkish lira spot: and a loss exception in December, driven by month-end adjustments that were not in scope of the market risk Non-trading VaR excludes the insurance operations, which are model.
discussed further on page 143, and the interest rate risk in the banking book arising from HSBC Holdings.
The Group also experienced one back-testing profit exception against hypothetical profit and loss in August based on the same The daily levels of total non-trading VaR over the last year are set driver described above.
There was no evidence of model errors or control failures.
The back-testing result excludes exceptions due to changes in fair value adjustments.
Non-trading portfolios Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios Non-trading VaR of the Group includes contributions from all global businesses.
There was no commodity risk in the nontrading portfolios.
The non-trading VaR ended the year lower compared with the previous year, due to a reduction in the nontrading interest rate VaR component.
This was caused by the reduction of the risk in our investment portfolio, specifically from reduced interest rate risk on US Treasuries and agency mortgagebacked securities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Daily VaR non-trading portfolios, 99% 1 day $m The Group non-trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.
Non-trading VaR excludes equity risk on available-for-sale The assets and liabilities included in trading VaR give rise to a securities, structural foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk on large proportion of the income included in net income from fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings.
This section and financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value the sections below describe the scope of HSBCs management of basis.
Adjustments to trading income such as valuation market risks in non-trading books.
adjustments do not affect the trading VaR model.
For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments at Market risk balance sheet linkages fair value, see Note1 on the Financial Statements.
The following balance sheet lines in the Groups consolidated Structural foreign exchange exposures position are subject to market risk: For our policies and procedures for managing structural foreign Trading assets and liabilities exchange exposures, see page 83 of the Risk management The Groups trading assets and liabilities are in almost all cases section.
These assets and liabilities are treated as Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments traded risk for the purposes of market risk management, other in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the functional currencies than a limited number of exceptions, primarily in Global Banking of which are currencies other than the US dollar.
Exchange where the short-term acquisition and disposal of the assets are differences on structural exposures are recognised in Other linked to other non-trading-related activities such as loan comprehensive income.
Derivative assets and liabilities We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks arising from client business, and to manage and hedge our own risks.
Most of our derivative exposures arise from sales and trading activities within GB&M, and are treated as traded risk for market risk management purposes.
138 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The sensitivities shown represent our assessment of the change to Net structural foreign exchange exposures a hypothetical base case NII, assuming a static balance sheet and 2018 2017 no management actions from BSM.
They incorporate the effect of Footnotes $m $m interest rate behaviouralisation, managed rate product pricing Currency of structural exposure assumptions and customer behaviour, for example, prepayment of Hong Kong dollars 41,477 33,992 mortgages or customer migration from non-interest-bearing to 36 Pound sterling 36,642 37,039 interest-bearing deposit accounts under the specific interest rate Chinese renminbi 27,554 27,968 scenarios.
The scenarios represent interest rate shocks to the Euros 20,964 20,269 current market implied path of rates.
Indian rupees 3,837 4,286 The NII sensitivities shown are indicative and based on simplified Mexican pesos 4,363 4,270 scenarios.
Immediate interest rate rises of 25bps and 100bps Canadian dollars 3,815 4,241 would increase projected net interest income for the 12 months to Saudi riyals 3,913 3,971 31 December 2019 by $828m and $2,778m, respectively.
Malaysian ringgit 2,572 2,461 Conversely, falls of 25bps and 100bps would decrease projected Singapore dollars 2,246 2,433 net interest income for the 12 months to 31 December 2019 by UAE dirhams 2,185 2,054 $884m and $3,454m, respectively.
Taiwanese dollars 1,904 1,877 The sensitivity of NII for 12 months decreased by $521m and Australian dollars 1,823 1,892 $747m comparing December 2018 with December 2017 in Indonesian rupiah 1,792 1,845 the plus and minus 100bps parallel shocks, respectively.
These Korean won 1,285 1,423 decreases were driven by movements in the US dollar amounts Swiss francs 987 950 primarily due to changes in balance sheet composition and the Thai baht 856 766 migration of non-interest-bearing liabilities to interest-bearing Brazilian real 707 745 liabilities as interest rates increased.
By contrast, sterling NII Argentine pesos 568 753 sensitivity increased because of higher liquidity linked to UK Turkish lira 507 778 structural reform and preparations surrounding the UKs exit from Others, each less than $700m 5,762 5,623 the European Union.
At 31 Dec 165,759 159,636 The change in NII sensitivity for five years is also driven by the For footnotes, see page 147. factors above.
The structural sensitivity arising from the four global businesses, Shareholders equity would decrease by $2,743m 2017: $2,659m excluding Global Markets, is positive in a rising rate environment if euro and sterling foreign currency exchange rates weakened by and negative in a falling rate environment.
Both BSM and Global 5% relative to the US dollar.
Markets have NII sensitivity profiles that offset this to some Net interest income sensitivity degree.
The tables do not include BSM management actions or changes in Global Markets net trading income that may further The following tables set out the assessed impact to a hypothetical limit the offset.
basecase projection of our net interest income NII excluding insurance under the following scenarios: The limitations of this analysis are discussed within the Risk management section on page73.
an immediate shock of 25 basis points bps to the current market-implied path of interest rates across all currencies on 1 January 2019 effects over one year and five years : and an immediate shock of 100bps to the current market-implied path of interest rates across all currencies on 1 January 2019 effects over one year and five years.
NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves 12 months Currency US dollar HK dollar Sterling Euro Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Change in Jan 2019 to Dec 2019 based on balance sheet at 31 December 2018 25bps parallel 70 232 198 115 213 828 -25bps parallel 160 301 244 8 187 884 100bps parallel 147 773 777 408 673 2,778 -100bps parallel 523 1,046 1,122 9 772 3,454 Change in Jan 2018 to Dec 2018 based on balance sheet at 31 December 2017 25bps parallel 227 179 147 50 203 806 -25bps parallel 287 305 181 8 160 925 100bps parallel 845 711 600 412 731 3,299 -100bps parallel 1,444 1,425 631 31 732 4,201 The net interest income sensitivities arising from the scenarios presented in the tables above are not directly comparable.
This is due to timing differences relating to interest rate changes and the repricing of assets and liabilities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves 5 years Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Change in Jan 2019 to Dec 2019 based on balance sheet at 31 December 2018 25bps parallel 828 1,155 1,416 1,529 1,428 6,356 -25bps parallel 884 1,127 1,206 1,296 1,597 6,110 100bps parallel 2,778 3,863 4,542 4,968 5,096 21,247 -100bps parallel 3,454 4,632 5,276 5,691 6,187 25,240 Change in Jan 2018 to Dec 2018 based on balance sheet at 31 December 2017 25bps parallel 806 1,153 1,326 1,439 1,507 6,231 -25bps parallel 925 872 1,154 1,271 1,381 5,603 100bps parallel 3,299 4,463 5,105 5,472 5,759 24,098 -100bps parallel 4,201 4,538 5,102 5,498 5,813 25,152 Sensitivity of capital and reserves the expected reduction in valuation of cash flow hedges due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps in all yield curves.
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income These particular exposures form only a part of our overall interest reserves are included as part of CET1 capital.
We measure the rate exposure.
potential downside risk to the CET1 ratio due to interest rate and The following table describes the maximum and minimum credit spread risk in this portfolio using the portfolios stressed VaR, with a 99% confidence level and an assumed holding period sensitivity of our cash flow hedge reported reserves to the stipulated movements in yield curves during the year.
AtDecember 2018, the stressed VaR of the portfolio was $2.9bn 2017: $2.6bn.
sensitivities are indicative and based on simplified scenarios.
We monitor the sensitivity of reported cash flow hedging reserves to interest rate movements on a six-monthly basis by assessing Sensitivity of cash flow hedging reported reserves to interest rate movements Maximum Minimum impact impact $m $m At 31 Dec 2018 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 684 492 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.37 % 0.26 % -100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 720 550 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.39% 0.30% At 31 Dec 2017 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 839 684 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.44 % 0.36 % -100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 860 720 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.45% 0.38% Interbank lending decreased by $11bn, largely driven by money Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management market and term lending operations in Asia.
For our BSM governance framework, see page 83 of Risk management.
Reverse repo activity decreased by $16bn, reflecting in part the Third-party assets in BSM decreased by 5% during 2018.
Cash and management of cash surplus in North America.
Financial balances at central banks decreased by $17bn, predominantly in investments increased by $17bn, driven by an increase in Europe as a result of cash funding requirements across investments across Asia and Europe.
Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management 2018 2017 $m $m Cash and balances at central banks 144,802 161,715 Trading assets 601 637 Loans and advances: to banks 25,257 36,047 to customers 964 3,202 Reverse repurchase agreements 22,899 38,842 Financial investments 333,622 309,908 Other 6,880 4,648 At 31 Dec 535,025 554,999 Defined benefit pension schemes Additional market risk measures applicable only to the parent company Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are not fully HSBC Holdings uses VaR to monitor and manage foreign matched by assets with determinable cash flows.
In order to manage interest rate risk, HSBC Holdings uses the projected sensitivity of its net interest income to For details of our defined benefit schemes, including asset allocation, see future changes in yield curves and the interest rate gap repricing Note 6 on the Financial Statements, and for pension risk management seepage 87. tables.
140 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Foreign exchange risk Sensitivity of net interest income Total foreign exchange VaR arising within HSBC Holdings in2018 HSBC Holdings monitors NII sensitivity over a five-year time was as follows.
horizon, reflecting the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk management appropriate to a financial services holding company.
These sensitivities assume that any issuance where HSBC HSBC Holdings foreign exchange VaR Holdings has an option to reimburse at a future call date is called 2018 2017 at this date.
The table below sets out the effect on HSBC Holdings $m $m future NII over a five-year time horizon of incremental 25bps At 31 Dec 77.7 78.9 parallel falls or rises in all yield curves at the beginning of each Average 79.5 86.1 quarter during the 12 months from 1January 2018.
Minimum 77.7 74.9 The NII sensitivities shown are indicative and based on simplified Maximum 93.7 101.2 scenarios.
Immediate interest rate rises of 25bps and 100bps The foreign exchange risk arises from loans to subsidiaries of a would decrease projected net interest income for the 12 months to capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency 31 December 2019 by $7m and $29m, respectively.
Conversely, of either the provider or the recipient and that are accounted for as falls of 25bps and 100bps would increase projected net interest financial assets, and from structural foreign exchange hedges.
income for the 12 months to 31 December 2019 by $10m and Changes in the carrying amount of these loans due to foreign $43m, respectively.
exchange rate differences, and changes in the fair value of foreign exchange hedges are taken directly to HSBC Holdings income statement.
NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves 12 months US dollar HK dollar Sterling Euro Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Change in Jan 2019 to Dec 2019 based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2018 25bps 10 8 5 7 -25bps 10 8 8 10 100bps 38 31 22 29 -100bps 38 28 33 43 Change in Jan 2018 to Dec 2018 based on balance sheet at 31 December 2018 25bps 32 3 2 34 -25bps 32 3 10 26 100bps 129 12 6 135 -100bps 129 8 40 97 NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves 5 years Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Change in Jan 2019 to Dec 2019 based on balance sheet at 31 December 2018 25bps 7 9 9 4 8 37 -25bps 10 12 11 11 11 55 100bps 29 36 36 16 32 149 -100bps 43 47 47 29 42 208 Change in Jan 2018 to Dec 2018 based on balance sheet at 31 December 2018 25bps 34 52 52 53 53 244 -25bps 26 47 57 53 53 236 100bps 135 208 210 210 210 973 -100bps 97 168 189 201 205 860 The interest rate sensitivities in the preceding table are indicative Interest rate repricing gap table andbased on simplified scenarios.
The figures represent The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC hypothetical movements in NII based on our projected yield curve Holdings is not included within the Group VaR, but is managed on scenarios, HSBC Holdings current interest rate risk profile and a repricing gap basis.
The following interest rate repricing gap assumed changes to that profile during the next five years.
table analyses the full-term structure of interest rate mismatches The sensitivities represent our assessment of the change to a within HSBC Holdings balance sheet where debt issuances are hypothetical base case based on a static balance sheet reflected based on either the next reprice date if floating rate or assumption, and do not take intoaccount the effect of actions the maturity call date whichever is first if fixed rate.
thatcould be taken to mitigate this interest rate risk.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings Up to From over From over More than Non-interest Total 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years 10 years bearing Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 3,509 3,509 Derivatives 707 707 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 79,657 39,316 16,717 18,382 2,000 3,242 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings Investments in subsidiaries 160,231 4,703 2,136 379 153,013 Other assets 1,077 1,077 Total assets 245,181 47,528 18,853 18,761 2,000 158,039 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 949 949 Financial liabilities designated at fair values 25,049 1,920 11,871 9,299 750 1,208 Derivatives 2,159 2,159 Debt securities in issue 50,800 14,879 16,753 18,156 2,900 1,888 Other liabilities 1,156 1,156 Subordinated liabilities 17,715 1,646 4,476 10,317 1,277 Total equity 147,353 1,450 9,861 10,777 1,372 123,893 Total liabilities and equity 245,181 19,895 38,485 42,708 15,339 128,754 Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate 30,713 10,544 12,718 6,410 1,041 Net interest rate risk gap at 31 Dec 2018 3,080 9,088 11,229 6,929 30,326 Cumulative interest rate gap 3,080 12,168 23,397 30,326 Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 1,985 1,985 Derivatives 2,388 2,388 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 88,571 63,237 6,027 12,521 3,351 3,435 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 4,264 2,375 1,596 Investments in subsidiaries 92,930 4,866 2,640 85,424 Other assets 1,596 1,596 Total assets 191,734 72,463 8,667 12,521 3,351 94,732 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,157 2,571 Financial liabilities designated at fair values 30,890 12,895 10,175 4,453 3,367 Derivatives 3,082 3,082 Debt securities in issue 34,258 8,433 9,017 14,517 3,351 1,060 Other liabilities 1,269 1,269 Subordinated liabilities 15,877 1,918 1,798 2,000 9,713 448 Total equity 103,787 7,450 6,047 8,899 1,498 79,893 Total liabilities and equity 191,734 17,801 29,757 35,591 19,015 89,570 Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate 41,199 17,812 14,171 7,705 1,511 39 Net interest rate risk gap at 31 Dec 2017 13,463 3,278 8,899 7,959 6,673 Cumulative interest rate gap 13,463 10,185 1,286 6,673 For footnotes, see page 147. increased monitoring and enhanced detective controls tomanage fraud risks, which arise from new technologies and Operational risk profile new ways of banking: Operational risk is the risk to achieving our strategy or objectives strengthened internal security controls to help prevent cyberas a result of inadequate or failed internal processes, people and attacks: systems or from external events.
improved controls and security to protect customers when Responsibility for minimising operational risk lies with HSBCs using digital channels: and employees.
They are required to manage the operational risks of enhanced our third-party risk management capability to help the business and operational activities for which they are enable the consistent risk assessment of any third-party responsible.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the Further information on the nature of these risks is provided in management of operational risk is set out on page 84.
Topand emerging risks on page69 and in Risk management Operational risk exposures in 2018 from pages 73 to 88.
In 2018, we continued our ongoing work to strengthen those Operational risk losses in 2018 controls that manage our most material risks.
Among other Operational risk losses in 2018 were higher than in 2017, reflecting measures, we: an increase in losses incurred relating to large legacy conductfurther enhanced our controls to help ensure that we know our related events.
For further details see Note 35 on the Financial customers, ask the right questions, monitor transactions and Statements and on conduct-related costs included in significant escalate concerns to detect, prevent and deter financial crime items on page 66. risk: implemented a number of initiatives to raise our standards in relation to the conduct of our business as described on page 84 of the Regulatory compliance risk management section: 142 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 We have life insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in nine Insurance manufacturing operations risk profile countries and territories Hong Kong, France, Singapore, UK, mainland China, Malta, Mexico, Argentina and Malaysia.
We also Page have a life insurance manufacturing associate in India.
Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2018 143 HSBCs bancassurance model 143 Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale tobe Measurement 143 an effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a small Key risk types 145 number of leading external insurance companies in order to Market risk 145 provide insurance products to our customers through our banking Credit risk 146 network and direct channels.
These arrangements aregenerally Liquidity risk 146 structured with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Insurance risk 146 Group a combination of commissions, fees and a share of profits.
We distribute insurance products in all of our geographical Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2018 regions.
The majority of the risk in our insurance business derives from Insurance products are sold worldwide, predominantly by RBWM, manufacturing activities and can be categorised as financial risk or CMB and GPB through our branches and direct channels.
Financial risks include market risk, credit risk and Measurement liquidity risk.
Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to the Audited issuer HSBC.
The risk profile of our insurance manufacturing businesses is A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the management measured using an economic capital approach.
Assets and of insurance risk is set out on page 86. liabilities are measured on a market value basis, and a capital requirement is defined to ensure that there is a less than oneHSBCs bancassurance model in-200 chance of insolvency over a one-year time horizon, given We operate an integrated bancassurance model that provides the risks to which the businesses are exposed.
The methodology insurance products principally for customers with whom we have for the economic capital calculation is largely aligned to the pana banking relationship.
European Solvency II insurance capital regulations.
The economic The insurance contracts we sell relate to the underlying needs of capital coverage ratio economic net asset value divided by the our banking customers, which we can identify from our point-ofeconomic capital requirement is a key risk appetite measure.
sale contacts and customer knowledge.
For the products we The business has a current appetite to remain above 140% witha manufacture, the majority ofsales are of savings, universal life and tolerance of 110%.
In addition to economic capital, the regulatory credit and term life contracts.
solvency ratio is also a metric used to manage risk appetite on an By focusing largely onpersonal and small and medium enterprises entity basis.
SME lines of business, we are able to optimise volumes and The following tables show the composition of assets and liabilities diversify individual insurance risks.
We choose to manufacture by contract type and by geographical region.
these insurance products in HSBC subsidiaries based on an assessment of operational scale and risk appetite.
Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks and rewards associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping part of the underwriting profit and investment income within the Group.
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract Audited Shareholder With assets and Other 40 DPF Unit-linked contracts liabilities Total Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets 66,735 7,337 15,552 7,120 96,744 trading assets financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair 17,855 7,099 3,024 1,264 29,242 value through profit or loss derivatives 200 33 4 237 financial investments at amortised cost 33,575 70 11,597 4,171 49,413 financial investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 11,499 450 1,385 13,334 41 other financial assets 3,606 168 448 296 4,518 Reinsurance assets 1,255 69 1,368 2,692 42 PVIF 7,149 7,149 Other assets and investment properties 2,670 2 235 453 3,360 Total assets 70,660 7,408 17,155 14,722 109,945 Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value 1,574 3,884 5,458 Liabilities under insurance contracts 69,269 5,789 12,272 87,330 43 Deferred tax 179 21 15 1,051 1,266 Other liabilities 3,659 3,659 Total liabilities 69,448 7,384 16,171 4,710 97,713 Total equity 12,232 12,232 Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2018 69,448 7,384 16,171 16,942 109,945 For footnotes, see page 147.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract continued Audited Shareholder Other assets and With 40 DPF Unit-linked contracts liabilities Total Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets 65,112 9,081 14,849 6,662 95,704 trading assets financial assets designated at fair value 15,533 8,814 2,951 1,259 28,557 derivatives 286 13 41 340 44 financial investments HTM 29,302 6,396 3,331 39,029 44 financial investments AFS 15,280 4,836 1,877 21,993 41 other financial assets 4,711 267 653 154 5,785 Reinsurance assets 1,108 274 1,154 2,536 42 PVIF 6,610 6,610 Other assets and investment properties 1,975 2 164 1,126 3,267 Total assets 68,195 9,357 16,167 14,398 108,117 Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value 1,750 3,885 5,635 Liabilities under insurance contracts 67,137 7,548 10,982 85,667 43 Deferred tax 14 6 9 1,230 1,259 Other liabilities 3,325 3,325 Total liabilities 67,151 9,304 14,876 4,555 95,886 Total equity 12,231 12,231 Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2017 67,151 9,304 14,876 16,786 108,117 For footnotes, see page 147.
45 Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by geographical region Audited Latin Europe Asia America Total Footnotes $m $m $m $m Financial assets 28,631 66,793 1,320 96,744 trading assets financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 13,142 15,774 326 29,242 through profit or loss derivatives 121 116 237 financial investments at amortised cost 296 48,595 522 49,413 financial investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 12,453 440 441 13,334 41 other financial assets 2,619 1,868 31 4,518 Reinsurance assets 249 2,438 5 2,692 42 PVIF 832 6,195 122 7,149 Other assets and investment properties 1,053 2,280 27 3,360 Total assets 30,765 77,706 1,474 109,945 Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value 780 4,678 5,458 Liabilities under insurance contracts 26,375 59,829 1,126 87,330 43 Deferred tax 209 1,050 7 1,266 Other liabilities 1,690 1,911 58 3,659 Total liabilities 29,054 67,468 1,191 97,713 Total equity 1,711 10,238 283 12,232 Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2018 30,765 77,706 1,474 109,945 Financial assets 30,231 63,973 1,500 95,704 trading assets financial assets designated at fair value 12,430 15,633 494 28,557 derivatives 169 171 340 44 financial investments HTM 38,506 523 39,029 44 financial investments AFS 15,144 6,393 456 21,993 41 other financial assets 2,488 3,270 27 5,785 Reinsurance assets 469 2,063 4 2,536 42 PVIF 773 5,709 128 6,610 Other assets and investment properties 1,666 1,577 24 3,267 Total assets 33,139 73,322 1,656 108,117 Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value 739 4,896 5,635 Liabilities under insurance contracts 28,416 56,047 1,204 85,667 43 Deferred tax 217 1,033 9 1,259 Other liabilities 2,043 1,209 73 3,325 Total liabilities 31,415 63,185 1,286 95,886 Total equity 1,724 10,137 370 12,231 Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2017 33,139 73,322 1,656 108,117 For footnotes, see page 147.
144 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key risk types DPF products expose HSBC to the risk of variation in asset returns, which will impact our participation in the investment performance.
The key risks for the insurance operations are market risks in In addition, in some scenarios the asset returns can become particular interest rate and equity and credit risks, followed by insurance underwriting risk and operational risks.
Liquidity risk, insufficient to cover the policyholders financial guarantees, in which case the shortfall has to be met by HSBC.
Reserves are held while significant for the bank, is minor for our insurance operations.
against the cost of such guarantees, calculated by stochastic modelling.
Market risk Where local rules require, these reserves are held as part Audited ofliabilities under insurance contracts.
Any remainder is Description and exposure accounted for as a deduction from the present value of in-force PVIF long-term insurance business on the relevant product.
The Market risk is the risk of changes in market factors affecting following table shows the total reserve held for the cost of HSBCs capital or profit.
Market factors include interest rates, guarantees, the range of investment returns on assets supporting equity and growth assets and foreign exchange rates.
these products and the implied investment return that would Our exposure varies depending on the type of contract issued.
enable the business to meet the guarantees.
Ourmost significant life insurance products are contracts with The cost of guarantees decreased to $669m 2017: $696m discretionary participating features DPF issued in France and primarily due to sales of new products with lower guarantees in Hong Kong.
These products typically include some form of capital Hong Kong and updates to modelling assumptions.
guarantee or guaranteed return on the sums invested bythe policyholders, to which discretionary bonuses are added ifallowed For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne bythe by the overall performance of the funds.
These funds are primarily policyholder, but some market risk exposure typically remains, as invested in bonds, with a proportion allocated to other asset fees earned are related to the market value of the linked assets.
classes to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns.
Financial return guarantees Audited 2018 2017 Long-term Long-term investment investment Investment returns on Investment returns on returns implied relevant Cost of returns implied relevant Cost of by guarantee portfolios guarantees by guarantee portfolios guarantees Footnotes % % $m % % $m Capital 0.0 2.23.0 100 0.0 2.33.2 103 Nominal annual return 0.12.0 3.63.7 78 0.12.0 3.23.7 64 46 Nominal annual return 2.14.0 2.74.6 420 2.14.0 3.24.4 459 Nominal annual return 4.15.0 2.74.1 71 4.15.0 3.24.1 70 At 31 Dec 669 696 For footnotes, see page 147.
Sensitivities to measure sensitivities to different levels of stress.
For the same reason, the impact of the stress is not necessarily symmetrical on Changes in financial market factors, from the economic the upside and downside.
The sensitivities are stated before assumptions in place at the start of the year, had a negative allowance for management actions which may mitigate the effect impact on reported profit before tax of $326m 2017: $296m of changes in the market environment.
The following table illustrates the effects of selected allow for adverse changes in policyholder behaviour that may arise interest rate, equity price and foreign exchange rate scenarios on in response to changes in market rates.
our profit for the year and the total equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
Interest rate movements have historically had a greater impact on total equity as changes in the market value of available-for-sale Where appropriate, the effects of the sensitivity tests on profit AFS bonds are recognised directly in equity.
This impact has after tax and equity incorporate the impact of the stress on the reduced in 2018 due to the reclassification of debt securities in PVIF.
Due in part to the impact of the cost of guarantees and Hong Kong and Singapore from AFS to amortised cost on the hedging strategies which may be in place, the relationship implementation of IFRS 9. between the profit and total equity and the risk factors is nonlinear.
Therefore, the results disclosed should not be extrapolated Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors Audited 2018 2017 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on profit after tax total equity profit after tax total equity $m $m $m $m 100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves 9 61 42 583 -100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves 28 46 140 617 10% increase in equity prices 213 213 223 237 10% decrease in equity prices 202 202 225 239 10% increase in US dollar exchange rate compared with all currencies 36 36 24 24 10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared with all currencies 36 36 24 24 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Credit risk risk associated with credit spread volatility is to a large extent mitigated by holding debt securities to maturity, and sharing a Audited degree of credit spread experience with policyholders.
Description and exposure Liquidity risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty Audited fails to meet their obligation under a contract.
It arises in two main areas for our insurance manufacturers: Description and exposure risk associated with credit spread volatility and default by debt Liquidity risk is the risk that an insurance operation, though security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources return for policyholders and shareholders: and available to meet its obligations when they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and nonreimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk.
The following table shows the expected undiscounted cash flows for insurance liabilities at 31 December 2018.
The liquidity risk The amounts outstanding at the balance sheet date in respect exposure is wholly borne by the policyholder in the case of unitofthese items are shown in the table on page 143. linked business and is shared with the policyholder for non-linked The credit quality of the reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance.
insurance contracts is assessed as satisfactory or higher as The profile of the expected maturity of insurance contracts at defined on page 79, with 100% of the exposure being neither past 31December 2018 remained comparable with 2017. due nor impaired 2017: 100%.
The remaining contractual maturity of investment contract Credit risk on assets supporting unit-linked liabilities is liabilities is included in Note 29 on page 280. predominantly borne by the policyholder.
Therefore, our exposure is primarily related to liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment contracts and shareholders funds.
The credit quality of insurance financial assets is included in thetable on page 100.
To the extent that increased Description and exposure expenses cannot be passed on to policyholders, anincrease in Insurance risk is the risk of loss through adverse experience, in expense rates will have a negative effect on ourprofits.
either timing or amount, of insurance underwriting parameters non-economic assumptions.
These parameters include mortality, Sensitivity analysis morbidity, longevity, lapses and unit costs.
Audited The principal risk we face is that, over time, the cost of the 2018 2017 contract, including claims and benefits, may exceed the total $m $m amount of premiums and investment income received.
Effect on profit after tax and total equity The tables on pages 143 and 145 analyse our life insurance risk at 31 Dec exposures by type of contract and by geographical region.
10% increase in mortality and or morbidity rates 77 77 10% decrease in mortality and or morbidity rates 82 82 The insurance risk profile and related exposures remain largely 10% increase in lapse rates 95 93 consistent with those observed at 31 December 2017.
10% decrease in lapse rates 107 106 Sensitivities 10% increase in expense rates 92 92 Audited 10% decrease in expense rates 93 91 The following table shows the sensitivity of profit and total equity to reasonably possible changes in non-economic assumptions across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
Mortality and morbidity risk is typically associated with life insurance contracts.
The effect on profit of an increase in mortality or morbidity depends on the type of business being written.
Our largest exposures to mortality and morbidity risk exist in Hong Kong and Singapore.
Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type of contracts beingwritten.
For a portfolio of term assurance, an increase in lapse rates typically has a negative effect on profit due to the loss offuture income on the lapsed policies.
However, some contract lapses have a positive effect on profit due to the existence of policy surrender charges.
We are most sensitive toa change in lapse rates on unit-linked and universal life contracts in Hong Kong and Singapore, and DPF contracts inFrance.
146 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 HSBC Bank plc includes all overseas branches, and SPEs consolidated by Footnotes to Risk HSBC Bank plc for Financial Statements purposes.
28 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Hong Kong branch and 1 Customer risk rating CRR.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Singapore branch represent the material activities of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 2 12-month point-in-time PIT probability-weighted probability of default Corporation.
Each branch is monitored and controlled for liquidity and PD.
funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity.
3 The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued byHSBC Holdings is 29 The comparative figures have been re-presented to reflect revised data.
not included in the Group VaR.
The management of this risk is described on 30 HSBC France and HSBC Canada represent the consolidated banking page132.
operations of the Group in France and Canada, respectively.
HSBC France 4 BSM, for external reporting purposes, forms part of Corporate Centre while andHSBC Canada are each managed as single distinct operating entities for daily operations and risk are managed within GB&M.
5 The total ECL is recognised in the loss allowance for the financial asset 31 In adopting the NSFR BCBS 295 as a key internal risk management metric, unless the total ECL exceeds the gross carrying amount of the financial the HSBC Group has, until such time that the NSFR becomes a binding asset, in which case the ECL is recognised as a provision.
regulatory requirement on the Group or the operating entity locally, permitted entities to reduce the amount of required stable funding 6 Includes only those financial instruments that are subject to the impairment requirement RSF for listed equities where the valuation risk has been requirements of IFRS 9.
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets as hedged through an exchange traded daily cash margined derivative, due to presented within the consolidated balance sheet on page 216 includes both financial and non-financial assets.
managements view as to the speed at which these assets could be monetised under stress and the mitigation of the valuation risk.
At 31 7 31 December 2017 balances have been restated to include $44bn of loan December 2018, only HSBC Bank plc were applying a lower RSF to such commitments unsettled reverse repurchase agreements not previously equities.
The NSFRs presented seek to reflect the internal management view identified for disclosure.
8 Excludes performance guarantee contracts to which the impairment 32 The total shown for other principal HSBC operating entities represents the requirements in IFRS 9 are not applied.
combined position of all the other operating entities overseen directly by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB.
9 Represents the maximum amount at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
33 Structured liabilities have moved from Trading liabilities to Financial liabilities designated at fair value.
Comparatives have not been restated.
See 10 Debt instruments measured at FVOCI continue to be measured at fair value Note 37 for further detail.
with the allowance for ECL as a memorandum item.
Change in ECL is 34 The undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under financial guarantees recognised in Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be called.
Application charges in the income statement.
of this policy throughout the Group was improved in 2018, and therefore 11 Purchased or originated credit-impaired POCI.
comparative information has been represented.
Up to date accounts in Stage 2 are not shown in 35 Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from the market-making and amounts.
36 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a 13 Excludes ECL and financial instruments relating to defaulted obligors portfolio containing different risk types.
It represents the reduction in because the measurement of ECL is relatively more sensitive to credit factors unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different specific to the obligor than future economic scenarios.
risk types: for example, interest rate, equity and foreign exchange, together 14 Includes off-balance sheet financial instruments that are subject to inone portfolio.
It is measured as the difference between the sum of the significant measurement uncertainty.
VaRby individual risk type and the combined total VaR.
A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification.
As the maximum and 15 Includes low credit-risk financial instruments such as Debt instruments at minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not FVOCI, which have low ECL coverage ratios under all the above scenarios.
meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.
Coverage ratios on loans and advances to customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees are typically higher.
For example, in 37 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
the UK the coverage ratio for reported ECL is 0.39%, UK AD1 0.43% and UK 38 At 31 December, we had forward foreign exchange contracts of $5bn 2017: AD230.720.81%.
For US, the coverage ratio for these instruments for $5bn in order to manage our sterling structural foreign exchange exposure.
reported ECL is 0.11% and for Hong Kong 0.06% for the reported ECL and 39 Investments in subsidiaries and equity have been allocated based on call 0.20% for the trade Downside scenario.
dates for any callable bonds.
The prior year figures have been amended to 16 ECL sensitivities exclude portfolios utilising less complex modelling reflect this.
40 Other Contracts includes term insurance, credit life insurance, universal life 17 ECL sensitivity includes only on-balance sheet financial instruments to which insurance and investment contracts not included in the Unit-linked or With IFRS 9 impairment requirements are applied.
41 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and inter-company 18 For the purposes of this disclosure gross carrying value is defined as the balances with other non-insurance legal entities.
amortised cost of a financial asset, before adjusting for any loss allowance.
As such the gross carrying value of debt instruments at FVOCI as presented 42 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business.
above will not reconcile to the balance sheet as it excludes fair value gains 43 Deferred tax includes the deferred tax liabilities arising on recognition of and losses.
19 Revocable loan and other commitments of $188bn which are out-of-scope 44 Financial investments held to maturity HTM and available for sale AFS.
of IFRS 9 are presented within the strong credit quality classification.
45 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in Middle East and North 20 12 month point in time PiT adjusted for multiple economic scenarios Africa or North America.
21 Real estate lending within this disclosure corresponds solely to the industry 46 A block of contracts in France with guaranteed nominal annual returns in the of the borrower.
Commercial real estate on page 108 includes borrowers in range 1.25%-3.72% is reported entirely in the 2.1%-4.0% category in line multiple industries investing in income producing assets and to a lesser with the average guaranteed return of 2.6% offered to policyholders by extent, their construction and development.
23 31 December 2017 balances have been restated to include $3bn of performance and other guarantees not previously identified for disclosure.
24 The disclosure is a comparative for the 2018 Total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and customers by stage distribution table and was not presented in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017.
25 The HSBC UK Liquidity Group shown comprises four legal entities: HSBC Bank plc including all overseas branches, and SPEs consolidated by HSBC Bank plc for Financial Statement purposes, Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc, HSBC Private Bank UK Ltd and HSBC Trust Company UK Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the UK PRA.
26 The HSBC UK Liquidity Group shown comprises four legal entities: HSBC UK Bank plc including the Dublin branch, Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc, HSBC Private Bank UK Ltd and HSBC Trust Company UK Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the UK PRA.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
