Strategic Report Risk overview We actively manage risk to help protect and enable the business.
Managing risk HSBC has maintained a conservative planning process.
It is articulated in our participated in the Bank of Englands and consistent approach to risk risk appetite statement, which is approved BoE annual stress test, which showed throughout its history, helping by the Board.
Key elements include: that our capital ratios, after taking to ensure we protect customers account of CRD IV restrictions and risks that we accept as part of doing funds, lend responsibly and support strategic management actions, exceeded business, such as credit risk and economies.
By carefully aligning our the BoEs requirements.
market risk: risk appetite to our strategy, we aim Internal stress tests are an important risks that we incur as part of doing to deliver sustainable long-term element in our risk management and business, such as operational risk, shareholder returns.
They which are actively managed to remain All employees are responsible for assess the impacts of potential adverse below an acceptable tolerance: and the management of risk, with the macroeconomic, geopolitical and other risks for which we have zero tolerance, ultimate accountability residing with HSBC-specific events.
The selection of such as knowingly engaging in activities the Board.
We have a strong risk scenarios reflects our top and emerging where foreseeable reputational risk has culture, which is embedded through risks identification process and our risk not been considered.
clear and consistent communication appetite.
Stress testing analysis helps We operate a wide-ranging stress testing and appropriate training for all management understand the nature programme undertaking both internal employees.
A comprehensive risk and extent of vulnerabilities to which and regulatory stress tests.
In 2018, we management framework is applied the Group is exposed.
throughout the Group, with governance and corresponding risk Key risk appetite metrics management tools.
This framework Risk is underpinned by our risk culture Component Measure appetite 2018 and reinforced by the HSBC Values.
Returns Return on tangible equity RoTE 11.0% 8.6% Our Global Risk function oversees Capital CET1 ratio CRD IV end point basis 13.5% 14.0% the framework and is led by the Group Chief Risk Officer, an executive Change in Change in expected credit losses 0.50% 0.34% Director.
It is independent from the expected credit and other credit impairment charges global businesses, including our losses and other as a % of advances: RBWM credit impairment sales and trading functions, to provide Change in expected credit losses and other 0.45% 0.12% charges challenge, appropriate oversight and credit impairment charges as a % of advances: balance in risk reward decisions.
wholesale CMB, GB&M and GPB HSBCs risk appetite defines our Our target is to achieve a reported RoTE of more than 11% by the end of 2020. desired forward-looking risk profile, Our risk management framework and risks associated with our banking and insurance manufacturing and informs the strategic and financial operations are described on pages 73 and 86, respectively.
Top and emerging risks Our top and emerging risks framework During 2018, we made five changes support our commitment to Sustainable helps enable us to identify forwardto our top and emerging risks to reflect Finance.
Thirdly, Execution risk was looking risks so that we may take our assessment of their potential effects removed following the successful action either to prevent them on the Group.
Firstly, Libor replacement completion of a number of high-priority materialising or limit their effect.
now renamed Interbank offered rate programmes.
In addition, two thematic transition or Ibor transition was risks were renamed to better reflect the Top risks are those that may have added as a new risk due to the ongoing challenges facing the Group.
The new a material impact on the financial effort by global regulators to reform names are used in the table that follows, results, reputation or business model benchmark rates and the work required which details our current 13 top and of the Group in the year ahead.
to evaluate the impact of this transition emerging risks.
Emerging risks are those that have on HSBCs products and services.
Our current top and emerging risks are large unknown components and may Secondly, Climate-related risk has also summarised on the next page and discussed form beyond a one-year horizon.
If any in more detail on page 69. been added, to help monitor and mitigate of these risks were to occur, they could Our approach to identifying and monitoring the impacts of climate change on the have a material effect on HSBC.
top and emerging risks is described on page 74.
Group and our customers, as well as 30 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk overview Risk heightened during 2018 Risk remained at the same level as 2017 Thematic risk renamed during 2018 Risk Trend Mitigants Externally driven Economic outlook We actively monitor our credit and trading portfolios, including undertaking stress tests, to identify sectors and and capital flows clients that may come under stress due to: escalating tariffs and other trade restrictions: an economic slowdown in the eurozone and mainland China: and adverse outcomes of negotiations concerning the UKs exit from the EU.
Geopolitical risk We continually assess the impact of geopolitical events on our businesses and exposures, and take steps to mitigate them, where required, to help ensure we remain within our risk appetite.
We have also strengthened physical security at our premises where the risk of terrorism is heightened.
The credit cycle We undertake detailed reviews of our portfolios and are assessing proactively customers and sectors likely to come under stress as a result of geopolitical or macroeconomic events, reducing limits where appropriate.
Cyber threat and We continue to strengthen our cyber-control framework and improve our resilience and cybersecurity capabilities, unauthorised access including threat detection and analysis, access control, payment systems controls, data protection, network to systems controls and back-up and recovery.
Regulatory developments We engage with regulators to help ensure new regulatory requirements are effectively implemented, and work with including conduct, with them in relation to their investigations into historical activities.
adverse impact on business model and profitability Financial crime risk We have integrated the majority of our Global Standards reforms into our day-to-day operations, and expect to environment complete the transition to business and function management in 2019.
We continue to enhance our financial crime risk management capabilities and we are investing in the next generation of tools to fight financial crime through the application of advanced analytics and artificial intelligence.
Ibor transition We are evaluating the impact of the replacement of Ibor including Libor with alternative risk-free rates on HSBCs products, services and processes as the industry accord evolves, with the intention of minimising disruption through appropriate mitigating actions.
Climate-related risks We are committed to helping finance the transition to a low-carbon economy and continue to make progress in this area see the Groups TCFD year-two response on page 29.
We regularly review our sustainability risk policies to ensure they remain fit-for-purpose while still supporting customers.
Internally driven IT systems infrastructure We continue to monitor and improve service resilience across our technology infrastructure, enhancing our and resilience problem diagnosis resolution and change execution capabilities to reduce service disruption to our customers.
Risks associated with We continue to monitor workforce capacity and capability requirements in line with HSBCs published growth workforce capability, capacity strategy and any emerging issues in the markets in which we operate.
These issues can include changes to and environmental factors with immigration and tax rules as well as industry-wide regulatory changes.
potential impact on growth Risks arising from the receipt We continue to strengthen essential governance processes and relevant policies relating to how we identify, of services from third parties assess, mitigate and manage risks across the range of third parties with which we do business.
This includes control monitoring and assurance throughout the third-party life cycle.
Enhanced model risk We have evolved our capability and practice for model risk management by enhancing the second line of management expectations defence Model Risk Management function, strengthening the model oversight committee structure through the chairmanship of the Group Chief Risk Officer and attendance of global business CEOs, and evolving our model risk governance framework.
Data management We continue to improve our insights, data aggregation, reporting and decisions through ongoing improvement of our data governance, data quality, data privacy, data infrastructure and architecture framework.
UK withdrawal from the European Union The UK is due to formally leave the actions to help minimise any potential a scenario set by the Bank of England to European Union EU in March 2019. disruption.
These include expanding support our planning for, and assessment However, there is no certainty on the our product offerings available in our of, the impact of the UKs withdrawal future relationship between the UK and European entities, migrating customers from the EU.
The results confirmed that the EU or indeed an implementation where necessary and transferring some we are well positioned in the event of period.
This creates market volatility and of our European branch network from potential shocks.
economic risk, particularly in the UK.
Our HSBC Bank plc to our subsidiary in For further details, please refer to our top and Groups global presence and diversified France.
Our existing footprint in the EU, emerging risks on page 69. client base should help to mitigate the and in particular our subsidiary in France, Our approach to the UKs withdrawal from the European Union is described in more detail impact of the UKs withdrawal from the has provided a strong foundation for in Areas of special interest on page 73.
While there may be some changes to us to build upon.
As part of our stress the provision of products and services for testing programme, a number of internal our clients and employees based in the macroeconomic and event-driven UK and EU, we are taking mitigating scenarios were considered alongside HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
