Risk management Risk management roles and responsibilities The Board has defined risk management roles and responsibilities as illustrated below Board Determines the Groups risk appetite and culture Sets the risk management framework Ensures the risk management processes and internal controls are effective Audit Committee Controls the Groups risk management processes Reviews business risks Gains assurance that the risk management processes and controls are effective Assurance Internal Audit Huntings internal audit department reviews internal controls and risk management processes for their existence, relevance and effectiveness.
Actions are recommended and graded in terms of importance and timeliness Central and Regional Management for change.
Establishes detailed Group policies and procedures Manages centrally-controlled risks Reviews local business risks Local Management Ensures Group policies and procedures are applied Manages locally-controlled risks 44 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Introduction Audit Committee The oil and gas industry is highly regulated and demands Local management establishes and undertakes risk high specification products that meet stringent quality management processes that are relevant to the risk profile criteria, given the challenging environments in which these of each business unit.
The key risks are reported to central products are used.
Huntings risk management and management three times a year from which a Group Risk internal control processes are therefore designed to Register is maintained covering the key risks to the Group, appropriately mitigate the operating risks inherent in this including all financial, operational and compliance matters.
sector, while allowing the Group to achieve its strategic On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee seeks to objectives and deliver value to shareholders.
ensure that risk management processes are established within the framework set out by the Board and, as part of The Board this assessment, it conducts a formal review of the The Board of Hunting has responsibility for developing and Groups Risk Register three times a year.
The Groups maintaining a robust risk management framework and for Principal Risks are disclosed on pages 49 to 52.
In monitoring the Groups system of internal control to ensure addition, once a year, the Audit Committee seeks it remains effective and fit for purpose.
The Board is also assurance with regard to the effectiveness of the internal responsible for developing the Groups strategic financial controls based on a self-assessment exercise objectives.
The balance between the Boards desire to carried out by local management.
The appropriateness of meet these strategic objectives and its appetite for risk the self assessments is checked by Internal Audit, on a creates the risk culture within the Group.
sample basis, following its programme of work.
The Boards appetite for risk is key to establishing The Internal Audit department reports directly to the effective systems of internal control and risk management Audit Committee.
The relationship with external audit is processes.
By reviewing and debating the relevant controlled by the Audit Committee, who are responsible evidence, the Board develops an appreciation for the for completing the review of the effectiveness of the contributory factors that generate a particular risk.
Subsequently, through delegation, the Board establishes the extent to which the risk should be mitigated and at Central and Regional Management what cost to the Group.
The Board, for example, has little Hunting requires that all Group business units operate in appetite for high levels of exposure to geopolitical risk accordance with the Hunting Group Manual, which sets and, consequently, the Groups expansion strategy has out Group policies and procedures, together with related avoided countries that are considered to be significantly authority levels, and identifies matters requiring approval unstable or too high risk to maintain a physical presence, or notification to central management or to the Board.
notwithstanding the potential benefits that may be Included within the Group Manual are policies covering generated.
a range of areas, including general finance requirements, taxation responsibilities, information on Huntings internal Advice on risk management is sought by the Board from control and risk management framework and governance.
both internal and external sources.
The risk management Compliance is also monitored and subject to scrutiny by processes are further supported by: the Internal Audit department.
understanding the current and evolving market Central and regional management are responsible for environment: ensuring the risk management processes established by challenging executive management on new growth the Audit Committee are implemented across the Group.
opportunities: and Central management is also responsible for managing reviewing proposed new product developments and Group-wide treasury-related risks such as currency and capital investment projects.
interest rate exposures and managing the global insurance programme.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 45 Risk management continued Local Management Hunting also receives guidance from a number of Management of each business unit has the responsibility external advisers.
In particular, guidance from the Groups of establishing an effective system of controls and principal insurance broker, which arranges worldwide processes for their business which, at a minimum, meet the credit insurance for the Group, has been implemented requirements set out in the Group Manual and complies throughout the business units with respect to, for with any additional local requirements.
Local management example, vetting new customers and maintaining is empowered under Huntings fide-centralised philosophy appropriate creditworthiness data that further strengthens to manage the risks in their market.
the Groups credit management processes.
Huntings external auditors provide assurance to the Board of the Assurance accuracy and probity of Huntings financial statements.
The Board uses a number of functions and reporting The auditors also read all of Huntings non-financial procedures to provide assurance that the risks identified statements, including governance disclosures included by management are appropriate and proportionate for in the Annual Report, and provides recommendations the Group as a whole.
Huntings Internal Audit function on the financial controls in operation across the Group, covers the Groups businesses addressing the following based on the external audit.
operational areas, raising control improvement recommendations, where necessary: Huntings legal advisers assist in ensuring that Hunting is compliant with the UKLAs Listing Rules, Disclosure inventory management: Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook and UK purchasing supply chain: Company Law, and that there is an understanding across large project risk: the Group of its obligations under current sanctions IT controls: legislation.
Additionally, Hunting relies on market and customer credit risk: and investor advice from its corporate brokers and financial ethics compliance, including bribery and corruption.
The Groups risk management processes are further The Board is satisfied that the above sources of assurance supported by an internal Quality Assurance department have sufficient authority, independence and expertise to that is headed by a HSE and Quality Assurance Director, enable them to provide objective advice and information who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
This to the Board and also takes this into account when department also undertakes periodic audits that monitor assessing the robustness of the risk management and quality control within the Groups product lines.
46 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk management procedures The Groups financial accounting consolidation process is The Board has reviewed its risk management and maintained and regularly updated, including distribution of internal control procedures and confirms that the a Group Manual to all reporting units.
All data is subject to procedures in place are robust and proportionate review and assessment by management through the to Huntings global operations and position in its monitoring of key performance ratios and comparison to chosen market.
The Group monitors and reviews new UK Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and Huntings internal control system, which has been in place Transparency Rules sourcebook, accounting standards, throughout 2018 and up to the date of approval of these interpretations and amendments, legislation and other accounts, is an ongoing evolutionary process designed to statutory requirements.
identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to which the Group is exposed.
Strategic Planning and Budgeting Strategic plans, annual budgets and long-term viability This system of internal control is designed to manage financial projections are formally presented to the Board rather than eliminate risks, therefore it can only provide for adoption and approval and form the basis for reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material monitoring performance.
These are supported by regularly misstatement or loss in the financial statements and of updated forecasts.
Quality Assurance The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Most of the business sectors in which the Group operates Groups system of internal control and have taken into are highly regulated and subsidiaries invariably require to be account feedback from the Audit Committee for the period accredited, by the customer or an industry regulator, to covered by the financial statements.
No significant failings national or international quality organisations.
These or weaknesses were identified in the review process.
organisations undertake regular audits and checks on subsidiary procedures and practices, ensuring compliance The key elements to understanding, establishing and with regulatory requirements.
The Board monitors assessing Huntings internal control system are as follows: compliance by receiving Quality Assurance reports at each meeting from the Director of Quality Assurance who Business Risk Reporting reports directly to the Chief Executive.
The Group has Three times a year, local management formally reviews the received accreditations from many organisations including specific risks faced by their businesses, based on current the American Petroleum Institute for example API Spec trading, future prospects and the local market environment.
5CT and API Spec Q1 certifications, the International The review is a qualitative assessment of the likelihood of Organization for Standardization for example ISO 9001 a risk materialising and the probable financial impact if and ISO 14001 certifications and the Occupational Health such an event were to arise.
All assessments are performed and Safety Assessment Series for example OHSAS on a preand post-controls basis, which allows management 18001 certification.
to continually assess the effectiveness of its internal controls with separate regard to mitigating the likelihood Health, Safety and Environment HSE of occurrence and the probable financial impact.
The risks All facilities have designated HSE personnel appointed to are reported to central management.
The local risks that ensure the Groups policies and procedures are adopted have the greatest potential impact on the Group are and adhered to.
All local HSE personnel report to the identified from these assessments and incorporated into Groups HSE and Quality Assurance Director, who in turn the Group Risk Register, which is also reviewed by the reports to the Chief Executive.
All facilities arrange regular Audit Committee three times a year.
An appropriate training and review sessions to ensure day-to-day risks are Director, together with local management, is allocated managed and shared with the wider workforce.
responsibility for managing each separate risk identified in the Group Risk Register.
Expenditure Assessment and Approval Limits All significant capital investment business acquisitions Financial Controls Self-assessment and asset purchases and capital divestments require Local management complete an annual self-assessment approval of the Chief Executive.
Major capital investments of the financial controls in place at their business unit.
The or divestments require approval by the Board.
Detailed assessment is qualitative and is undertaken in context with compliance and assurance procedures are completed the recommended controls identified within the Group during a capital investment programme and project reviews Manual.
Gaps between the recommended controls and and appraisals are completed to ensure each capital those in place are assessed and improvements are actioned investment has delivered the forecast value for the Group.
within a targeted time frame when these are identified as a necessary requirement.
Results of the assessments are Updates to the Groups policies and procedures are summarised and presented to the Audit Committee.
communicated to the relevant personnel by way of periodic revisions to the Group Manual, which is issued Reporting and Consolidation to all business units.
All subsidiaries submit detailed financial information in accordance with a pre-set reporting timetable.
This includes weekly, bi-monthly and quarterly treasury reports, annual budgets, monthly management accounts, periodic extended forecasts giving a medium-term view, together with half-year and annual statutory reporting.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 47 Risk management continued Current status of the Groups principal risks The status of Huntings exposure to each of its principal Movement in risks post-controls during the year risks, the movement in these risks post-controls during the year and the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in mitigating risks are summarised in the 5 2 accompanying two graphs.
3 1 The extent of Huntings exposure to any one risk may 3 increase or decrease over a period of time.
This movement is due either to a shift in the profile of the risk arising from external influences, or is due to a change in 6 4 the effectiveness of the Groups internal control processes in mitigating the risk.
6 7 A detailed description of each principal risk, the controls and actions in place and the movement in the year are given in the following section.
UK Leaving the European Union Brexit The Board has continued to consider the potential consequences to the Group of the United Kingdoms decision to withdraw from the European Union and remains of the opinion that, given its limited exposure to this market, Low Probability High Brexit will not have a material impact on the business.
Consequently, this is not a principal risk to the Group.
Current status Prior year status 1 5 Competition HSE 2 6 Commodity prices Key executives 3 Shale drilling 7 Product quality 4 Geopolitics Effectiveness of internal controls 5 5 2 2 1 3 7 1 3 4 4 6 6 7 Low Probability High Post-control status Pre-control status 48 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Low Financial Impact High Low Financial Impact High Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Principal risks No movement in risk The Groups principal risks are identified below.
While we have presented these as separately identified risks, discrete events Increase in risk will often affect multiple risks and this is considered by the Decrease in risk Board when assessing the impact on the Group.
Commodity prices Nature of the risk Nature of the risk The provision of goods and services to oil and gas drilling Hunting is exposed to the influence of oil and gas prices as the companies is highly competitive.
In current market conditions, supply and demand for energy is a key driver of demand for pricing pressures remain a feature of the current trading Huntings products.
Competitors may also be customers and or suppliers, which can increase the risk of any potential impact.
Oil and gas exploration companies may reduce or curtail operations if prices become, or are expected to become, uneconomical and Technological advancements in the oil and gas industry continue therefore continuation of prices above these levels is critical to the at pace and failure to keep ahead will result in lost revenues and industry and the financial viability of the Hunting Group.
Adverse movements in commodity prices may also heighten the Looking further ahead, advancements in alternative energy Groups exposure to the risks associated with shale drilling see the sources are considered a possible risk to the oil and gas market risks associated with shale drilling.
Movement in the year Movement in the year During the year, the competitive environment within the markets Huntings exposure to this risk has remained high during the year that Hunting serves remained strong and therefore Huntings due to the relative instability in spot oil prices.
Although they do exposure to this risk is unchanged since last year.
The improved remain volatile, prices are expected to increase over the next 12 trading environment has reduced the likelihood of price reductions months due to sustained growth in global demand.
by extant competitors, however, new competitors are entering the market with lower pricing within certain product lines.
Controls and actions Controls and actions Hunting has a number of high specification proprietary products Working capital, and in particular inventory levels, are closely that offer operational advantages to its customers.
The Group managed to ensure the Group remains sufficiently adaptable to continually invests in research and development that enables it to meet changes in demand.
provide technological advancement and a strong, ever widening, product offering.
Hunting continues to maintain its standards of The Groups products are used throughout the life cycle of the delivering high quality products, which has gone some way in wellbore and each phase within the life cycle generates demand sheltering the pricing pressure impact on margins.
for a different range of products and services.
The Board and management closely monitor market reports on current and Huntings operations are established close to their markets, forecast activity levels associated with the various phases of the life which enables the Group to offer reduced lead times and cycle of the wellbore in order to plan for and predict improvements a focused product range appropriate to each region.
Local or declines in activity levels.
management maintains an awareness of competitor pricing and product offering.
In addition, senior management maintains In addition, management has reduced production costs and close relationships with key customers and seeks to maintain developed new technologies that would help mitigate the impact the highest level of service to preserve Huntings reputation for of any further downturn in commodity prices in the future.
The Group has a wide customer base that includes many of the major oil and gas service providers and no one customer represents an overly significant portion of Group revenue.
Alternative energy sources have been considered but are not believed to be a threat within the short term.
The Groups operating activities are described in detail Further information on the movement in commodity prices on pages 35 to 39. during the year is detailed on page 8.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 49 Risk management continued Principal risks No movement in risk The Groups principal risks are identified below.
Geopolitics Nature of the risk Nature of the risk The Group provides products to the oil and gas shale drilling The location of the Groups markets are determined by the location industry.
Although shale drilling is now an established activity of Huntings customers drill sites Huntings products must go in the US, significant sections of the public continue to view where the drilling companies choose to operate.
To compete it as high risk.
Any consequent moratorium or new laws may effectively, Hunting often establishes a local operation in those unfavourably impact shale drilling activity levels and subsequently regions, however, significantly volatile environments are avoided.
reduce demand for the Groups products that service the operators in this industry.
In addition, oil and gas produced from The Board has a strategy to develop its global presence and shale remains a relatively expensive source of hydrocarbons, diversify geographically.
despite recent advances in technology that have reduced these costs.
Consequently, shale drilling is more sensitive to a decline Operations have been established in key geographic regions around in commodity prices compared with conventional sources so it is the world, recognising the high growth potential these territories more likely to be curtailed and therefore negatively impact what offer.
The Group carefully selects which countries to operate from, has become a steadily increasing revenue stream for the Group taking into account the differing economic and geopolitical risks see the risks associated with commodity prices.
associated with each geographic territory.
Movement in the year Movement in the year Huntings exposure to this risk has reduced from last year due Geopolitical issues remain a feature of the modern world in which to the continued drive in completion activity within the US shale the Hunting Group operates.
The Board monitors geopolitical basins and the more stable oil price.
events around the world through media channels and assesses these relative to Huntings operations.
The Group has relatively little exposure to the European market and consequently the Board believes that the economic uncertainties associated with Brexit will not have a material adverse impact on the Groups trading activities.
Consequently, the Board has concluded that there has been no reportable movement in the Groups geopolitical risk.
Controls and actions Controls and actions The Board monitors public and political opinion and maintains an Areas exposed to high political risk are noted by the Board and are awareness of the potential for changes to legislation, especially strategically avoided.
Management and the Board closely monitor with regard to the US where the Group is mainly exposed.
projected economic trends in order to match capacity to regional demand.
The Group maintains a diverse portfolio of products that extends beyond supplying the shale drilling industry, including products for conventional drilling and the manufacture of high-precision and advanced technology components for both the onshore and offshore markets.
Many of the Groups facilities have the flexibility to reconfigure their manufacturing processes to meet a change in the pattern of demand.
The Groups operating activities are described in detail The Groups exposure to different geographic regions is described on pages 35 to 39. on page 2.
50 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 5.
Health, safety and the environment HSE 6.
Key executives Nature of the risk Nature of the risk Due to the wide nature of the Groups activities, it is subject to a The Group is highly reliant on the continued service of its key relatively high number of HSE risks and the laws and regulations executives and senior management, who possess commercial, issued by each of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
engineering, technical and financial skills that are critical to the success of the Group.
The Groups exposure to risk therefore includes the potential for the occurrence of a reportable incident, the financial risk of a breach of HSE regulations, and the risk of unexpected compliance expenditure whenever a law or regulation is renewed or enhanced.
Movement in the year Movement in the year The Groups manufacturing and other operating processes This risk has decreased from last year due to the improving results have not materially changed during the year.
Consequently, the of the Group, which has enabled the Company to end the GroupGroups potential exposure to HSE incidents remains materially wide pay freeze programme and to procure new incentives for key unchanged.
The Group experienced a number of minor HSE employees to remain with the Group.
incidents in the year, which is significantly below the industry average and is similar to the Groups record in prior years.
Controls and actions Controls and actions The Board targets to achieve a record of nil incidents and full Remuneration packages are regularly reviewed to ensure that key compliance with the laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in executives are remunerated in line with market rates.
External which the Group operates.
consultants are engaged to provide guidance on best practice.
Every Group facility is overseen by a health and safety officer with Senior management regularly reviews the availability of the the responsibility for ensuring compliance with current and newly necessary skills within the Group and seeks to engage suitable staff issued HSE standards.
where they feel there is vulnerability.
The Board receives a Group HSE compliance report at every Board meeting.
The Groups HSE performance is detailed on page 36.
Details of executive Director remuneration are provided in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 68 to 85.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 51 Risk management continued Principal risks No movement in risk The Groups principal risks are identified below.
Product quality Nature of the risk The Group has an established reputation for producing high quality products capable of withstanding the hostile and corrosive environments encountered in the wellbore.
A failure of any one of these products could adversely impact the Groups reputation and demand for the Groups entire range of products and services.
Movement in the year The risk of poor product quality or reliability has remained unchanged during the year with no significant issues raised by the Groups customers or during the Boards internal monitoring process.
Controls and actions Quality assurance standards are monitored, measured and regulated within the Group under the authority of a Quality Assurance Director, who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
The Groups commitment to product quality is detailed on page 36.
52 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Viability Assessment and Going Concern Basis Viability Assessment The Group will continue to have a medium to low Hunting has a wide, global customer base underpinned exposure to higher risk countries given the proportion by strong, long-term relationships.
The Group provides of its current revenues and profits derived from stable a large range of products and services through its regions such as North America, Europe and South manufacturing and distribution facilities, which are located East Asia.
in a number of countries across the globe.
In addition, the three-year financial projections were stress In considering the Groups long-term viability, the Board tested to simulate a further deterioration in market conditions.
regularly assesses the risks to its business model, strategy, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
These Conclusion assessments are supported by the risk management The Board believes that the Groups strategy for growth, processes described on pages 44 and 47 and include a its diverse customer and product base, and the improving review of the Groups exposure to the oil and gas industry, outlook for the oil and gas industry in the medium term competitor action, customer plans and the robustness of provide Hunting with a strong platform on which to the supply chain.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that Hunting will be able to Assessment Period continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall The Groups customers are principally involved in the due over the three-year period of their assessment.
exploration for and production of oil and gas.
Given the nature of the industry and the planning cycles involved, Going Concern Basis these activities can cover periods of no more than several The Groups principal cash outflows include capital weeks up to several years from start to end.
Huntings investment, labour costs and inventory purchases.
The management works closely with its customers over this timing and extent of these cash flows are controlled by period, discussing their operational plans and reviewing local management and the Board.
The Groups principal their longer-term capital expenditure programmes.
The cash inflows are generated from the sale of its products outlook for the Group beyond this period is generated and services, the level of which is dependent on the from managements assessment of industrial data and overall market conditions, the variety of its products and projections published by industry commentators and ability to retain strong customer relationships.
Cash analysts, including statistics on exploration and production inflows are further supported by the Groups credit expenditure, footage drilled and rig activity.
The Board insurance cover against customer default that, at believes that a three-year forward-looking period, 31 December 2018, covered the majority of its trade commencing on the date the annual accounts are receivables, subject to certain limits.
Current and forecast approved by the Board, is the appropriate length of time cash debt balances are reported on a weekly basis by to reasonably assess the Groups viability.
The Groups each of the business units to a centralised treasury function annual budget process and mid-term projections cover that uses the information to manage the Groups day-tothis period and help to support the Boards assessment.
day liquidity and longer-term funding needs.
Consideration of Principal Risks The Group continues to have access to sufficient financial The nature of the Groups operations expose the business resources including the $160m secured committed bank to a variety of risks, which are noted on pages 48 to 52. borrowing facility which was undrawn at 31 December The Board regularly reviews the principal risks and 2018.
The Groups internal financial projections indicate assesses the appropriate controls and further actions as that the Group will retain sufficient liquidity to meet its described on pages 44 and 45, given the Boards appetite funding requirements over the next 12 months.
for risk as disclosed on page 45.
The Board has further considered their potential impact within the context of the Review In conducting its review of the Groups ability to remain as Groups viability.
a going concern, the Board assessed the Groups recent trading performance and its latest forecasts and took Assumptions account of reasonably predictable changes in future In assessing the long-term viability of the Group, the trading performance.
The Board also considered the Board made the following assumptions: potential financial impact of the estimates, judgements and assumptions that were used to prepare these financial Demand for energy service products continues to statements.
The Board is satisfied that no material improve in the medium to long term, given the global uncertainties have been identified.
outlook for oil and gas demand, which is driven by growth within emerging markets and sustained Conclusion demand from developed markets.
These are the The Board is satisfied that it has conducted a robust fundamental drivers of Huntings core business of review of the Groups going concern and has a high level manufacturing, supplying and distributing products and of confidence that the Group has the necessary liquid services that enable the extraction of oil and gas.
resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Groups reduced cost base enables the business Consequently, the Board considered it appropriate to to remain competitive within the weaker sectors of the adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing global energy markets, particularly within the offshore these consolidated financial statements.
North American onshore well completion activity levels, particularly those requiring Hunting perforating systems, continue to improve.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 53
