Principal risks and uncertainties The Board is assisted in discharging this responsibility through The Board is responsible for its Audit Committee: whose role includes review of the Groups internal control and risk management system.
The report of the determining the nature and Audit Committee can be found on pages 75 to 80, whilst details of the Groups system of internal controls can be found in the extent of the principal risks Corporate Governance statement on page 60.
The principal risks are broadly categorised as strategic, operational it is willing to take in achieving or financial in nature.
Strategic risks arise from decisions taken by the Board and management concerning the Groups strategy and its strategic objectives.
concern the positioning of the Group within the business products market.
Operational risks result from the failure of internal processes and controls or external events.
Financial risks arise from movements within the financial markets in which the Group operates or the inefficient movement of the Groups capital resources.
During 2018, KPMG were engaged by the Group to undertake a detailed review of the Groups risk management approach, as discussed on pages 73 and 74.
Following conclusion of the review, KPMG were re-engaged to support the Group in implementing the suggested enhancements to the risk approach.
Significant progress has been made during autumn 2018 and the beginning of 2019, including completion of a risk aggregation exercise between the operational risks identified and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
The principal risks discussed below, separately or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
There have been no changes in the risks disclosed in the current year.
The principal risks are set out together with: A description of the risk and its potential impact: Examples of current controls and mitigation the Group has in place: An indication of direction of travel of the risk exposure: and An indication of the link to the Groups strategy, as set out on page 22.
Mapping risk to our strategy Our principal risks and uncertainties Economic conditions Government action and policy Government regulation and standards Customer relationships and reputation Operational disruption Recruitment and retention of key personnel Input prices Product quality Financial risk management Pension obligations Cyber security 42 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Sustainable performance Market led innovation Selective growth Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Risk management framework The Board maintained its ultimate responsibility for the Groups To effectively manage risk, operational level controls are embedded control monitoring and provided direction to management in across the Group and form a key part of day to day processes.
its assessment of Group-wide risk.
During 2018, a key component of the Directors assessment of the risk was managements review of the risk matrices prepared by each subsidiary entity.
Following the formation of the Groups Executive Leadership Team, this body will perform a further review role in 2019 and beyond.
Board Ultimate responsibility Audit Committee Review effectiveness Reporting Executive Leadership Team Oversight, and escalation direction and governance Concrete Brick Support functions Operational level controls Day to day activities to identify and manage risk Managing risk The heatmap illustrates the Directors assessment of the residual The Group uses a heatmap to provide a visual, holistic view risk following the mitigating actions to reduce risks through the of the risk environment and assist in the management of risks.
internal control actions established by the Group.
2 7 1 3 Residual risk 10 5 9 6 1 Economic conditions 2 Government action and policy 8 11 4 3 Government regulation and standards 4 Customer relationships and reputation 5 Business disruption 6 Recruitment and retention of key personnel 7 Input prices Low Significant Major Critical Catastrophic 8 Product quality 9 Financial risk management 1 0 Pension obligations 1 1 Cyber security Impact 43 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Rare Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Likelihood Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks and Brexit 1.
Government action and policy The uncertain outcome of negotiations following the UKs Referendum on EU membership in June 2016 has introduced a degree of uncertainty which could give rise to longer-term macroeconomic changes Risk 1.
As noted within our Principal risks The Groups business could be materially The Group has an exposure to UK political and uncertainties disclosure, negative impacted by changes in the macroeconomic developments.
Material reductions in macroeconomic changes could reduce environment in the UK.
Specifically, demand Government spending, or changes in demand for the Groups products.
for the Groups products is strongly correlated Government policy relating to housebuilding, with residential construction and renovation could have a material effect on demand for Overall, the Directors believe the Group activities and non-residential construction, the Groups products reducing sales and has limited exposure as a result of Brexit, together with the supply chains attitude affecting the Groups financial results.
but recognise that the potential impacts to stock levels, which are cyclical.
could reach further and impact several Should negative impacts on economic of the principal risks identified by the Group.
Link to strategy conditions arise as a result of the UKs decision As a result, shortly after the UK Referendum 1 3 to leave the EU, this could include a reduction result, the Group established a Brexit in housing demand, or reduced mortgage Committee and as part of its remit, availability or affordability.
Such consequences contingency plans have been developed would likely reduce demand for the Groups products.
in order to mitigate risks arising from the interaction of Brexit and our Principal risks and uncertainties.
During 2019, the Groups Link to strategy operating companies have monitored the 1 2 3 development of Brexit and further developed these contingency plans.
The Groups sales are predominantly to UK based customers and the majority of the Groups supplies are sourced from within the UK Risk 7.
Where suppliers are based overseas, or the goods we purchase Mitigation Mitigation from UK suppliers have themselves some component sourced from outside the UK, The Group analyses construction statistics The Group analyses construction statistics we have contacted the suppliers to discuss for the past five years and, using independent for the past five years and, using independent their plans following Brexit.
forecasts of construction statistics, forecasts forecasts of construction statistics, forecasts future demand with the aim of anticipating demand for the next five years with the aim As a result, some suppliers have agreed to market movements.
lay-down additional stock in the UK whilst other suppliers have provided reassurances The Group has historically flexed capacity and The major political parties each included that they will ensure continuity of supply.
its cost base where possible during economic favourable housing policies within their most downturns to allow more of the Groups recent Election manifestos.
This positive policy The Directors believe this action has manufacturing plants to remain open and environment has been further supported by considered both our supplies and the risk viable, maintaining skills, development and announcements following the election of border traffic congestion, should any arise.
The Group believes that this including: the announcement of new financial maintained employee morale and high levels support for house building: the new Help to We have also liaised with our primary of customer service through the last economic Buy Equity loan scheme which will run from haulage providers to ensure they have downturn.
It also allows the Group to respond April 2021: the abolition of stamp duty on suitable contingency plans in place, which will more rapidly to increases in demand and keep homes under 300,000 for first time buyers: help maintain our high standards of customer customers satisfied.
and government investment in teaching service in the event of wider transport construction skills such as bricklaying The Groups RMI and specification product all announced in the Autumn Statement 2017 disruption issues Risks 4 and 5. ranges diversify end-use exposure and provide or Budget 2018.
These measures, in addition greater resilience in light of changing market The vast majority of the Groups employees to the existing National Planning Policy demand in any of its end-use markets.
are UK citizens, which reduces the risk of Framework NPPF and Help to Buy scheme, shortages of labour as a result of Brexit, Our responses to possible Brexit implications show the Governments ongoing commitment are noted within the Principal risks and to house building.
However, the Group although we continue to focus on employee Brexit summary.
recognises the risk which can result from engagement to retain our workforce Risk 6. political changes or economic uncertainty.
RMI and new housing demands are, to a certain extent, counter-cyclical to each other, providing some balance to the portfolio of offerings for the Group.
Movement of risk Increase Decrease No change 44 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Strategy key 1 Sustainable performance 2 Market led innovation 3 Selective growth 3.
Operational disruption standards relating to the and reputation manufacture and use of building products The Groups production, manufacturing The Group receives a significant portion of A material disruption at one of the Groups and distribution activities are subject to Health its revenue from key customers and the loss of manufacturing facilities or quarries, or at one and Safety risks.
The Group is subject to any such customer through our failure to evolve of the Groups suppliers facilities, could prevent environmental, health and safety laws and effectively and meet the changing needs of our the Group from meeting customer demand.
regulations and these may change.
These laws customers could result in a significant loss of The Group depends on efficient and and regulations could cause the Group to make revenue and cash flow.
uninterrupted operations of its information and modifications to how it manufactures and Further, the Group does not have long-term communication technology, and any disruption prices its products.
contracts with its customers and the Groups to or interruptions in these operations could The impact of climate change and revenue could be reduced if its customers have a material adverse effect on the Groups Governments response to this could also lead switch some or all of their business with the operations and financial performance.
to changes to laws and regulations that could Group to other suppliers or if we are unable to Additionally, the Group is exposed to the require that the Group make significant capital leverage our customer relationships effectively.
impact of unexpected or prolonged periods investments or otherwise increase its costs of bad weather, which could adversely affect Link to strategy or could result in liabilities.
construction activity and, as a result, demand 1 2 Failure of the Group to comply with the for the Groups products.
relevant regulations could result in the Group Link to strategy being liable to fines or a suspension of operations, which would impact the Groups 1 2 financial results, together with any associated negative reputational damage.
Link to strategy 1 2 Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation The health and wellbeing of our employees is The Group has a service-led ethos with The Group has the ability to transfer some fundamental to our business.
We have stringent many top customer relationships lasting of its production across its network of plants Health and Safety policies and monitor over 40 years.
The Groups customer focus and is able to engage subcontractors to reduce compliance regularly through internal and is supported by a commitment to quality, the impact of certain production disruptions.
In relation to supplier disruption or failure, We have also invested considerable resources The Groups sales and production teams are further third party suppliers have been in employee training across our manufacturing highly integrated to ensure that production identified who can maintain service in the event processes.
We have invested heavily in safe aligns with customers needs.
In relation to IT, a major incident systems and facilities to protect our employees.
receive in-depth technical training and are action plan has been developed and the Group assisted by a design support service team as maintains data backups and a comprehensive We recognise the importance of being a well as targeted marketing materials to assist disaster recovery plan covering Group and sustainable business and that climate change with specification and selection.
affects natural and economic systems, and recognise their implications in all we do.
The Groups businesses each have their own Management do not underestimate the sales teams aligned by customer group and potential impact that future prolonged periods The Group has a proven record of investment region in order to focus on key decision makers of bad weather could have.
in the latest systems, plant, machinery and and customers.
Key account management is technology and we continue to address the Weather conditions are beyond the Groups supervised at a senior level where long-term need for enabling conditions to address climate control, although historically adverse weather relationships benefit from the continuity of change concerns through the development has not impacted trading in the context of senior management who have the ability of our Sustainability Roadmap 2025. any full year.
to liaise across the Groups businesses.
The Group currently complies with existing The Groups wide geographical spread The Group has a broad spread of customers legislative requirements and actively monitors mitigates this risk to some extent and allows and no single customer comprises more for any legislative changes with which it may it to manage its production facilities to mitigate than 10% of the total Group revenue.
the impact of such disruption.
45 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 6.
Product quality of key personnel The Group is dependent on qualified personnel The Groups business may be affected by The nature of the Groups business may expose in key positions and employees having special volatility in extraction expenses and raw it to warranty claims and to claims for product technical knowledge and skills.
Any loss of such material costs.
Risks exist around our ability to liability, construction defects, project delay, personnel without timely replacement could pass on increased costs through price increases property damage, personal injury and significantly disrupt business operations.
The Groups business may also be affected Any damage to the Groups brands, including Link to strategy by volatility in energy costs or disruptions through actual or alleged issues with its 1 3 in energy supplies.
products, could harm our business, reputation and the Groups financial results.
Significant changes in the cost or availability of transportation could affect the Groups results.
Link to strategy 1 2 3 Link to strategy 1 3 Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation We ensure that we recognise the changing Significant input costs are under constant The Group operates comprehensive quality labour markets, and packages for key and senior review, with continuous monitoring of raw control procedures across its sites with both staff remain competitive.
material costs, energy prices and haulage internal and external audit reviews of product expenses, with the aim of achieving the best quality completed to ensure conformance The Group believes that it is essential to possible prices and assuring stability of supply.
protect and develop the management team, With regards to possible energy shortages, where appropriate, ensuring that the team is All accredited staff undergo rigorous training the Group operates a hedging strategy to structured in a way which best takes advantage programmes on quality and the Groups mitigate the impact of sudden price increases.
of the available skills and robustly identifies the Technical teams carry out regular testing team and structure for the future.
Extensive As competitors of the Group are likely of all of our products to provide full technical succession plans are in place, which is key to experience similar levels of input price data on our product range.
to ensuring a managed transfer of roles increases, we aim to have appropriate pricing and responsibilities.
policies to remain competitive within our markets and pass on significant increases Apprenticeship schemes are in operation with in input costs.
a yearly intake across the business engineering and technical based.
High potential individuals are identified with development plans formulated.
External recruits are brought in where any skill gaps are identified and to enhance the talent pool.
46 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Strategy key 1 Sustainable performance 2 Market led innovation 3 Selective growth 9.
Cyber security In addition to the input cost risks outlined The Group has obligations to its employees High-profile attacks on companies across a above, the Group is subject to the following relating to retirement and other obligations number of industry sectors including one of other financial risks: and any changes in assumptions or in interest our own major customers have highlighted the rate levels could have adverse effects on its damage that can now be caused by hackers and Foreign exchange risk: As the Group financial position.
As a result, and as the Group transacts in currencies other than Sterling, continues to evolve, operational risks such exchange rate fluctuations may adversely Link to strategy as cyber security risk have increased in focus.
1 2 Such IT security risks have the ability to Credit risk: Through its customers, the significantly disrupt the Groups business, Group is exposed to a counterparty risk resulting in financial loss.
that accounts receivable will not be settled leading to a financial loss to the Group.
Link to strategy 1 2 Liquidity risk: Insufficient funds could result in the Group being unable to fund its operations.
Interest rate risk: Movements in interest rates could adversely impact the Group and result in higher financing payments to service debt.
Link to strategy 1 3 Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Foreign exchange risk: The Group The Company plays an active role in the The Group does not operate in a high-risk undertakes limited foreign exchange pension scheme nominating up to half of the sector, yet the Group is committed to ensure transactions selling domestically with largely Trustees and the Group Chief Financial Officer that its network, applications and data local input costs.
Some capex requires attends and chairs Trustee meetings.
foreign exchange purchases and The Ibstock defined benefit scheme was closed During the past two years, the Group management considers foreign exchange to future accrual in February 2017 following has completed a review using an external hedging strategies where significant consultation with members.
The Pension cyber security programme framework, exposures may arise.
Trustees and their external advisers, as well which provides coverage across the key Credit risk: Customer credit risk is managed as the internal pensions team, have significant areas of cyber security and aligns with industry by each subsidiary subject to the Groups expertise in the area and provide oversight.
This has culminated in the Groups policy relating to customer credit risk Following the closure, our agreed Statement achievement of the UK Governments Cyber management.
The Group principally of Investment Principles, which is operated to Essentials accreditation.
manages credit risk through management provide appropriate security and achieve an of customer credit limits.
The credit limits appropriate balance between risk and return, are set for each customer based on the was subject to review and an updated policy creditworthiness of the customer and has been developed to ensure that investments the anticipated levels of business activity.
follow a reducing risk profile in light of the These limits are initially determined when scheme changes.
the customer account is first set up and are regularly monitored thereafter.
Liquidity risk: The Groups policy is to ensure that it has sufficient funding and facilities in place to meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing requirements and liabilities when they become due.
At 31 December 2018, the Group holds banking facilities of 213 million, as set out in Note 19 of the Group financial statements.
Interest rate risk: The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
The Groups bank borrowings, other facilities and deposits are in Sterling and at floating rates.
No interest rate derivative contracts have been entered into during the year or at the year end.
47 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
