Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT Appropriate level: Risk management activities should be appropriate for Effective risk management is essential to the achievement the level and complexity of the of the Groups strategy and business objectives, and to Groups business activities and preserve its financial strength and resilience.
The Board is associated risks responsible for ensuring that the Group maintains an Continual assessment: Risk management should be subject to appropriate risk management culture, supported by a continual review and enhancement to robust Risk Management Framework.
ensure that the Groups Risk Management Framework remains effective and aligned to shareholder and stakeholder expectations The Groups culture is defined by the RISK MANAGEMENT shared values, attitudes, competencies FRAMEWORK RISK TAXONOMY and behaviours present throughout the IG has an established Risk Management business.
A poor culture will inevitably IG has developed a Risk Taxonomy Framework to identify, measure, lead to an increase in certain areas of risk.
to ensure that the Group considers manage and monitor the risks faced by the full spectrum of risks faced by the the business, and to manage the risk The Group seeks to achieve the business, and to create a consensus for that the Groups conduct may pose implementation of its desired risk classification of all risk management to the achievement of fair outcomes management culture through principles, activities.
The taxonomy categorises for consumers or to the sound, stable, policies and consistent practices.
the principal risks faced by the Group resilient and transparent operation of into five areas: the risks inherent in the financial markets.
This framework The IG Risk Management Framework is the regulatory environment, the risks provides the Board with assurance that driven by a set of core principles that set inherent in the commercial environment, IGs risks, including the risks relating to the context for risk management activities business model risk, operational risk the achievement of Groups strategic across the Group: and conduct risk.
Each of these risk objectives, are understood and managed areas is considered from page 34.
Strategic: Risk management should in accordance with the appetite and be clearly focused on enhancing tolerance levels set.
It provides the RISK APPETITE STATEMENT shareholder value and supporting the basis for enabling the Groups ongoing achievement of the Groups strategic The purpose of the Risk Appetite assessment, control, monitoring and objectives Statement RAS is to detail the reporting of risk management.
acceptable levels of risk that the Group Stakeholder expectations: The is willing to accept, or be exposed approach to risk management should The framework is established to, so as to allow for a profitable address the requirements and around the following elements: business, while avoiding loss outside expectations of the Groups key Risk Culture and Principles of appetite.
The RAS ascertains the stakeholders including clients, Risk Taxonomy necessary monitoring requirements employees and regulators and quantifies risk limits within which Risk Appetite Statement Consistent and embedded: Risk the business wishes to operate.
management should be fully Risk Management Governance embedded into all departments and Risk Assessment, Control, Monitoring The RAS is based around a set of business processes of the Group and and Reporting statements for each risk within the managed as an integral part of Taxonomy.
Qualitative statements of risk day-to-day management.
A consistent RISK CULTURE AND PRINCIPLES appetite for each risk are supported by approach should be taken and Key Risk Indicators KRIs that are used to The Board recognises that embedding a consistent practices followed by identify instances which require sound risk culture is fundamental to the employees globally investigation and escalation.
KRIs are effective operation of the Groups risk Independent oversight: Risk and embedded in IGs risk monitoring and management framework, and sets the control oversight functions should be reporting.
A breach of a defined tone for broader conduct in all business independent of business functions tolerance triggers an escalation which activities and for promoting a common and supported by adequate resources may result in appropriate responsive set of IG values and expected behaviours.
actions, aimed at keeping the Group within risk appetite.
32 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE implications of those elements of the Third line of defence policies on risk and risk management.
The Groups Risk Management Governance The third line of defence, independent The Committee reviews the design Structure is summarised below.
assurance, is provided by Internal Audit.
and operation of performance-related The primary role of Internal Audit is to help pay schemes to ensure their efficacy The Board the Board and executive management and, with the assistance of the Board toprotect the assets, reputation and The Board has overall responsibility Risk Committee, to ensure that the sustainability of the organisation by for the management of risk within the risks implicit within the schemes are providing independent, objective Group.
This includes determining the adequately monitored and controlled.
assurance reviews designed to add value Groups risk appetite, which sets out and improve our operations.
The scope of the nature and extent of the principal Risk management within the business the annual audit plan includes reviews of risks it is willing to take in achieving its the Groups Risk Management Framework The Group has a number of operational objectives, and defining the standards and the management of the Groups and executive committees which provide and expectations that drive the Groups principal risks.
These will include advice and support to management in risk culture.
It also involves ensuring that the day-to-day execution and proper assessments of the design and operating the Group maintains an appropriate and performance of their duties, including effectiveness of the internal governance effective Risk Management Framework, those relating to implementation of structures and processes, the setting of and monitoring performance and risk the Board strategy and management and adherence to risk appetite and the risk indicators to ensure that the Group of the Risk Management Framework.
and control culture of the organisation.
remains within its risk appetite.
The Details of this can be found in the Board delegates certain risk governance Overview of Corporate Governance RISK ASSESSMENT, MONITORING, responsibilities to Board Committees.
Framework set out on page 47.
CONTROL AND REPORTING Board Risk Committee Risk assessment, control and monitoring IG operates a three lines of defence are the responsibility of operational The Board Risk Committee provides the RiskGovernance Model.
Risk control principal forum for the ongoing review assessments are undertaken with support and evaluation of specific elements First line of defence from the second and third lines of of the Risk Management Framework The first line of defence has primary defence, and key controls are identified and for making recommendations to responsibility for risk management, and documented.
Details including the day-to-day responsibility of the Committee can be found in for ensuring that the business operates The Risk Taxonomy is used to the Board Risk Committee section within risk appetite.
Management identify all risks faced by IG.
The Risk set out on pages 88 and 89. is responsible for the identification, Appetite Statement identifies KRIs assessment and management of risks and thresholds to monitor each risk.
Audit Committee facing the business, in compliance with These KRIs are the basis of reporting The Audit Committees responsibilities the Groups risk management policies.
and are conveyed to the Board on a include reviewing an assessment monthly basis, or escalated immediately of the control environment through Second line of defence depending on significance.
Additional, Internal Audit reports and monitoring more granular, metrics are also The second line of defence, with an progress on implementation of audit reported to the relevant operational objective of independent risk oversight, recommendations.
The Audit Committee Committees where appropriate.
is provided by the risk and compliance also has specific responsibilities to Breaches of KRIs are raised at the teams.
The risk and compliance teams assess the accuracy and appropriateness relevant management level, and with are housed within a single control of financial reporting and narrative key stakeholders.
Where appropriate, pillar, led by the Chief Risk Officer.
disclosures, to review the Groups mitigating actions are considered.
These teams are independent from tax risk management framework, operational management in the first and to receive reports on legal entity Risk reporting is undertaken with multiple line and are responsible for overseeing governance and the control environment reports, covering key market, credit, and challenging the business in for client money and assets.
liquidity, capital adequacy and operational managing its risks day-to-day.
Frequency of reporting can includes maintaining the Groups risk Remuneration Committee range from live to hourly, monthly, management and control policies, The Remuneration Committees quarterly or annually, depending on the providing independent analysis, control primary responsibility in relation to requirements.
Dashboards, emails and of the Groups risks and keeping abreast risk management is to ensure that written reports, along with automated of industry and regulatory developments remuneration policies are consistent alerts, are utilised to notify relevant that might require enhancements to the with effective risk management stakeholders of the risk profile status.
across the Group, and to consider the IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS TAXONOMY LEVEL 1 TAXONOMY LEVEL 2 REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT RISK Regulatory change The risk that the regulatory environment in any of the jurisdictions in which the Group currently Expansion risk operates, or may wish to operate, changes in a way that has an adverse effect on the Groups Tax risk business or operations, through reduction in revenue, increases in costs, or increases in capital and liquidity requirements.
COMMERCIAL RISK Strategic management risk The risk that the Groups performance is affected by a prolonged period of adverse market Market conditions risk conditions, failure to adopt or implement an effective business strategy, new or existing Competitor risk competitors offering more attractive products or services, or as a result of a third-party supplier on Supplier dependency risk which the Group depends deciding to cease providing services to the business.
BUSINESS MODEL RISK Market risk The risk faced by the Group arising from the nature of its business and its business model.
Credit risk Liquidity risk Capital adequacy risk Technology risk OPERATIONAL RISK People risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or external Process risk events.
Includes the risk that the Group is unable to attract and retain the staff it requires to operate External risk its business successfully.
Client outcomes CONDUCT RISK Markets and financial crime The risk that the Groups conduct poses to the achievement of fair outcomes for consumers or to Employee behaviour the sound, stable, resilient and transparent operation of the financial markets.
PRINCIPAL RISKS relationship with its key regulators and an business strategy, by new or existing active dialogue with them to keep abreast competitors offering more attractive IG has adopted a common risk taxonomy of impending regulatory developments.
products or services, or as a result of that breaks the principal risks faced by a third-party supplier on which the the Group into five broad risk categories: IG recognises the potential for expansion Group depends deciding to cease the risks inherent in the regulatory risk.
This is defined as the risk that policy providing services to the business.
environment, the risks inherent in the or regulations in jurisdictions in which commercial environment, business model the Group does not currently operate, The Group seeks to mitigate its strategic risks, operational risk and conduct risk.
or relating to products or services that management risk through the Boards The major risks identified within each the Group does not currently offer, regular and thorough review and of these categories are summarised in are too onerous to allow the Group to challenge of the Groups strategy and the table above, and the paragraphs compete effectively in new markets.
the performance of current strategic that follow provide an overview of initiatives.
The Board holds an annual how IG seeks to manage them.
Within regulatory environment risk, the Strategy Day to consider and agree Group also includes the risk of significant the strategic priorities for the business.
Regulatory environment risk adverse changes in the manner in which The Board also considers specific IG operates in a highly regulated the Group itself, or the Groups business, strategic actions and initiatives during environment which is continually evolving.
Examples of the tax risk faced its normal schedule of Board meetings.
by the business include the risk of the The Group faces the risk of regulators imposition of a financial transactions The Group operates in a highly introducing new regulations or tax, which could severely impact the competitive environment, which requirements, in any of the jurisdictions economics of trading, and the risk that includes some unregulated and in which the Group currently operates, the basis under which the Group is illegal operators.
The Group seeks to which result in an adverse effect on taxed, in any of the jurisdictions in which mitigate competitor risk by maintaining the Groups business or operations, it operates, is adversely affected.
a clear distinction in the market in through reduction in revenue, terms of product, service and ethics, increases in costs or increases in Commercial risk and by closely monitoring the activity capital and liquidity requirements.
and performance of its competitors, The Group defines commercial risk as including detailed comparison of the risk that the Groups performance The Group operates to the highest the terms of product offers.
is affected by a prolonged period of regulatory standards and leads the adverse market conditions, failure industry in the way in which it deals with to adopt or implement an effective its clients.
The Group maintains a strong 34 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info IG regards itself as the leader in its The Group performs regular reviews occurs when a price changes suddenly market, and given its strong ethical and seeks to ensure that it has suitable in a single large movement, often at values, the Group does not deploy engagement terms with each provider, the opening of a trading day, rather questionable practices that can be so as to identify any issues which may than in small incremental steps.
This commercially attractive to clients.
The arise and gain an understanding of can result in the Group being unable to Group does, however, seek to ensure that any new upcoming requirements.
adjust its hedging in a timely manner, its product offering remains attractive, which can result in a potential loss.
taking into account the other benefits Business model risk that the Group offers its clients, including The Group monitors its market risk IG defines business model risk as the brand, strength of technology and client exposures through regular scenariorisksfaced by the Group arising from the service quality.
This allows the business based stress tests to analyse the impact nature of its business and its business to provide a competitive offering overall of potential stress and market gap events, model, including market risk, credit risk, and manage competitor risk without and takes appropriate action to reduce its liquidity risk and capital adequacy risk.
risk exposures and those of its clients.
Market risk The Groups trading revenue reflects the Credit risk IG takes market risk for the purpose of transaction fees paid by clients less the IG faces the risk that either a client or facilitating instant execution of client transaction costs incurred in hedging afinancial counterparty fails to meet trades.
The business manages this market market exposures.
The extent of client theirobligations to IG, resulting in a risk by internalising client flow allowing trading activity and the number of financial loss.
clients trades to offset each other and activeclients in any period are the key hedging when the residual exposures determinants of revenue in that period.
As a result of offering leveraged trading reach defined limits.
The Groups realThe ability to attract new clients, and the products, IG accepts that client credit time market position-monitoring system willingness of clients to trade, depends on losses can arise as a cost of its business allows it to constantly manage its market the level of opportunities clients perceive model.
Client credit risk principally arises exposures against its market risk limits.
to be available to them in the markets.
when a clients total funds deposited If exposures exceed pre-determined TheGroups revenue is therefore partly with the Group are insufficient to cover limits, hedging is undertaken to bring dependent upon market conditions.
In addition, the exposure back within the limits.
a small number of clients are granted The Group seeks to mitigate the impact credit limits to cover running losses on IG has a market risk policy which sets of adverse market conditions risk open trades and margin requirements.
out how the business manages its through detailed review of daily revenue market risk exposures.
The market risk analysis, monthly financial information, Client credit risk is managed through the policy incorporates a methodology for Key Performance Indicators KPIs and application of the Groups Client Credit setting market risk limits, consistent regular reforecasts of its expected Risk Policy.
with the Groups risk appetite, for each financial performance, reflecting the financial market in which the Groups latest and expected market conditions.
The business sets client margin clients can trade, as well as certain The Group uses these forecasts to requirements that reflect the market price groups of markets or assets which the determine actions necessary to manage risk for each instrument, and uses tiered business considers to be correlated.
performance, with consideration given margining so that larger positions are These limits are determined with to changes in market conditions.
subject to proportionately higher margin reference to the expected liquidity requirements.
The business offers training and volatility of the underlying financial The Group regularly updates its investors and education to clients covering all product or asset class, and represent the and market analysts on its revenue aspects of trading and risk management, maximum long or short net exposure performance, including quarterly which encourages them to collateralise the Group will hold without hedging.
updates and pre-close statements, their accounts at an appropriate level and engages with investors and market in excess of the minimum requirement.
The Group sets its market risk limits with analysts to manage the risk that the In addition to cash, the Group also the objective of achieving the optimal impact of market conditions is not accepts collateral in the form of trade-off between allowing clients trades reflected in performance expectations.
shares from professional clients held to be internalised, the cost of hedging in their IG share dealing account.
and the variability of daily revenue.
The The Group is also dependent on services Group seeks to manage its market risk so from third parties.
These range from The business further mitigates client that its trading revenue predominantly the banking industry to key technology credit risk through the real-time reflects client transaction fees net of firms, and cover matters such as the monitoring of client positions via the hedging costs, and is not driven by provision of corporate and client money close-out monitor COM, and by giving market risk gains or losses.
bank accounts, client payment services, clients the ability to set a level at which hedging services, custodial services, an individual deal will be closed the The residual market risk the Group faces and advertising and marketing channels.
stop level or guaranteed stop level.
can crystallise if a market gaps, which IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35 Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Groups approach to managing The COM automatically identifies The Group actively manages the liquidity is to ensure that it has sufficient accounts that have breached their credit exposure to each of its broking liquidity to meet its broker margin liquidation thresholds and triggers counterparties, settling or recalling requirements and other financial an automated liquidation process of balances at each broker on a daily basis liabilities when due, under both positions on those accounts.
Where in line with the collateral requirements.
normal circumstances and stressed client losses are such that their total As part of its management of conditions.
These liquidity requirements equity falls below the specified concentration risk, the Group is also must be met from the Groups own liquidation level, positions will be committed to maintaining multiple liquidity resources, as client money liquidated to bring the account back brokers for each asset class.
cannot be used for its operations.
on-side, resulting in reduced credit risk exposure for the Group.
The Group is responsible, under various The Group holds liquid assets to regulatory regimes, for the stewardship enable the funding of broker margin In some jurisdictions, IG provides of client money and assets.
These requirements, ensuring that appropriate negative balance protection for retail responsibilities include the appointment and periodic review of institutions prudent margins and buffers are held clients, which is a guarantee that clients with which client money is deposited.
in segregated client money accounts, cannot lose more than the total amount The Groups general policy is that all in order to fully protect clients funds of equity held on their account.
This, financial institutional counterparties and assets, support the growth of together with COM and client-initiated holding client money accounts must have the business and its need for capital, stops, results in the transfer of an minimum short and long-term ratings and maintain a liquid assets buffer.
element of the market risk from the client of A-2 and Arespectively, although to the Group.
This market risk arises in some operating jurisdictions where The Group manages its liquidity following the closure of a client position, accounts are maintained to provide centrally, and key liquidity decisions are as the Group may hold a corresponding local banking facilities for clients, it discussed by the Executive Committee hedging position that will, assuming can be problematic to find a banking and Executive Risk Committee.
sufficient market liquidity, be unwound.
counterparty satisfying these minimum ratings requirements.
In such cases, the The Group carries out an Individual IG has significant financial exposure Group may use a locally systemically Liquidity Adequacy Assessment to a number of financial institutions, important institution.
These criteria ILAA each year, and while this applies owing to the placement of financial also apply for the Groups own bank specifically to the Groups FCA-regulated assets at banks and the hedging of accounts held with financial institutions.
entities as liquidity is centrally managed market risk in the wholesale markets, through these entities, this process which requires the Group to place In addition, the majority of deposits are provides the context for determining margin with its hedging brokers.
made on an overnight or breakable term the mitigating actions that would be basis, which enables the Group to react taken in the event of stressed liquidity Financial institution credit risk is managed immediately to any deterioration in credit conditions for the whole Group.
through the application of the Groups quality, and deposits of an unbreakable counterparty credit management policy.
nature or requiring notice are only The Group uses a number of measures held with a subset of counterparties for managing day-to-day liquidity Financial institutional counterparties which have been approved by the risk, including the level of total liquid are subject to a credit review when Executive Risk Committee.
assets of broker margin requirement a new relationship is entered into, and of same-day available cash.
and this is updated semi-annually Liquidity risk or more frequently as required, for The Group is required to fund margin example upon changes to the financial Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is payments to brokers on demand.
unable to meet its financial obligations as margin requirements are driven by the Proposed maximum exposure limits for they fall due.
It is managed through the gross hedging positions held by the these financial institutions, reflecting application of the Groups liquidity risk Group, at rates set by the brokers.
The their credit rating and systemic management policy.
value of these positions and the margin position, are reviewed and approved requirements are in turn driven by the by the Executive Risk Committee.
number of active clients, the level of client activity, the make-up of the total client exposure, exchange rates, interest rates and the value of instruments.
36 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info IG recognises that operational risk In addition to its liquid assets, the The Group undertakes an annual Internal arises in the execution of all activities Group mitigates its liquidity risk through Capital Adequacy Assessment Process undertaken by the Group, and identifies maintained access to committed ICAAP through which it assesses its capital requirements, including the and manages operational risk in four unsecured bank facilities.
The Group application of a series of stress-testing categories: technology, people, process regularly stress-tests its liquidity forecasts scenarios, to its base financial projections.
and risk arising from external events.
to validate the appropriate level of facilities The ICAAP document is reviewed it holds, and draws down on the facility and challenged by the Executive Technology risk is the risk of loss caused at least once during each year to test Risk Committee and the Board Risk by breakdown or other disruption the process for accessing that liquidity.
Committee, which recommends the result to technology performance and to the Board for review and approval.
service availability, or by information The Group produces detailed shortsecurity incidents.
It also includes new term liquidity forecasts and stress The Group operates a monitoring technology and technology that fails tests, so that appropriate management framework over its capital resources and to meet business requirements.
actions or liquidity facility drawminimum capital requirements daily, down can occur prior to a period calculating the credit and market risk The Group manages its technology risk of expected liquidity demands.
requirements arising on the exposures through its Technology Risk Framework, at the end of each business day.
The which is overseen by the Technology Capital adequacy risk Group additionally monitors internal Risk Committee.
Key performance IG operates authorised and regulated warning indicators as a component indicators, incidents and outages are businesses worldwide, supervised by of its Board Risk Dashboard, and any raised to this forum, comprising of IT the FCA in the UK and regulators across breaches are escalated to the Board and risk experts.
To manage cyber risk other jurisdictions.
As a result of this as they occur, with a recommendation and external threats to our systems supervision, the Group is required to for appropriate remedial action.
and data, the Group has a specific hold sufficient regulatory capital at both Information Security Forum, through Group and individual entity level to cover Entity-level capital requirements which senior management is made aware its risk exposures, valued according monitoring and management is carried of ongoing and potential threats, with to applicable rules, and any additional out locally according to each jurisdictions policies and processes continuously regulatory financial obligations imposed.
being refreshed to ensure their validity within the evolving landscape.
The Group is supervised on a Operational risk consolidated basis by the UKs Financial People risk is considered as the risk of Conduct Authority FCA.
In addition Operational risk is defined as the a loss intentionally or unintentionally to its two UK FCA-regulated entities, risk of loss resulting from inadequate caused by an employee, such as the Groups operations in Australia, or failed internal processes, people employee error or misdeeds, or New Zealand, Japan, Singapore, South activities, technology adoption and involving employees, such as in the area Africa, the United States of America, innovation, systems or external events.
It includes Switzerland and United Arab Emirates The Group also recognises the risk that risks relating to employment law, Dubai International Financial Centre it is unable to attract and retain the health and safety, and HR practices.
are directly authorised by the respective staff it requires to operate its business In addition, people risk includes the local regulators.
Individual capital successfully as operational risk.
risk that the Group is unable to attract requirements in each regulated entity and retain the staff it requires to are taken into account, among other Operational risk is managed through the operate its business successfully.
factors, when managing the global application of the Groups operational distribution and level of the Groups risk management framework.
The Process risk relates to the design, capital resources, as part of the Group Group continuously develops this execution and maintenance of Capital Management Framework.
framework to ensure visibility of key processes, including process risks and controls.
It focuses on clear governance, clarity of roles, process IG manages capital adequacy risk accountability for controls and escalation design and execution.
It also covers through its regulatory capital policy, and reporting mechanisms, through record-keeping, regulatory compliance and seeks to ensure that at all times which risk events are identified and failures and reporting failures.
it holds sufficient capital to operate managed and appropriate action its business successfully and to meet is taken to improve controls.
The Group manages its capital resources with the objectives of facilitating business growth, maintaining its dividend policy and complying with the regulatory capital resources requirement set by its regulators around the world.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 37 Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED External risk is the risk of loss due The Group manages and monitors the to third-party relationships and risk of clients failing to understand the outsourcing, damage to physical functionality of our products and and non-physical property or assets suffering poor outcomes.
The Group from natural or non-natural external recognises that some of its products are causes and external fraud.
not appropriate for certain consumers, and operates a process to identify The Group continues to develop its potential new clients for whom the Operational Risk Framework to ensure product may not be suitable.
The Group visibility of risks and controls.
It focuses supports clients with education and on clear accountability for controls and training, and offers account types that escalation and reporting mechanisms, limit a customers risk.
Client outcomes are monitored and reported to the Board.
through which risk events are identified and managed and appropriate action The Group recognises the risk of causing is taken to improve controls.
poor market outcomes if proper controls are not in place, for example, to detect The Group is rolling out its Risk and instances of market abuse which must Control Self-Assessment RCSA then be reported on.
Clients may also methodology, focused on areas of the attempt to use IG to commit fraud or business identified as a priority, and has launder money, and the Group has an operational risk event self-reporting designed its systems, controls and process which provides increased monitoring programmes to mitigate and visibility over events and control actions detect such issues.
These are monitored through a consolidated Control Action List.
The Group recognises the risk that the actions of its staff can result in poor Conduct risk outcomes for clients, or for the financial IG recognises and manages the risk markets.
The Group seeks to ensure that the Groups conduct may pose to that its staff are appropriately trained, the achievement of fair outcomes for managed and incentivised to ensure consumers, and to the sound, stable, that their behaviour and activities resilient and transparent operation of do not inadvertently result in poor the financial markets.
The Group has outcomes for clients or the markets.
a conduct risk framework, and has The Group also reviews remuneration implemented a conduct risk strategy policies and incentive schemes to that aims to analyse the conduct risks ensure that they are appropriate and that may arise, and sets out how those conducive to good conduct by staff.
risks are managed and mitigated.
It also sets out specific controls used to manage conduct risk.
The Group seeks to promote a positive, company-wide culture of good conduct as a competitive advantage and a means to differentiate itself clearly from those companies conducting themselves poorly.
It also seeks to ensure that all employees are aware of the importance of managing conduct risk through programme conduct risk training and awareness.
38 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018
