46 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How we manage risk Our risk management processes are embedded in all our businesses and are designed to identify, evaluate and manage the risks which could impact our performance, our reputation or our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy.
Our risk management framework Our risk appetite The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that we manage our In determining our risk appetite, the Board considers a number of factors risk exposure appropriately to achieve our strategic objectives and build including our strategic opportunities, the risks that could affect our business sustainable shareholder value.
and our ability to mitigate their impact.
Our risk appetite, the nature and level of risk we are prepared to accept to achieve our strategic objectives, is divided The Board determines our risk appetite and monitors and reviews the risk into three categories: prudent, balanced and receptive.
The Board delegates responsibility for implementing and monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk Risk appetite management to the Chief Executive and the Executive Committee.
The Board Prudent Balanced Receptive has also tasked its committees with responsibility for key areas of risk, as follows: Strategic risk oversight of financial reporting, internal financial controls and assurance processes the Audit Committee: Operational risk succession risk - the Nominations Committee: and Financial risk remuneration and incentive structure risk - the Remuneration Committee Compliance risk Further information about the roles and responsibilities of the Board and each Committee is set out on pages 52 to 79.
How we approach risk management Across the Group we operate a top-down, bottom-up approach to risk management which is illustrated in the graphic below.
This approach allows the Board and the senior leadership team to actively assess strategic risks and monitor the measures used to mitigate, transfer or avoid such risks.
It also ensures that operational risks are identified and managed at multiple levels and that key risk information is communicated effectively across the Group.
Our risk management process is embedded in all our businesses.
It provides guidance on how to identify, evaluate and manage risks which could impact our performance and our ability to implement our strategy.
STRATEGIC RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Board Determines risk appetite.
Reviews bi-annually a detailed analysis of the Groups risk profile including supporting divisional data and the actions undertaken to ensure compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
Monitors and reviews risk management processes.
Responsible for ensuring risk management culture is integrated Divisional Develops bi-annually a detailed Group and divisional risk profile which is based on information across their division and aligned to the Groups objectives.
and uploaded to the Group intranet by each manufacturing operation.
This profile analyses each Executive divisions most significant risks and outlines mitigation strategies.
Determines principal risks and mitigation strategies.
Committee Monitors changes in the risk profile.
Monitors quality and effectiveness of business level risk management processes.
Operates and monitors an active and effective risk Operating Maintains an up-to-date risk profile which identifies the key risks facing the business, assesses management process.
companies mitigating processes and controls, operates key performance indicators to validate the effectiveness of those controls and identifies areas for improvement.
Updates operating companies on principal risks and mitigation strategies.
Publishes risk profiles for each manufacturing operation to the Group intranet twice a year.
Operates reporting systems that increase management Provides monthly updates on key risks, mitigation and controls through incorporation of risk ownership and accountability.
profile data in monthly management reporting process.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 47 Our principal risks STRATEGIC Capitalising on significant organic GROWTH growth opportunities PRIORITIES The principal risks facing the Group are shown in order of priority in the table below.
KEY Improving operational This analysis covers how each risk could impact our strategy and explains what we performance are doing to monitor and mitigate each risk area.
Increasing investment in The Group is also exposed to broader financial market risks, in particular, currency New Product Development exchange rate volatility following the Brexit referendum.
A description of these risks and our centralised approach to managing them is described in Section 4.4 of the Expanding our addressable markets through targeted acquisitions financial statements.
STRATEGIC GROWTH PRINCIPAL RISKS PRIORITIES THAT WHY WE THINK THIS HOW WE ARE MANAGING CHANGES DURING 2018 COULD BE AFFECTED IS IMPORTANT THE RISK The threat of a no-deal Brexit is the risk Build flexibility to respond to market conditions and GLOBAL ECONOMIC of both EU and UK ports not coping with the potential impact associated with Brexit.
OR POLITICAL INSTABILITY the additional volume of customs work Divisional project teams formed to identify no-deal which could impact our supply chain RISK MOVEMENT: Brexit risks and build mitigation contingency plans.
EU-UK cross-border transaction flows have been The Group operates in diverse global markets mapped, and critical supply chain risks identified by The possibility that the UK leaves the EU with and demand for our products is dependent on customer and part, with specific action plans put in place.
neither a transition period nor a free trade economic and sector-specific environments.
Our main objective and the focus of our contingency agreement in place continues to pose a risk planning is to minimise interruptions to our supply chain A downturn in a global or regional economy to the supply chains, ongoing operations and and ensure our customer delivery commitments are met.
or political instability could impact end market profitability of the Group.
demand, negatively impacting revenue and Maintain a balanced portfolio operating across a IMI Critical Engineering continued to face highly our ability to deliver our strategy and achieve range of markets, sectors and geographies with competitive markets and an ongoing slow-down market expectations.
in the New Construction Fossil Power sector.
Monitor key customers and respond quickly to changes The impact has been managed through ongoing in their demands.
restructuring actions including expanding the divisions Value Engineering activities and Utilise core forecasting processes that ensure entering new less severe market areas.
operational output can be right-sized to market demand.
Whilst remaining in a strong competitive position, IMI Precision Engineering has also Undertake enhanced stress testing and sensitivity experienced volatility in some geographies analysis of business plans and regularly review key and sectors.
IMI Hydronic Engineering markets remained Focus on enhancing competitiveness by increasing stable with steady growth in most markets, and investment in New Product Development and Value right-sizing actions were undertaken to ensure Engineering and improving operational performance.
the business could respond to market changes.
Develop robust contingency plans to ensure agility to realign the cost base as required.
The Group is continually evolving, both in Operate robust systems and procedures to manage FAILURE TO DELIVER MAJOR response to external market pressures and and monitor business projects, including clear and TRANSFORMATIONAL PROJECTS to achieve our strategic goals.
measurable milestones, which are reviewed regularly ON TIME AND ON BUDGET by Divisional Managing Directors.
Change projects include business reorganisations and implementations Review major project progress at monthly Executive RISK MOVEMENT: of complex new IT systems.
NO CHANGE Failure to deliver these change projects on Continue to enhance risk assessment processes and Successful ERP implementations across the time and on budget, and failure to respond to mitigation action plans.
Group in 2018 continued to demonstrate the changing market conditions, could adversely Undertake specialist IT and Group Assurance reviews proficiency of our system implementation teams impact our financial performance.
IMI Critical Engineering has successfully Hold monthly operational and ERP steering committee managed a number of significant restructuring meetings which rigorously review project progress.
projects over the course of 2018 including several plant closures on time and to budget.
Post go-live audits to review progress on implementation plans.
Developing safe, innovative and technically Established Group-wide standard for Advanced QUALITY ISSUES LEADING TO advanced products is at the heart of what Product Quality Planning process APQP which PRODUCT FAILURE, RECALL, we do.
every business reports on weekly and monthly.
WARRANTY ISSUES, INJURY, This identifies improvements in the early phases Failure to deliver the quality required DAMAGE OR DISRUPTION TO of the development process.
could result in negative financial and CUSTOMERS BUSINESS reputational damage.
Continued focus on Quality Management Systems and audits.
RISK MOVEMENT: Test finished products and secure customer sign-off NO CHANGE on the most critical products.
Deploy targeted Lean events to improve quality, Our operational performance continued to including implementation of Obeya reviews.
improve over the course of 2018.
Details of key Reviewed every 6-months with Group-wide developments can be found on page 22.
During the year, we successfully launched a range Continue to upgrade talent with a focus on quality of new products, maintaining our high standards and product development expertise and experience.
for quality and customer satisfaction.
The level of risk has remained the same year-on-year due to the strength of the procedures and controls in the New Product Development process.
48 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our principal risks STRATEGIC GROWTH PRINCIPAL RISKS PRIORITIES THAT WHY WE THINK THIS HOW WE ARE MANAGING CHANGES DURING 2018 COULD BE AFFECTED IS IMPORTANT THE RISK An integral part of our strategic plan is to make Undertake annual review to identify potential target FAILURE TO INTEGRATE value enhancing acquisitions.
acquisitions that align with our strategy.
ACQUISITIONS SUCCESSFULLY AND Failure to deliver the post-acquisition strategy Identify hard and soft synergies within targeted DELIVER THE REQUIRED SYNERGIES could reduce the value of acquired businesses.
RISK MOVEMENT: Adhere to formal acquisition approval, due diligence NO CHANGE and post-acquisition integration processes.
Deploy a rigorous 100-day process to effectively Our post acquisition integration process, which monitor and manage post acquisition integration.
deploys a mix of divisional and Group resources, ensures that the right people across all disciplines are available to successfully project manage acquisition integration.
Successfully deployed the integration process to monitor and manage Bimba Manufacturing post acquisition.
Progress has been tracked using a structured integration plan with key milestones and responsibilities.
The global markets and regulatory environment Committed to fostering a positive culture underpinned FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH demand the highest standards of conduct and by core values and behaviours that promote fair and LEGISLATION OR A BREACH OF OUR adherence to compliance rules and procedures.
OWN HIGH STANDARDS OF ETHICAL Failure to comply with legislative requirements or Continue a robust internal controls declaration BEHAVIOUR a breach of our Code of Conduct could result in process.
significant financial and reputational damage.
RISK MOVEMENT: Established dedicated compliance resources at Group, NO CHANGE As we expand our operations to achieve growth it divisional and local levels.
Each division have specific is essential that we maintain our high standards compliance plans in place which are executed over We do not engage with customers, suppliers of conduct and compliance procedures.
or any other third parties who are not aligned Legislative requirements in relation to tax, All employees are provided with easy access to with our own code of conduct and strong anti-bribery, fraud and competition law include policies, manuals, guidelines and standard operating ethical standards.
rigorous monitoring and training of new and procedures via our global intranet.
During the year we introduced internal controls existing employees.
Undertake regular employee training focused on key and procedures to ensure compliance with the risk areas such as fraud, antibribery and corruption EU General Data Protection Regulation.
and how to apply the IMI Way in everyday situations.
Prior to the November 2018 deadline, we closed Operate a confidential independent hotline to down all trading activities with Iran following the report concerns.
Undertake rigorous due diligence and approval The challenging territories in which we operate procedures on third party agents.
Terminate all make the risk of regulatory breach a continued non-compliant agents.
As such, our risk profile remains unchanged.
Operate stringent procedures and processes for dealings with higher risk territories, including formal training for relevant employees.
Actively monitor and manage trade sanctions.
We depend on a significant number of suppliers Authorise the purchase and manufacture of long leadFAILURE TO MANAGE who provide essential products and services.
time components to and from our UK EU supply base.
THE SUPPLY CHAIN Failure to manage our supply chain, especially Execute our contingency plans in the case of a noRISK MOVEMENT: in respect of quality or on-time delivery to our deal Brexit and continue to monitor the situation and INCREASED customers, could have a material impact on our react accordingly.
Monitor risks on a regular basis and develop The possibility that the UK leaves the EU with contingency plans to mitigate the impact of supplier neither a transition period nor a free trade failure, increased pricing or any other supplier agreement in place continues to pose a risk to associated risk.
the supply chains, ongoing operations and profitability of the Group.
Assess specific Supplier Code of Conduct risks across divisional supply chains and audit high-risk suppliers for Growth in our IMI Precision Engineering markets all aspects of supply chain risk including Modern Slavery.
has placed pressure on our suppliers, in some cases impacting on our delivery performance Operate preferred supplier lists for all major materials in 2018.
In response, the division upgraded its and components.
Where appropriate, certain suppliers supplier management processes and is executing are operating under a framework agreement.
specific improvement plans for critical suppliers.
Regular review meetings with key suppliers and, as required, deploy escalation meetings.
Monitor key supplier performance using supplier scorecards.
Carry adequate safety stock and or maintain dual supply sources for critical components.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 49 STRATEGIC Capitalising on significant organic GROWTH growth opportunities PRIORITIES KEY Improving operational performance Increasing investment in New Product Development Expanding our addressable markets through targeted acquisitions STRATEGIC GROWTH PRINCIPAL RISKS PRIORITIES THAT WHY WE THINK THIS HOW WE ARE MANAGING CHANGES DURING 2018 COULD BE AFFECTED IS IMPORTANT THE RISK While we have a well-developed strategy to Continue our IT Security Improvement programme UNAUTHORISED ACCESS TO keep abreast of new threats and continually across the Group.
This includes 24 7 network OUR IT SYSTEMS improve the Groups IT infrastructure, we monitoring via a security operations centre.
cannot guarantee that our actions are keeping RISK MOVEMENT: Centralised security software in place.
Continued pace with the constantly evolving threat INCREASED emphasis on upgrading and strengthening our environment.
existing hardware and software against new and The digital and security threat environment in Unapproved access to our IT systems could emerging threats.
relation to our IT systems and infrastructure is result in loss of intellectual property, fraudulent Monthly reviews with Divisional Managing Directors constantly and quickly evolving.
We continued activity, theft and business interruption.
to assess progress and monitor future actions to invest in strengthening our IT systems and priorities.
and protecting our data, alongside raising awareness of cyber security across all parts Continue to raise awareness of cyber security through of our business.
During 2018 the Group significantly upgraded Instigated disaster recovery plans on all essential our anti-malware, intruder detection, USB IT assets, including stringent system back up device control and internet filtering capabilities.
procedures at all of our businesses In addition, we have deployed laptop encryption and completed a significant number of firewall replacements to reinforce our infrastructure against new and emerging threats.
A security awareness campaign, Be Cyber Safe commenced roll out during 2018 and will continue to run throughout 2019.
Increased competition could lead to loss Continue to embed effective New Product Development INCREASINGLY COMPETITIVE of customers and or pricing pressures processes including competitor tear down testing, MARKETS resulting in lost sales, reduced profits and benchmarking competitor products and Value Engineering.
RISK MOVEMENT: Active participation in international trade fairs and shows.
INCREASED Utilise our metrics to track performance and identify areas for improvement.
Market dynamics continues to be a significant consideration for the Group and impacts all Continue to review site capacity to ensure best three divisions.
We have experienced increases utilisation and improve productivity.
in material, labour and other costs which Developed standard costings to ensure thorough impacted our business over the course of 2018. understanding of product cost and internal processes Value Engineering processes enabled IMI to track and manage cost increase appropriately.
Critical Engineering to win 180m of new Continue to enhance operational performance, quality orders in 2018. delivery and service standards through Lean implementation.
Divisional restructuring activities continue to Undertake regular customer feedback performance efficiently manage our fixed cost base and surveys and implement action plans where will remain an ongoing focus over the improvements are required.
Continue Value Engineering activities in all three divisions to deliver better, more cost-effective products to the customer.
Operate market specific pricing strategies to maintain margins and continually review supply chain performance to mitigate or defer input cost inflation.
Our sustainable long-term growth is reliant Embed New Product Development into strategic NEW PRODUCT on delivering a pipeline of innovative planning process with technology and product DEVELOPMENT new products.
roadmaps included in each divisions five-year plan.
RISK MOVEMENT: Failure to deliver market leading products Continue to invest in research and development to NO CHANGE on time and on budget will impact our ability ensure we target the most profitable opportunities.
Established centres of design and Our end to end Advanced Product Quality technological excellence.
Planning APQP and New Product Development processes have successfully delivered Track new product introduction plans and actions competitively priced new products to market.
on both a weekly and monthly basis.
During 2018, processes covering design, Track key performance metrics including sales prototyping, testing, costing and launch from new products and research and development to markets, were embedded across all spend against sales.
Continue competitor product tear down and testing.
A New Product Development and Future Innovation strategy was put in place for each division in 2018.
Further information about our New Product Development activities are detailed on page 24.
50 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Industrial Automation in action.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 51 Corporate Governance 52 The Board 54 Letter from the Chairman 55 Corporate Governance Report 60 Audit Committee Report 64 Nominations Committee Report 66 Directors Remuneration Report Engineering GREAT the IMI Way
