PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES HOW WE MANAGE RISK RISK IDENTIFICATION The assessment of risk is based on views from across the The achievement of the Groups strategic aims is underpinned business, including an operational bottom-up review.
by the effective management of our enterprise risks.
The ability The results of these assessments are subsequently reviewed to identify, assess and act to mitigate material risks is a key by senior management to ensure an effective top-down input element of our risk management framework.
However, it is from the OPEX and the Board, ensuring both operational and accepted that no approach can guarantee the identification and strategic perspectives are considered in establishing our mitigation of all risks.
assessment of the risks we face as a business.
Risks are accepted in line with the Boards defined risk appetite All principal risks identified through the risk assessment process in the achievement of the approved strategy, with decisions could compromise the achievement of the Groups strategic made in accordance with delegated authority.
objectives over any 12 month period.
In line with the viability statement and our business planning processes, we further ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION OF RISKS consider their impact over a longer three-year horizon.
Although the Board is ultimately accountable for managing the The mitigation and management of identified risks is vital to the Groups risks, risk management is the responsibility of all our success of the Group.
The Groups risk management and internal people.
The identification of risks and their effective mitigation control framework and related reporting is further discussed in forms part of our routine operational processes and practices, the Audit Committee Report on page 41. and is supported by our formal risk assessment process.
As part of the ongoing development of the risk management RISK LANDSCAPE process we have introduced a broader multi-dimensional tool The Group operates in highly competitive multi-national to enable the assessment of risks.
The risk tool uses multiple markets and so faces general commercial risks associated with factors in the assessment of risk, as represented in the a large FMCG business including the effect of movements in diagram below.
Our risk assessment process is embedded within our business We constantly assess and evaluate the risks posed by the changing planning cycle and aligned to our strategic objectives.
environments in which we operate, whether geo-political, The evaluation of the risks against our risk assessment socio-economic or technological.
The consideration of the factors creates a balanced and informed perspective of the potential impacts and most likely causes ensures a timely, risk impact, and facilitates the best allocation of resources.
CONTROLLABILITY BREXIT AND PROTECTIONIST POLICIES Risks arising from the uncertainty of the terms of the UK exit from the European Union and the wider escalation of international trade tariffs between nations continues to be evaluated across the business.
Possible outcomes are considered in IMPACT ON LIKELIHOOD & the context of their impact on existing risks, rather INVESTOR MULTIIMPACT SENTIMENT than being reported as principal risks in themselves.
DIMENSIONAL ASSESSMENT This ensures appropriate enterprise wide OF RISKS assessment of impacts, and preparedness for potential outcomes through the design and implementation of effective and appropriate mitigating activities.
Key areas of impact assessment include product and raw material supply, financing, foreign exchange, regulatory PERMANENCY OF SPEED OF IMPACT IMPACT change, taxation, and people related risks.
24 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 24 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS In the following section we highlight the principal risks we face and identify the mitigations that we have in place to manage the crystallisation of such risks.
Not all of these principal risks are within our direct control, and the list cannot be considered to be exhaustive, as other risks and uncertainties may emerge in a changing business environment.
Additionally, there are risks such as cyber threats that we do not report as a principal risk.
The potential impacts of such threats are considered across the business.
This approach best ensures responsibility and accountability for appropriate mitigation on an enterprise basis, supported by our overall Information Systems security approach.
NEXT GENERATION PRODUCTS Significant additive growth opportunities from NGP also require us to manage a wider variability of outcomes Change in consumer trends Mitigation As an emerging category the NGP market place is subject We continually monitor consumer activity at both a to an increased likelihood of changes in consumer trends.
This enables an effective means of profiling and predicting changes to best adapt the Impacts: Groups product portfolio.
Failure to respond to current and emerging trends could The Group continues to develop its portfolio of NGP impact attractiveness of products and reduce demand.
products, along with strategic acquisitions in the sector, Brand equity could be impacted by consumer perception to provide consumers with appropriate choices in the of brand relevance.
Innovation Mitigation Failure to realise portfolio opportunities in a timely manner.
The Group acquired Nerudia for its innovation expertise in the NGP industry.
Impacts: Innovation processes are designed to develop consumer Portfolio fails to meet consumer demands resulting in products based upon robust analysis and testing.
IP risks are managed by subject matter experts within Failure to act upon consumer insights prevents the Group, ensuring protection of our own innovations opportunities from being seized and impacts growth.
and best enabling the development process.
Product development and or launch impacted by IP constraints impacting ability to respond to competitor offerings.
Product supply Mitigation The scale of growth in NGP creates pressures on the ability Product supply is managed by our experienced of manufacturers to respond to demand growth.
Manufacturing and Supply Chain function.
Integration of our NGP manufacture and supply chain Impacts: into the existing tobacco organisation facilitates best Failure to meet consumer demand resulting in lost practice and experience.
Quality control testing and monitoring is a core part of Supply chain pressures result in product quality issues our manufacturing and supply chain processes, with impacting consumer satisfaction and brand equity.
robust regulatory compliance carried out.
Product regulation Mitigation Product regulatory change impacts consumer demand or We engage with regulators in an appropriate manner to trends.
The pace of regulatory change on the industry could create the right regulatory framework.
be impacted by regulator reaction to competitor actions We provide the results of scientific research into the notably, the Federal Drug Administration in the USA.
risks related to NGP and the relative benefits compared to cigarettes or combustible tobacco.
Impacts: We proactively manage our product portfolio and related Changes to product specification or restrictions strategies to best ensure commercial success in a on ingredients, nicotine levels or devices could reduce changing regulatory environment.
consumer demand or our ability to sell.
Restrictions on advertising or marketing of product resulting in reduced consumer interaction or awareness.
com 25 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued TOBACCO MAXIMISATION Key risks identified as having the most likely impact on the performance of our tobacco assets Change in excise duty Mitigation Adverse changes in the level or structure of excise We engage with authorities to provide informed input duties as Governments seek to raise public funds and to the unintended consequences of disproportionate use affordability as a means of tobacco control.
The Group employs subject matter experts to monitor Impacts: and manage the potential impact of excise changes and Increased cost to the consumer could influence consumer align our product portfolio to a range of appropriate choices and potentially reduce tobacco purchases.
Potential pressure on ability to achieve planned We offer appropriate consumer focused choices at price increases.
market level, across both our tobacco and NGP portfolio.
Inability to pass on an increase in excise could result in lower product margin and have negative mix impacts.
Economic pressure on consumption Mitigation The Group has a significant market presence in mature We continually monitor and analyse economic European markets and the USA.
An increase in economic indicators and consumption patterns to ensure that our uncertainty, or related government austerity measures in current and future portfolio provides the consumer with those markets, could influence consumer behaviour.
a range of products across different price points.
This analysis is completed at both a local and Group level Impacts: and provides a key input to our product development, A material change in the economic circumstances of, business planning and pricing strategies.
and or our related performance in, our priority markets The Groups international footprint and comprehensive may affect our future profit development.
portfolio of tobacco and NGP products provides an Affordability impacts could create a shift to lower increasing balance in our exposure to both EU and priced, value driven propositions.
A reduction in the size of the legitimate tobacco market from: Lower consumer expenditure: and Increased propensity to purchase cheaper non-duty paid product from illicit channels.
Counterfeit and illicit non-duty paid product in market Mitigation The consequence of excise and regulatory regimes is We maintain strong standards and controls for our a widening gap between the price of legitimate and business and our first-line customers to prevent illegitimate product.
Our operational sales teams are supported by specialist Impacts: teams employed to support the business, governments, Counterfeit and illicit trade reduces the size of the and law enforcement agencies with targeted solutions legitimate market, eroding volume and market share.
Reduction in the size of the legitimate tobacco market We work alongside the European Commissions reduces achievable volumes and reduces Government Anti-Fraud Office OLAF and partner with governments excise revenue.
and law enforcement agencies around the world on The sale of counterfeit product and smuggled illicit anti-illicit trade initiatives.
whites provides access to product of inferior quality that could result in damage to our brands.
Illicit trade increases the access of underage smokers to tobacco products due to the lack of regulatory controls in place.
26 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 26 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS TOBACCO MAXIMISATION CONTINUED Key risks identified as having the most likely impact on the performance of our tobacco assets Product quality Mitigation Product fails to meet regulatory or consumer requirements.
Quality control testing and monitoring is a core part of our manufacturing and supply chain processes, Impacts: with robust regulatory compliance completed on a Brand and reputational damage resulting in reduced sales.
Potential financial penalty and regulatory censure.
Customer complaints monitoring and escalation processes exist across our markets, ensuring that A requirement to recall product from a market resulting customer feedback is acted upon and any quality issues in brand damage and lost sales.
are managed in an effective and appropriate manner.
In the event of the requirement to recall product, effective processes exist to mitigate the risks to our supply chain.
Changes in consumer trends Mitigation The Group can be affected by changes in consumer We continually monitor consumer activity at both a choices.
Affordability is a key driver of consumer local and Group level.
preference and the availability of NGP.
Profiling consumer activity and predicting changes enables us to adapt the Groups product portfolio to Impacts: market preferences.
Failure to identify threats and opportunities arising from changes in consumer preferences impacts volumes and profits.
Brand equity Mitigation Failure to maintain and grow brand equity, or ensure the Market trends, competitor portfolio changes and relevance of Group brands to changing consumer trends.
consumer trends are monitored to ensure brand strength and future relevance of our portfolio of brands.
Impacts: Our Market Repeatable Model supports a consistent Brand and reputational damage resulting in strategic sales and marketing approach.
Product regulation Mitigation Impact of product regulation on product specification, Appropriate and proactive engagement undertaken to availability and consumer choice.
contribute to informed and rational regulatory change.
Compliance team assesses and manages product and Impacts: process change requirements in US market.
Change in consumer choice reduces sales volume or margins.
Failure to prove substantial equivalence to pre-2007 product specification in the USA results in an inability to supply individual brands.
com 27 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued NEW WAYS OF WORKING SIMPLIFICATION AND COST EFFICIENCIES Simplified operating model which supports the delivery of the Groups strategy is not achieved in a timely and effective manner Cost optimisation Mitigation Failure to appropriately align the Groups cost base in line Operating model design is governed by formal control with the operating environment.
and reporting and led by key business stakeholders to best ensure effective operational design.
Impacts: Continued focus upon cost embedded within the The operating model fails to support the strategy.
business planning and operational processes.
Reduced profit and cash available for reinvestment Achievement of cost efficiencies is supported by in the business.
performance monitoring and a robust and effective Potential reduction in stakeholder confidence.
RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR Risks that impact the continued delivery of a strong governance and sustainability agenda Legal and regulatory compliance Mitigation The Groups policies and standards mandate that all Expertise at a Group and local level for key areas of employees must comply with legislation relevant to a UK legal compliance to provide expert advice in the listed company and in the countries in which they development of policy, process, training and monitoring operate.
Failure to comply with local and international of compliance.
laws may result in investigations and the enforcement of The Groups Code of Conduct and values articulate the financial or regulatory censure.
behaviours we expect from all our people.
Impacts: Compliance with key controls is certified by management, together with an annual certification of compliance with Allegations of inappropriate behaviour or related the Code of Conduct of their area of the business.
investigations could result in damage to our reputation International sanctions are closely monitored and we and the potential for financial and criminal penalties for actively seek external advice to ensure that we remain both the Group and individuals.
The cost of responding to any investigations can be In the event of any investigation which may or may not substantial and require significant resource and result in actions being brought against us, we cooperate management focus.
fully with the relevant authority making the investigation and will continue to do so.
Litigation Mitigation Tobacco litigation and other claims are pending against We employ internal and external lawyers specialising the Group.
To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought in the defence of product liability and other litigation.
against the Group has been successful and or resulted in Advice is provided to prevent causes of litigation, the recovery of damages.
along with guidance on defence strategies to direct and manage litigation risk and monitor potential Impacts: claims around the Group.
If any claim against the Group was to be successful, it might result in a significant liability for damages and might lead to further claims against us.
Regardless of the outcome, the costs of defending such claims can be substantial and may not be fully recoverable.
28 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 28 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CAPITAL DISCIPLINE AND STRONG CASH GENERATION Risks impacting rigorous capital allocation and strong cash conversion Failure to maintain strong cash flows could impact the Mitigation Groups ability to invest in strategic initiatives or reduce We have a strong focus on cash generation supported by the ability to repay committed debt.
Group-wide guidance and governance processes.
Appropriate authority and accountability is in place for Impacts: investments and spend, including achievement of Failure to maintain cash flows could reduce the Groups required return criteria.
ability to pay down debt levels, impacting covenants, Cash flows, financing requirements and key rating credit ratings, and investor confidence.
agency metrics are regularly forecast and updated in line A fall in certain of our credit ratings would raise the cost of with performance to manage future financing needs and our existing committed funding and is likely to raise the optimise cost and availability.
cost of future funding and affect our ability to raise debt.
The Treasury function operates in accordance with the Adverse movements in interest rates could result in terms of reference and delegated authorities set out by higher funding costs and cash outflows.
the Board, with independent oversight from the Failure of a financial counterparty e. g. cash deposits Treasury Committee.
and derivatives could result in losses.
VIABILITY STATEMENT The Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required by the going concern requirements of the Code.
This longer-term assessment process supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, and going concern, made on page 23.
The Groups annual corporate planning processes include completion of a strategic review, preparation of a three-year business plan and a rolling re-forecast of current year business performance and prospects.
The plans and projections prepared as part of these corporate planning processes consider the Groups cash flows, committed funding, forecast future funding requirements, banking covenants, and other key financial ratios, including those relevant to maintaining our investment grade ratings.
These projections represent the Directors best estimate of the expected future financial prospects of the business, based on all currently available information.
However, the Group has also assessed the financial impact which could arise if certain risk factors crystallised.
This sensitivity analysis is undertaken to stress-test the resilience of the Group and its business model to the potential impact of the Groups principal risks, or a combination of those risks.
This stress-testing takes account of the availability and effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
The risk impacts which have been modelled include the following possible scenarios: The consequences of adverse commercial pressures, involving volume reduction and or falls in margin, driven by reductions in the size of the legitimate tobacco market or other changes in the level of consumer demand for our products.
The possible costs associated with legal and other regulatory challenges, including competition enquiries and tax audits.
Failure to deliver on key strategic initiatives, including growth within our Next Generation Products business.
In considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk management and internal control systems, as described on page 45, are taken into account.
Whilst the Board has no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, the period over which the Board considers it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability, based on the risk and sensitivity analysis undertaken, is the three-year period to September 2021.
This reflects the period used for the Groups business plans and has been selected because, together with the planning process set out above, it gives management and the Board sufficient, realistic visibility on the future in the context of the industry environment.
The Board has considered whether it is aware of any specific relevant factors beyond the three-year horizon and confirmed that there are none.
The Board confirms that its assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and or liquidity, and which are set out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 24 to 29, was robust.
On the basis of this robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, and on the assumption that they are managed or mitigated in the ways disclosed, the Boards review of the business plan and other matters considered and reviewed during the year, and the results of the sensitivity analysis undertaken and described above, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to September 2021. www.
