STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT The table sets out the non-financial information as required under the Non-Financial Reporting Directive.
Reporting Requirement Relevant Policy Where to read more Page Employees Code of Conduct CSR Report 30 Health & Safety Policy Directors Report 90-91 See below Human Rights Code of Conduct See below Modern Slavery Statement www.
com Social matters Code of Conduct CSR Report Environmental matters Code of Conduct See below Anti-bribery and corruption Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy Code of Conduct Gifts and Hospitality Policy Business Model Our business model 8-9 The Inchcape Code of Conduct is available on www.
com Governance STAKEHOLDER VOICE ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS The CSR Report on pages 28 to 33 sets out the key The Groups business model is not reliant on natural stakeholders and how the Group has engaged with resources however the Company acknowledges that our them during the year.
The Board receives regular main suppliers, our OEM partners, do.
Each of our brand updates from stakeholders including shareholders, partners have developed comprehensive sustainability OEM brand partners and employees.
The Board will programmes and the automotive industry in general has consider the process for workforce engagement to made significant progress in reducing vehicle emissions.
ensure that it complies with the 2018 UK Corporate Our OEM partners are at the forefront of technological Governance Code and will report on progress in next advances to improve fuel efficiency.
Further information years Annual Report and Accounts.
on future trends can be found on page 11.
As an automotive Distributor and Retailer we do not have EMPLOYEES a manufacturing footprint to manage however we use Our employees are integral to our business model and energy in our dealerships, transport cars and parts the delivery of our strategy and failure to attract, retain globally and have an impact from business travel.
and develop our people is recognised as a key risk, Further details of our greenhouse gas emissions can further details of which are given in the Risk Management be found on page 90.
Regular reviews are undertaken to ensure that we have the right skills to deliver for our ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION customers, including technician programmes and The Company has in place an anti-bribery and apprenticeships.
A new employee experience survey corruption training programme which employees are and focus group sessions have been rolled out globally required to complete.
This programme is being refreshed and the results of these, along with any action plans, in 2018 and employees will be required to undertake will be communicated to our designated Non-Executive a new online training module which will also be included Director, as part of the workforce engagement required in the induction programme for new employees where under the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our anti-bribery and corruption policy sets Employee policies are implemented at a local level and out our zero tolerance stance to bribery and corruption.
include policies on pay and rewards, flexible working, Compliance is monitored via reports to Speak Up!, maternity and paternity policies, the external whistleblowing channel, and adherence HUMAN RIGHTS to other relevant policies such as the gifts and hospitality policy.
We embrace, support and respect the human rights of everyone we work with and we comply fully with appropriate human rights legislation in the countries in which we operate.
We dont use or accept forced, bonded or involuntary prison or child labour.
We only employ people who choose to work freely and respect their rights to equal opportunities and freedom of association.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 In the UK Inchcape represents Mercedes-Benz as a Retailer, and with 12 dealerships in the Midlands and North West of England, we are one of the largest in the market.
Our relationship with Daimlers brands dates to 1985.
LOCATIONS RETAIL Ellesmere Port Liverpool Oxford Coventry Loughborough Southport Derby Conwy Stratford upon Avon Leicester Nottingham Warrington 34 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK MANAGEMENT OUR RISK FRAMEWORK The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its objectives and has implemented a comprehensive risk management framework to help it do so.
By managing our risks in a professional and consistent way, we aim to operate with true peace of mind.
INCHCAPE PEACE OF MIND RISK APPETITE STATEMENT OUR APPROACH TO RISK During the year the Board considered its risk appetite against each of the principal risks, but with a strong focus Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM is our Group-wide risk management and governance framework focusing on on strategic and managed risks where we perceive we have the greatest influence.
The Board also discussed its empowering each and every one of our colleagues to consider the risks associated with the decisions they take.
risk appetite with regard to inherent risks, but with recognition that we have proportionately less influence The Group has a three lines of defence model, with upon these, and whilst we mitigate as far as we can, the first line of defence the policies and procedures inherent risks are an accepted part of doing business.
implemented locally, the second line of defence comprising oversight functions and regional and Group In summary, the Board has a very low appetite for risks that could lead to violations of health, safety and management and the third line of defence the Internal Audit function.
Continuously reviewing and building on environmental legislation, or to breaches of legal and regulatory requirements, and we have recently made our procedures, processes and frameworks to prevent risks from impacting our business, or to enable us to additional investments in these areas to ensure we maintain appropriate compliance processes.
respond promptly and decisively when they do, gives us confidence in our ability to achieve our strategic In keeping with the Ignite strategy, we also have a low objectives and support the long-term sustainable growth appetite for risks that could impact our reputation, of our business.
or that of our OEM partners, customers or employees, for example in the areas of data management and The automotive industry is set to experience a period of rapid and unprecedented change, bringing both risks cyber security, as evidenced by our focus on GDPR compliance processes and through the implementation and opportunities, and our overview of the industry is given on page 11.
Additionally, as a global business with of a comprehensive cyber security strategy.
a focus on growth by acquisition, we operate in In contrast, the Group has a higher risk appetite an ever-changing, dynamic risk environment where in relation to operating in economically or politically economic, political, environmental, social, legal and challenging markets, as demonstrated by the acquisition technological changes present a complex risk of the Grupo Rudelman business during the year, and by landscape which threatens our ability to achieve our expansion into Kenya with JLR.
We appreciate that our strategic objectives.
However, we believe that our without taking risks in new and sometimes unstable diversity of brand portfolio and geographic spread, territories we would miss out on valuable opportunities combined with our strong balance sheet, cost control for growth, particularly in emerging markets.
We have and risk-aware decision-making processes, make us experience in successfully managing operations in resilient to all but the most significant and persistent risks.
volatile markets and, accordingly, we have the capability and control procedures in place to address the The Board reviews the Group Principal Risk Footprint and its appetite for risk on an annual basis, and adopts an challenges that come with those risks.
integrated approach to risk by regularly discussing the We recognise that the automotive industry is ripe for principal risks as part of its agenda.
disruption and as such we are closely monitoring the In 2018 the Board focused its review of the principal risks opportunities and challenges that may arise.
We are willing to take measured risks and make calculated according to both the potential severity of those risks, but also with regard to the level of influence we are able investments to preserve and improve our position in the future automotive value chain, for example through to exert over them.
In doing so it ensured that the Groups risk mitigation activities centred on those risks where significant investments in the digital customer journey.
it can have the greatest influence in the context of its risk appetite.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Group risk framework BOARD The Board is responsible for setting out its risk appetite and for reviewing the Groups principal risks in that context.
In addition to the annual risk assessment, the Board adopts an integrated approach by discussing the principal risks as part of its annual agenda.
Internal Audit AUDIT COMMITTEE Provide risk-based The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for reviewing independent assurance to the effectiveness of risk management, internal controls, compliance and the Audit Committee over whistleblowing, receiving regular reports from management, the Head of the effectiveness of internal Corporate Assurance, and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee controls and risk also undertake deep dives on the Groups principal risks.
3rd line of defence GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Group Executive Committee carries out routine evaluations of the Groups principal risks and ensures that appropriate mitigating actions are identified and implemented and annually reviews and approves the Group Principal Risk Footprint.
GROUP IPOM COMMITTEE A sub-committee of the Group Executive Committee, whose remit is to ensure: Corporate assurance There is the correct mechanism in place to identify, evaluate and Leads continuous mitigate the Groups principal risks: improvement in our risk A compliance programme is in place that meets or exceeds external management practices and risk mitigation techniques, benchmarks and is appropriate in terms of legal requirements, content, sector, costs and resources: and coordinates the Group Risk Assessment Process.
Internal controls are appropriate, well designed and operating consistently: The Groups fraud and whistleblowing programme is operating effectively.
Regional risk champions FUNCTIONAL LEADERS REGIONAL IPOM Market based experts who Oversee risk management activity COMMITTEES coordinate regional risk within their area of expertise, Provide direct oversight of risk management activity, providing detailed input into the including risk reports.
management activity across each risk process, including biannual region.
They meet quarterly to risk assessments to the Group review the principal risks and iPOM Committee.
mitigating actions, reporting twice Finance leadership annually to the Group iPOM 2nd line of defence team Committee.
Deliver ongoing support for 2nd line of defence the implementation of mitigating actions, and also provide independent challenge to the risk footprint Market iPOM Committees at least annually.
In each market, a Market iPOM Committee ensures that risk management remains a management priority.
Meetings and outputs are aligned with the Regional Group iPOM Committees, Audit Committee and Board meetings.
1st line of defence 36 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk information Direction & Oversight Identification, evaluation, management, mitigation, Risk Appetite and Risk Governance Framework monitoring STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS E T A U L A V E R E P O R T Y F I T N THE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The Group has a consistent approach to risk assessment throughout its operations.
The process and outputs are coordinated by the Group Head of Corporate Assurance.
We identify the risks and opportunities that may impede or expedite our ability Identify to achieve our Ignite strategic objectives.
We articulate those risks and opportunities in a consistent way.
We prioritise our risks according to a consistent set of definitions, considering Evaluate both the impact and the likelihood, allowing us to focus our mitigation plans.
Management teams take action to address the risks we face either to control Treat the likelihood of the risks crystallising or mitigate the impact if they do and bring our risk profile in line with the Boards risk appetite.
The Group Executive Committee and the Board regularly review the output from Report the Enterprise Risk Management process.
We maintain an up-to-date assessment of risks and ensure that the controlling Monitor and mitigating actions we have identified are taken in a timely way.
Market and regional iPOM Committees, and functional leads, review their risks on a quarterly basis and risk registers are formally reported to the Group twice per year.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 E D I T R E A T R O T I N O M RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Changes to the risk footprint GROUP PRINCIPAL RISK FOOTPRINT Following a detailed review of the Group principal risk The principal risk footprint comprises the most pressing footprint, the Board has in some cases made revisions risks that would cause the greatest damage to the to either the scope of the risk or its assessment of its reputation or financial strength of the Company if not severity.
These changes are noted in the detailed effectively evaluated, understood and managed.
The Group iPOM Committee discusses and reviews the Groups principal risks on a rolling basis as part In addition, the following risk was removed from the of its normal operations.
During 2018 the leadership principal risk footprint as the Board felt that there was team of each region presented a detailed regional risk now sufficient certainty for the implications to be assessment to the Committee.
managed under normal business operations.
We recognise, and are actively managing, further risks Dynamic changes in local or international tax rules both at Group level and within individual business units e. g. domestic tax reform in markets in which we as identified by our comprehensive risk management operate or changes to transfer pricing rules as a result process, but these are deemed less material than the of the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Sharing initiative.
16 principal risk factors noted on the footprint.
Given the size and geographical diversity of our business, we understand there may be additional risks not currently known to management and we continuously improve our iPOM processes to ensure we capture as complete a picture as possible.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 9 10 11 12 15 16 8 13 14 Low Medium High LIKELIHOOD Note: The Board reviews its risks according to where we have most influence over the outcome STRATEGIC risks directly addressed by Ignite MANAGED risks where our ability to influence the impact and or likelihood is relatively high INHERENT risks where our ability to influence the impact and or likelihood is relatively low 38 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 IMPACT Low Medium High STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal risks The principal risks to achievement of our strategy are: Key risks Link to Ignite Trend Loss of global Distribution contract with major brand partner.
1 g Significant retrenchment of credit available to customers, dealer network or Inchcape plc negatively 2 impacts vehicle sales and or operational capability.
g Material damage to OEM brand or product reputation, or a major interruption to OEM operations 3 or product supply, negatively impacts vehicle sales.
g Major loss or misappropriation of confidential or sensitive data results in financial penalty TRUST 4 and or reputational damage.
g Failure to achieve sufficient return on investment through our acquisition strategy leads to higher 5 leverage, reduced EPS and or deterioration of our relationship with our brand partners.
h Impact of disruptive technologies and or new entrants to the industry threatens our position 6 in the value chain.
g 7 Failure to keep pace with changes in the digital economy impacts on revenues and or OEM relations.
h Fluctuations in exchange rates with negative impact on financial performance.
8 g Major cyber incident or other systems interruption impacts on ability to service customers 9 and or operational efficiency.
g Failure to safeguard our customers and employees by not consistently applying EH&S standards TRUST 10 across the Group.
g Internal controls failure or fraud of sufficient scale to materially affect financial performance or 11 reputation.
g Individual governments increasing restrictions on cross border currency movements leads to higher 12 incidents of trapped cash across the Group.
g Social, political and regulatory instability leads to economic uncertainty, market interruption 13 and or threat to safety.
g Changes in legislation, or the way that legislation is applied, directly affect customer demand 14 for certain vehicle types or our ability to generate income from Aftersales.
g Failure to comply with laws and regulations leads to material financial penalty or 15 reputational damage.
h Failure to attract, retain and develop our people leads to economic uncertainty, market interruption 16 and or threat to safety.
g Key Become the OEM partner of choice Deliver full potential on all our revenue streams Invest to accelerate growth Lead in customer experience Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED KEY RISKS STRATEGIC RISKS Risks which are mitigated directly by the implementation of our Ignite strategy Description Impact Mitigating actions Trend Impact: Likelihood: Loss of distribution contract with major brand partner g High Low Distribution and Retail contracts are fundamental to our Non-renewal, or OEM partner of choice is a central pillar of business model.
Our ability to maintain those contracts, termination, of Distribution Ignite strategy.
and attract and execute further business development or Retail contracts.
Partner development teams continuously opportunities, depends upon the quality of our OEM Negative impacts on improve relations, share knowledge and address relationships.
common issues with each OEM globally.
The underlying factors which could contribute to a contract Reduced ability to deliver Diversification of brand partner relationships acts being terminated include: inorganic growth.
as a natural hedge against the impact of a loss Failure to deliver a sufficiently attractive value proposition of a single OEM relationship.
Focus on agreeing, and delivering to, Consistent failure to deliver to targets or standards OEM volume expectations.
or comply with the terms of Distribution agreements.
Strong focus on legal and regulatory Failure to deliver on growth strategy or defend our compliance.
business model against new entrants.
Comprehensive risk management framework Major fraud, bribery, data security or other systemic to mitigate unforeseen threats.
Impact: Likelihood: Failure to achieve sufficient return on investment through our h High Medium acquisitions strategy leads to reduced EPS and or deterioration of our relationship with our OEM partners Inchcape complements its organic growth agenda by Inefficient capital Top down and bottom up approach to target pursuing inorganic growth through acquisition.
made several successful acquisitions in recent years.
Failure to realise Dedicated business development team in place Failure to identify appropriate targets, acquire them on the growth objectives.
right terms or to efficiently integrate those businesses into our Damage to relationship Strong M&A governance process through M&A existing operation will adversely impact our ability to deliver with OEM partner.
the benefits expected from those acquisitions.
Overpayment for Partnering with the OEM, where appropriate, acquisition impacts on to align expectations and requirements.
Robust valuation and comprehensive due Exposure to unknown diligence process supported by external advisors.
misunderstood risks in Codified, regionally driven integration strategy unfamiliar markets.
developed and supported by Group functions.
Intensive performance focus for newly acquired businesses.
Roll out of Minimum Control Framework MCF in each new business.
2018 Update In recognition of the quickening pace of investment in new businesses under Ignite, the definition of this principal risk has been widened to reflect the financial and reputational risks in the full M&A process, rather than focussing purely on extraction of value as reported in the 2017 risk assessment.
Given the increasing volume of deals and opportunities we have also increased our assessment of the gross likelihood from low to medium.
40 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Description Impact Mitigating actions Trend Impact: Likelihood: Impact of disruptive technologies and or new entrants to the g High High industry threatens our position in the value chain The automotive sector is set to experience a period of rapid Volume and margin are Diversification of brand partnerships across and unprecedented change bringing both risks and adversely impacted different vehicle types and technologies.
Continually seeking to understand how best Specific risk factors include: Adverse impact on to deploy our core capabilities to position value of retail sites due ourselves in the changing automotive model Electrification of drivetrains.
e. g. capacity for fleet management services Connected cars and the associated increase and network infrastructure offerings.
Uncompetitive product in available data.
line up leads to a Initiatives to monetise data such as targeted Autonomous vehicles and or mobility solutions replacing long-term loss of sales.
marketing, predictive maintenance and vehicle ownership as the preferred model.
Loss of ability to own and OEM consolidation and disintermediation therefore monetise data.
Regular liaison with OEM partners to match in the value chain.
pipeline and product planning to emerging Long-term change in technologies and support demand.
vehicle ownership model may lead to changes in Understand the connectivity strategy of our the automotive value OEM partners and where we can help position chain including ourselves in the value chain.
Close monitoring of developments in industry and local market, including monitoring possible disruptors and likely timeframe for entry into the market.
Pilot of possible new partner technologies.
Impact: Likelihood: Failure to keep pace with changes in the digital economy impacts h High High on revenues and or OEM relations Technologies are continuing to develop that allow for Volume and margin are Digitalisation strategy driving investment real-time processing of vast amounts of data, and the adversely impacted.
in seamless, omni-channel brand experience development of networks connecting people, service and a best in class digital platform.
Adverse impact on value providers and appliances including vehicles.
of retail sites as demand Group and market level monitoring and The digitalisation of the customer journey, and growth of is fulfilled online.
management of social media presence.
online customer platforms, presents the opportunity to Reduced ability to drive Focus on data analysis to identify opportunities improve the customer offering, whilst at the same time demand margin as to monetise data.
presenting new risks around data protection, maintenance of online consumers are no Local use of the internet and social media as standards and customer engagement through, for example, longer geographically a communications channel for our customers.
dependent driving Digital platforms may also allow our brand partners to reach competitive price out to our customer base directly with consequences for our reductions.
Lower customer retention rates impact Aftersales profits.
2018 Update The Board has increased its assessment of the gross impact of this risk from medium to high as a reflection of the quickening pace of the digitalisation of the customer journey, and therefore of the velocity with which it needs to implement its response.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED MANAGED RISKS Risks over which we are able to exert considerable influence on the impact or likelihood of occurrence.
Description Impact Mitigating actions Trend Impact: Likelihood: Major loss or misappropriation of confidential or sensitive data g High Medium results in financial penalty and or reputational damage We hold, and process, a significant amount of data Impact on customer and Global Information Security policies and belonging to a range of stakeholders including our OEM or OEM relationship and procedures developed by IT Security Manager.
partners, our customers, our employees, and our suppliers.
Information assets defined and security controls Cyber-attacks are on the increase and data is an ever more Adverse financial impact benchmarked to ensure best practices.
Increasingly sophisticated attacks are as a result of civil or Global vulnerability and risk scanning in being perpetrated by a wide range of well-resourced criminal action.
place to enhance likelihood of early response threat actors.
A major cyber security incident, or data breach, which leads leads to impact on Cyber awareness training deployed to all relevant to a compromise or misuse of confidential, business critical financial performance staff globally.
or sensitive information could not only interrupt our business, fine or business Investment in advanced network threat detection but also lead to civil or criminal penalties and significant operations.
Physical and logical security measures control access to key infrastructure, and subject to regular penetration testing.
Encryption of valuable and sensitive data.
2018 Update A reference to misappropriation of data has been added to this risk to more clearly reflect the fact that there are two principal factors: loss of data due to human error, and theft of data by malicious actors.
Impact: Likelihood: Major cyber incident or other systems interruption impacts on ability to g Medium Low service customers and or operational efficiency Our business performance, and our ability to service our Business continuity Built-in resilience and security in place with active customers and our OEM partners, depends upon the ability interruption, leading monitoring for core systems.
of our systems to deliver a very high degree of operational to lost sales opportunity Minimum controls framework including manual reliability.
We have a diverse, and reasonably complex, IT and adverse back-ups in place.
landscape with multiple potential points of failure and must reputational impact.
SLA assurances and relevant accreditations from ensure that redundancies are built into our infrastructure to Loss, or compromise, major systems infrastructure providers.
enable continuity should there be a large-scale disruption.
of data crucial to business Business continuity plans in place in all markets.
Our iPower programme is intended to standardise and operation impacts the energise the core systems infrastructure that supports our efficiency of operation.
Close management of iPower implementations business and we must ensure that controls and processes and period of post implementation hyper care.
are maintained across all of our systems infrastructure whether iPower or legacy.
2018 Update The title of this risk has been updated to reflect that the most likely, and damaging, threat to systems continuity is a cyber incident perpetrated by malicious actors.
The balance of mitigating action has also been changed to address this.
42 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Description Impact Mitigating actions Trend Impact: Likelihood: Failure to safeguard our customers and g Medium Low employees by not consistently applying EH&S standards across the Group Inchcape employs more than 18,000 people across the Injury to customers, Local Health & Safety policies in place in all globe.
We are also responsible for the safety of significant employees or markets to comply with local legislation.
numbers of customers and visitors to our sites.
Qualified Health & Safety practitioners in major Our businesses are subject to a wide range of laws and Serious incident leading markets UK, Russia, Australia, Asia, Latam, regulations which vary significantly in stringency from to lost time.
country to country depending on the prevailing culture.
Basic training offered to all staff with more Our OEM partners also have their own health and safety advanced training for higher risk roles.
Personal sanctions for standards that they apply.
Clear ways of working displayed in prominent Wherever in the world they may happen, though, the areas in the higher risk areas e. g. workshops.
Damage to reputation consequences of failing to prevent accidents can lead to following injury to, or Health & Safety audits undertaken to confirm employee injury, business interruption, significant fines, death of, employees compliance with standards.
criminal consequences for directors and senior managers or customers.
Accidents, hazards and near misses and reputational damage.
monitored on a regular basis with corrective actions tracked.
Impact: Likelihood: Internal controls failure or fraud of sufficient scale to materially g Medium Medium affect financial performance or reputations Strong internal controls and processes underpin our Significant fraud with Minimum Controls Framework MCF sets an operations.
Without them we would fail to protect the value financial and reputational unambiguous global controls standard.
we create and undermine our growth potential.
Delegation of Authorities policy in place to ensure Significant error or that decisions are undertaken within approved financial misstatement.
Procedural breakdown Central internal controls team created to oversee with consequences for implementation and development of MCF.
efficiency and or business Clear management accountability for interruption.
Automation of control through iPower implementation including automated controls reduces the possibility of error or oversight.
Fraud and other major control incidents monitored by the Audit Committee.
Close monitoring of MCF compliance by Group Internal Audit.
2018 Update The Board added the risk of fraud to reflect the increasing level of identified incidents during the year.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Description Impact Mitigating actions Trend Impact: Likelihood: Failure to comply with laws or regulations leads to material financial h Medium Medium penalty or reputational damage The Group, and its businesses, are subject to a wide range Financial impact of fines Key appointments at Group level to help oversee of laws and regulations.
The consequences of a failure to comply with those laws and Regulatory intervention Head of Legal & Regulatory Compliance, Group regulations can vary from small fines, and orders to take leads to business Legal Counsel.
remedial actions, to significant financial consequences, interruption or other Creation of Group Legal Community to facilitate reputational damage and even imprisonment of directors inefficiencies.
Adverse reputational Nominated legal representative and or retained impact affecting brand counsel in major markets to monitor existing and partner relationships.
Code of Conduct refreshed to set out overarching standards of behaviour and compliance globally.
Local training programmes in place for relevant staff to raise awareness and confirm expectations.
Online legal compliance training solution to be implemented globally in 2019.
2018 Update During the year, we completed our preparations for the implementation of the European General Data Protections Regulations which became fully enforceable from 25 May 2018.
The Board has increased its assessment of the likelihood of this risk from low to medium to reflect the trend towards increasing regulatory pressure in the automotive industry, and also in recognition of our growing global footprint, particularly in emerging markets.
Impact: Likelihood: Failure to attract, retain and develop our people leading to knowledge g Medium Medium drain and operational inefficiency Inchcape employs over 18,000 people across 32 different Loss of core knowledge Global Talent Strategy to ensure resources are territories in various roles including Sales, Aftersales, and back and experience.
Business interruption or Talent review pipeline to maximise the value-add The fragmented nature of the automotive sector, coupled operational inefficiency.
with remuneration strategies that typically reward short-term Failure to deliver strategic Recruitment, induction and continuous performance, mean that the industry suffers from high objectives.
development policies in all markets.
turnover rates, especially in retail businesses.
These can Drive5 behaviours underpin exceed 30-35% per annum.
Our Ignite strategy, as well as the impact of disruptive trends Performance related pay structure calibrated and emerging technologies in the automotive industry, mean to incentivise and drive talent retention.
that the skills and capabilities needed to succeed are constantly changing.
Not having the right talent, and Key policies, procedures and other diversity, at all levels may compromise our ability to deliver documentation to facilitate handovers.
Restructuring where necessary to right-skill the business.
44 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INHERENT RISKS The Board recognises that there are some risks over which Inchcapes influence is somewhat limited, and the impact and likelihood of the risk are more heavily affected by external factors.
The Board ensures that, as far as possible, actions are taken to address these risks according to its risk appetite but recognises and accepts an inherent level of risk as a natural part of doing business.
Risk Comments Impact Likelihood Trend Significant retrenchment of Readily available, affordable credit is fundamental to our High Low credit available to customers, customers ability to buy, and to our and our dealers ability to g dealer network or Inchcape plc operate.
Whilst we have various local initiatives in place to help negatively impacts vehicle our customers and dealers access appropriate finance, we are sales and or operational also reliant on our banking and OEM partners to provide suitably capability attractive options.
Material damage to OEM As a Distributor and Retailer, our performance is correlated with High Low brand or product reputation, that of our OEM partners.
We work closely with them to foresee g or a major interruption to and address issues in our role as representative of their brand, OEM operations or product but ultimately, we have only very limited control over their supply negatively impacts performance.
Our brand diversity acts as a natural hedging vehicle sales strategy to further minimise this risk.
The Board has revised its definition of this risk to include damage to OEM or product reputation.
Fluctuations in exchange As a global organisation we accept the risk that outside normal Medium High rates with negative impact hedged transactions we are exposed to currency fluctuations.
g on financial performance These can be both positive and negative and our geographical diversity provides a certain amount of natural hedging.
Individual governments We regularly look for mitigating strategies including investment Medium Medium increasing restrictions opportunities in local businesses that can generate hard currency g on cross-border currency earnings or engaging with government and central banks to movements leading to higher ensure we receive our fair allocation of hard currency reserves.
incidents of trapped cash across the Group Social, political and regulatory We accept that in certain markets there is an enhanced risk of Low Medium instability leads to economic social, political and regulatory instability.
We recognise that there is g uncertainty, market interruption little we can do to prevent such risks, but instead ensure we have and or threat to safety plans in place to respond quickly and decisively if they do occur.
The scope of this risk has been widened by the Board to recognise the impact of economic uncertainty, reflective of the implications of Brexit.
Changes in legislation or the We accept that demand for vehicles is heavily impacted by Low High way that legislation is applied prevailing legislation.
There is little we can do to influence that g directly affects customer legislation in our favour.
Instead we implement processes to demand for certain vehicle foresee and prepare for its impact alongside our OEM partners, types or our ability to generate our geographic and OEM diversity also providing a natural hedge.
income from Aftersales The Board has widened the scope of this risk to include Aftersales legislation.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45
