Strategic Report Risk management and principal risks and uncertainties Responsible risk-taking for performance and growth As a growth-focused business, Informa takes measured risks.
the amount of risk we are prepared to take should These range from investing in new services and technologies be balanced with proportionate reward: and to acquiring and integrating new businesses into the Group.
our guiding principles determine our approach to risk tolerance, for example in areas of ethics and compliance.
To enable the Group to pursue commercial opportunities, Informas approach to risk management is to ensure that The Board encourages a culture of transparency and of acting significant risks are identified and understood, managed with integrity.
appropriately, and monitored and reported to the Companys governance bodies.
Risk governance Informas risk framework is designed to provide the Board with Our risk management approach is guided by the Boards Risk oversight of the most significant risks faced by the Group.
The Appetite and Tolerance Statement, which gives the direction that: Risk Committee and Audit Committee report independently to the Board, as do steering committees for major projects.
we should only take risks that help us to achieve our objectives: Risk management governance framework Governance Risk governance function Outputs Sets tone from the top Positions risk appetite and tolerance Board oversight Guidance and direction Challenges lines of defence Accounts to Shareholders Independently checks and challenges Audit Committee Audit and 1st and 2nd lines of defence Board reports 3rd line of defence Provides assurance to the Board Provides advice and guidance to the Group risk register 1st and 2nd lines of defence Risk Committee Principal risks Advises the Divisions and Board 2nd line of defence Audit and Board reports Accounts to Audit Committee Identifies and manages risks Divisions Receives guidance Divisional risk registers 1st line of defence Reports to Risk Committee 62 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key 2018 activity Market risk Health and safety incident Global trading may affect attendance at our exhibitions Significant discovery process to ensure that our health in certain sectors.
We continue to monitor developments, and safety management system encompasses all activities but currently see only minimal financial impacts.
Through the combination with UBM, the Group organises Consistent reporting metrics embedded across all regions.
exhibitions for the Fashion sector.
This market is seeing New security risk assessments and management guidance considerable change which presents both challenges was rolled out and new travel security training delivered and opportunities and we are refreshing our offering, to operations teams.
with greater focus on how best to serve customers.
In addition to internal training, the Health, Safety and Security team is exploring how we can work with other business partners to raise standards.
Examples included Acquisition and integration risk providing training to our venue provider and contractors Substantial due diligence and analysis on business in Egypt.
See page 59 for further information.
additions including UBM, and rigorous management and control of integration risk throughout 2018.
Major incident Impacts from severe weather events, including typhoons Ineffective change management in Asia and hurricanes and wildfires in the US, were As per page 57, we focused on combining talent, services managed in line with regional authority advice and and products while delivering business as usual across specialist advice from our Health, Safety and Security both companies.
Customers, colleagues and business partners were kept safe and financial impacts were negligible.
Technology failure, data loss and cyber breach Emergency response training rolled out to events teams Considerable focus on understanding the enlarged and at our premises.
A technology vulnerability assessment was developed, Inadequate regulatory compliance which supports risk-informed decision making for New training on anti-bribery and corruption to new joiners.
remediation of systems and platforms.
Training on new tax evasion law delivered to around 1,000 Privacy at work training was delivered across the Group targeted colleagues.
to inform colleagues on protection of systems and data.
Management training given to colleagues who deal with regulatory breaches.
Privacy regulation risk New data protection policies and guidance rolled out across the Group.
Through the governance channels and reporting process Risk management and the combination illustrated opposite, the Board monitors and reviews the Ineffective change risk is a principal risk to the Group as we effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems continue to expand, grow and change.
In this reporting year, the and issues guidance for the management of risk.
most significant change was the combination with UBM plc.
Risk management was applied throughout, and prior to recommending During 2018, the Group continued to foster a culture and process the acquisition to Shareholders, the due diligence process for responsible risk-taking.
We maintained continuous improvement identified the potential risks of the deal.
These were highlighted in risk management rigour, including developing statements of in the Shareholder prospectus and included: risk appetite and tolerance for each principal risk and enhancing monitoring and reporting through key risk indicators.
This work The management attention required to integrate the will continue in 2019 and it, along with the Groups risk framework, widened operations may detract from delivery of existing will be aligned to Informas expanded operating model.
business objectives: Delivery of commercial business as usual objectives The methodology for rating the magnitude of the financial was addressed by providing risk management training impacts of our risks was reviewed during the year and adjusted to the Global Exhibitions Senior Management team.
to reflect the increased financial scale of the enlarged Group.
The team learned and applied risk management practices to understand how the causes and impacts of risks to commercial objectives should be mitigated.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63 Strategic Report Risk management and principal risks and uncertainties continued Additional resource was brought in for critical roles Principal risks and uncertainties so that ongoing operations and the combination could Risks are identified and reported by the Divisions to the be delivered simultaneously.
Increased exposure to developing markets: We record the most important and frequent risks reported The expansion of the Informa Group brings greater by the Divisions on the Group risk register.
breadth to the business, increasing our exposure to both We also consider emerging risks at divisional and Group developing and developed markets.
Our increased scale levels throughout the year.
in developing markets is within our risk appetite as there We additionally recognise risks that only apply at Group level.
are growth and opportunity in these markets, which are The most significant of the Group-wide risks form our balanced by our business in developed markets.
risk is managed through our strategy, objectives and All principal risks are considered when we draw up severe regular planning meetings between the Executive but plausible scenarios that could impact the financial Management Team and the Divisions.
The methods and results of our Loss of Senior Management without adequate replacement: viability modelling are on page 75.
Changes to the Groups organisational structure were subject to multiple levels of review, and senior appointments There is a formal quarterly process to support risk recognition were approved by the combination steering committee.
We have a consistent way of categorising A formal selection process ensured that Senior Management our risks and a common approach to risk management Information roles and responsibilities were thoroughly planned for, and on the causes, impacts and mitigation of risks is captured appropriate skills are present in the enlarged Company.
through our risk registers and risk management system.
Actions are assigned and logged by the Divisions, and then monitored Throughout the combination, each significant area of change by the Risk Committee until closed out.
This gives us confidence has had a designated lead responsible for change delivery.
These that we have sufficient knowledge of relevant risks and a robust leads report to the Integration Management Office IMO, led by assessment of our principal risks.
our Group COO and Director of Strategy and Business Planning.
Critical issues, risks and dependencies are surfaced to the IMO Risk ratings and actions are owned and followed up until they are mitigated.
When we rate our risks, we consider the potential financial and non-financial impacts they could have, and the likelihood of Further governance for the combination has been provided them happening.
We use a consistent grid to help us compare through a dedicated steering committee, chaired by the and prioritise risks.
We rate our risks twice: Group COO who reports directly to the Board.
External consultants were engaged during the process to support The first rating gross risk rating is based on the potential due diligence, discovery and integration.
exposure if nothing is done to manage or mitigate the risk, to understand the importance of the risk and form a baseline.
The discovery period was focused on building our understanding of The second rating considers all the controls and mitigations the enlarged business.
This included consideration of risks within currently in place to either reduce the likelihood of the risk the business itself and risks arising from the combination work.
occurring, or to address the impact, or both.
This indicates the current status net risk rating.
Throughout the combination, colleague sentiment was also closely monitored.
A Pulse survey in January 2019 gauged our This approach allows us to consider whether risks are being colleagues feelings about the enlarged Group, which showed managed appropriately or whether additional actions should that over 75% of colleagues would recommend Informa as a be taken, according to our risk tolerance.
We review risk ratings regularly to consider whether the external As part of the combination, UBMs risks were reviewed and or internal landscapes have changed, or whether the controls in discussed by Senior Management from both companies and place are managing the risks to the previously recorded status.
the most significant risks were mapped and compared.
The Risk Committee is satisfied that all principal risks relating Relative net risk ratings of principal risks, to the combined Group are now captured through Informas and movement in risk ratings over 2018 risk framework.
Our principal risks relate directly to the delivery of our growth strategy, including the people, culture and operations that deliver it.
64 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Relative risk ratings of principal risks and movement in net risk ratings over 2018 7 8 6 4 1 2 11 3 9 12 5 An addition to the Group risk register was realisation of a pensions deficit position, relating to UBMs legacy 10 defined benefit pension scheme.
The current position is not significant to the combined Group and is therefore not reported as a principal risk.
The risk rating for Brexit was raised during the year as the Impact deadline for the UKs departure approached without clarity of outcome.
Based on a risk assessment of the most impactful, Key Risks related to growth no deal scenario, Brexit is not a principal risk to the Group.
Economic instability Risk related to growth 2.
Market risk The potential financial impacts are considered immaterial Risk related to people 3.
Acquisition and integration risk due to the diversified international nature of our business 4.
Ineffective change management Risk related to culture 5.
Reliance on key counterparties and a low reliance on cross EU UK border goods movements 6.
Technology failure to deliver our services and products.
Data loss and cyber breach in the year Risks related to people Increased during the year Risk assessments have taken place across the Group at 8.
Inability to attract and retain key talent divisional and functional levels, informing more detailed 9.
Where Brexit risks exist, we have put actions in place to minimise interruptions to our business, Risks related to culture 11.
Inadequate regulatory compliance including areas such as the physical supply of our books to 12.
Privacy regulation risk customers in the EU, and planning for logistical and travel challenges for events close to the proposed exit day.
Changes during the year Consideration of other risks Where changes have occurred to the net mitigated risk ratings Informa keeps a range of risks under review.
Amongst those of principal risks, during 2018, these are explained on pages 66 not considered principal risks to the Group are tax compliance to 72 under the relevant risk.
risk, climate change and currency fluctuation.
In 2018, we recognised that the threat of geopolitical risk Informa is a responsible taxpayer.
The Group takes a principled raised the potential for increased economic instability.
and low risk approach which limits the likelihood of disputes The net rating at the end of the year was unchanged, as with tax authorities and makes unexpected material tax no material impacts or any increased likelihood existed.
This will remain under close monitoring.
Climate change is not viewed as a principal risk for the Group, We considered whether the net ratings for acquisition and although severe weather events are recognised as one factor integration risk and ineffective change management should in the risk of major incident on page 71. be raised but believe that our management of these risks and continuous scrutiny have kept the net ratings stable.
Informas impact on the environment is relatively small and largely related to routine energy consumption at our premises, The net risk of health and safety incidents has been the use of paper in products in the supply chain, and business raised to acknowledge that we are currently embedding travel by colleagues and customers to Informas exhibitions and a consistent process across the enlarged Group.
Informa seeks to minimise impacts through initiatives for further information.
detailed in the separate Sustainability Report.
We have also raised the rating of inability to attract and retain The Group Treasury team continues to manage the risk of key talent, recognising that when two companies of scale currency fluctuation, particularly in the relative value of sterling combine, there is a heightened risk of voluntary departures.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 Likelihood Strategic Report Risk management and principal risks and uncertainties continued 1.
Economic instability Relevance to Informa 2018: no movement in net risk rating When economies decline, our customers may retract Has the potential to cause material financial impact their budgets and choose not to exhibit or travel.
Is modelled for the Viability Statement Changing patterns in global trading may impact specific Oversight: Group Finance Director sectors and affect demand for related industry exhibitions and conferences.
Impact A global economic downturn could affect the Groups ability A negative impact on the Groups ability to grow, whether in to deliver growth in the near term.
However, it could also particular geographies, verticals or overall.
present an opportunity to acquire businesses at a lower Potential to weaken brands and value over time, leading to cost and lay the foundation for long-term growth.
reputational damage and impairing ability to raise funding.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can have both negative and positive effects.
Mitigating activities Informa has an international customer base, selling into around 170 countries, which dilutes the effect of downturns in specific geographies.
We provide the worlds leading exhibitions for certain industry sectors which drive our customers order books, so even in economic downturns, attendance remains relatively stable.
The breadth of the Groups portfolio by verticals, products and customer types also mitigates the impact of downturns in particular markets.
Many of our content and data products are subscription-based, making revenue more predictable.
Exhibition revenue is often contracted well in advance of the event.
Credit exposure is minimised through advance payments, particularly for exhibition stands, and through credit control activities.
Economic risk and opportunity are considered in the three-year planning process overseen by the Group Finance Director.
The annual budgets that result from the planning process are a control, against which results are monitored through the monthly reporting process.
This surfaces any effects of economic instability and informs commercial decision making.
Movements in currency can have positive and negative impacts on the Groups reported earnings.
This is managed through hedging currency fluctuations so that our net debt profile is proportionate to our exposure to currency fluctuations in EBITDA.
Geopolitical volatility increases the likelihood of economic instability: however, our overall net rating remained stable at the end of 2018.
66 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2.
Market risk Relevance to Informa 2018: no movement in net risk rating The markets which we serve experience growth and Has the potential to cause material financial impact decline, and, in some sectors, disruption.
We may not be Is modelled for the Viability Statement able to innovate at a pace that ensures that our products, Oversight: Executive Management Team services and brands remain relevant or we may lose custom to our competitors.
Markets can be disrupted, for example fashion producers Impact selling directly to purchasers online.
If market risk is not addressed through strategy, investment, Group strategy is informed by customer demand and development and innovation, products and services could be feedback.
Wider market, strategic and investment decisions perceived as less valuable, with revenues and margins eroded are made with due consideration of market risk.
and some products or services becoming obsolete.
Mitigating activities Market developments are thoroughly considered in decision making.
They are addressed at strategic levels and through market research into businesses and products operating in similar spaces.
Acquisitions are considered for their portfolio fit for the markets we serve.
The enlarged Group now operates in the Fashion & Jewellery sector and has a larger exposure to emerging markets.
Fashion is undergoing transformation as a sector, and we have launched the Fashion GAP programme to determine how we can enhance our products and customer experience, and drive the ongoing relevance of our portfolio.
The Executive Management Team oversees market risk by conducting regular people, planning and product-focused meetings with each Division, typically on a quarterly basis.
Market risk is also regularly addressed by the Board and addressed as part of Informas three-year planning cycle, with these plans formally presented to the Board.
Acquisition and integration risk Relevance to Informa 2018: no movement in net risk rating Growth through targeted acquisition is one part of the Has the potential to cause material financial impact Groups strategy and a way to seize opportunities that Not modelled for the Viability Statement will create benefits for our stakeholders.
The most Oversight: Board recent scale addition was UBM in June 2018.
As well as organic growth, Informas growth strategy Impact includes the acquisition of businesses in target verticals Acquisitions could deliver lower than expected return on and markets.
The Group is prepared to take reasonable investment, diminished growth, weaker acquired brand risks to acquire new assets, talent, capabilities, products, assets, increased risk and inconsistent corporate culture.
Poor acquisitions may also lead to impairment charges and the inability to obtain future funding.
Mitigating activities Informa actively monitors the market and engages with relevant parties to identify suitable acquisition targets.
These are then assessed to see if they form an attractive strategic and cultural fit.
Investment decisions are made according to set financial parameters and capital is allocated to the markets and Divisions in order to maximise long-term value creation.
This process is led by the Director of Strategy and Business Planning.
Capital allocation for acquisitions is determined at Group level.
Targets are analysed by the Corporate Development team, and a cross functional team of experts supports the commercial leads through due diligence prior to acquisition.
Integration plans are developed at Division level with support and oversight from the Group.
All acquisitions have formal governance, leadership and project management to deliver integration, with significant acquisitions receiving greater Grouplevel governance.
In the case of UBM, additional resources were brought in to support delivering business as usual while key colleagues focused on the integration.
An annual review is reported to the Board on post-acquisition performance, including an assessment of any variation to the expected return on investment.
Progress on all acquisitions is also reported to the Board regularly throughout the year, with commensurately more detail for significant acquisitions.
See the section on risk management and the combination on page 63 for more information on Informa and UBM.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 67 Strategic Report Risk management and principal risks and uncertainties continued 4.
Ineffective change management Relevance to Informa 2018: no movement in net risk rating Culturally, Informa adopts an agile business approach The potential to cause material financial impact is considered low and pursues development and change in order to grow, Not modelled for the Viability Statement innovate and respond to new challenges and opportunities.
Oversight: Executive Management Team The breadth and pace of change can present strategic and operational hurdles.
Impact Bringing together new and different business cultures also Change, if not managed effectively, could result in unrealised presents risk.
opportunities, poor project delivery, colleague turnover, erosion of value and failure to deliver growth.
Growth requires change, and ineffective change management may produce a lag on growth.
Acquisitions may introduce cultures that are not aligned with Informas culture of support and inclusion.
This could result in behaviours that undermine and degrade performance and strategic direction.
Mitigating activities Informas large-scale investment programmes and acquisitions adopt common programme and change management disciplines, with defined governance and reporting structures in place.
The Executive Management Team oversees, and independently or collectively sponsors, key investment initiatives across Informa.
A team of programme directors and change delivery experts is deployed on core strategic projects.
The stability in key leadership roles allows a culture of continuous learning and improvement.
Where appropriate, we adapt reward structures to incentivise successful delivery of in-year or multi-year strategic programmes.
The Risk Committee acts as the overseer of the risk landscape with the authority to map risk profiles of large change initiatives, and raise attention to areas of concern.
Reliance on key counterparties Relevance to Informa 2018: no movement in net risk rating In certain conditions, markets and geographies, we rely The potential to cause material financial impact is considered low on key strategic partners who enable the delivery of our Not modelled for the Viability Statement business objectives.
Oversight: Risk Committee Where we are dependent on key counterparties for critical business delivery, these relationships are Impact identified and monitored.
If key counterparties fail, there could be serious disruption to Key relationships, services and venues could negatively certain business activities, resulting in lower levels of trading affect the Groups ability to generate and deliver value, and revenues, and a decline in customer satisfaction.
or impact our operations if they fail.
Mitigating activities The Group diversifies its reliance on key counterparties wherever possible and has a Treasury Policy to ensure the Company is not over-reliant on a particular financing partner.
Each Division is required to identify key counterparties, explain the nature and extent of their exposure to them, and report on activities in place to mitigate specific exposures to the Risk Committee when requested.
Mitigations include requiring counterparties to have robust and tested business continuity plans in place: service level agreements: contracts: proactive relationship management: and ensuring suppliers are paid on time so that services are not suspended.
For Brexit planning, we are working with relevant business partners to ensure we can build resilience in areas where we may be impacted.
For example, we have drawn up plans with the printers of our books to ensure continuity of supply.
68 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 6.
Technology failure Relevance to Informa 2018: no movement in net risk rating The Group relies on technology to make and deliver The potential to cause material financial impact is considered low products and services, engage with customers and pay Not modelled for the Viability Statement suppliers.
This dependency is recognised in the risk of Oversight: Risk Committee a major technology failure.
Technology underpins all the Groups business activity, Impact and enables future scale and innovation.
A prolonged loss of critical systems networks or similar services could inhibit our ability to deliver events, products and services, increase costs, result in poor customer experience and negatively impact the Groups reputation.
Mitigating activities Informa has a Group-wide strategy to deploy cloud computing, due to its benefits in building resilience into our products and services and in providing the foundations for scalable solutions.
To support this Cloud First strategy, technology service providers are assessed and selected on their capability to deliver the required service reducing the risk of downtime.
Colleagues can utilise secure cloud desktop services, facilitating mobility and flexibility.
We continue to invest in backup and recovery technology and controls to mitigate the risk of data loss and extended unavailability of key systems.
The Group continues to reduce complexity and on-premise physical infrastructure.
The combination of Informas and UBMs systems and platforms is underway: a complex process that is prioritised and programmed through a defined roadmap, monitored by the Combination Integration Management Office and Executive Management Team.
Data loss and cyber breach Relevance to Informa 2018: no movement in net risk rating This risk encompasses major security breaches, and The potential to cause material financial impact is considered low any resulting loss of sensitive or valuable data, content Not modelled for the Viability Statement or intellectual property.
Oversight: Risk Committee There could be significant reputational damage if this risk materialises and is not handled in line with Impact stakeholders expectations.
Loss of sensitive data through mismanagement, theft, cyber crime The business and delivery of strategic objectives relies or security breaches could lead to losses for our stakeholders, and on data.
If a significant loss materialised, this would investigations, fines and business interruption.
If handled poorly, distract from our strategic goals through excessive reputational damage could also result.
demands on management time to respond to the loss.
Mitigating activities The risk from criminal cyber activity continues to grow and attempts to attack and disrupt businesses are more common and widespread.
To address the risk to key systems we continue to invest in information security countermeasures, controls and expertise.
A Group Chief Information Security Officer has been appointed to provide Group-wide leadership and governance, and drive information security strategy and tactical initiatives.
Informa takes the security and privacy of Company, colleague and customer data seriously and employs a defence-in-depth approach, comprising administrative, technical and physical controls aligned with industry good practice to protect the confidentiality, availability and integrity of key systems.
Our information security awareness programme supports an information security culture across the Group.
Internal and external assurance programmes formally report the Groups compliance with Informa policies, standards and controls to the Audit Committee, Risk Committee and Executive Management Team.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 69 Strategic Report Risk management and principal risks and uncertainties continued 8.
Inability to attract and retain key talent Relevance to Informa 2018: net risk rating increased The Company is dependent on appropriately skilled talent The potential to cause material financial impact is considered low to deliver its products and services.
The inability to attract, Not modelled for the Viability Statement recruit and retain colleagues, and inadequate succession Oversight: Executive Management Team planning at Senior Management levels, would erode the Companys performance.
Impact Our colleagues create and deliver products and services A talent shortage could lead to an increased turnover of to our customers, and the innovation and operational colleagues with an associated rise in costs: loss of knowledge: execution necessary for future growth.
decreased efficiency: and a demotivated workforce with the associated lag on productivity and erosion of corporate value.
Mitigating activities During the year, the Companys depth of talent expanded with over 3,000 colleagues joining from UBM.
Colleague engagement is evaluated at least annually, attrition is tracked through the year and leavers are surveyed to understand root causes.
These insights are drawn together to understand underlying themes and to inform corrective action where it is necessary.
The Executive Management Team and Board review the depth of talent across Informa and the short and longer-term succession plans for critical roles.
Informa redesigned and invested in the global HR function during 2018.
Specialist roles were created with expertise in reward, learning and development, recruitment and business partnering.
The model and resource allocation placed our HR specialists closest to our colleagues and communities.
The newly created role of Group HR Director is part of the Executive Management Team and sits on the Risk Committee.
Although attrition is inevitable, the Company seeks to protect the business through appropriate post-termination restrictions for colleagues in business-critical roles.
70 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 9.
Health and safety incident Relevance to Informa 2018: net risk rating increased Good standards of health, safety and security are of The potential to cause material financial impact is considered low primary importance.
Not modelled for the Viability Statement Informa takes the welfare of its colleagues, customers Oversight: Risk Committee and business partners seriously and expects to operate in safe and healthy conditions.
This approach underpins Impact how we deliver our events, engage with venues and A major health and safety incident has the potential to cause manage our premises.
life-changing injuries and, at worst, fatalities.
Mismanagement A serious failure in this area could undermine Informas of health and safety can also result in reputational damage, reputation as a leading and trusted business and organiser investigations, fines and multiple claims for damages.
Mitigating activities Informas health and safety policies set out clear guidance on required standards across all areas of the Group.
To set the tone and direction, the Board has issued a Health and Safety Risk Appetite and Tolerance Statement, asserting that the welfare of colleagues, customers and business partners is of primary importance and that anyone may raise health and safety concerns without any fear of reprisal.
The Health and Safety function is focused on embedding consistent standards and approaches across the combined Group.
Quarterly reports are made to the Risk Committee, and during the year we introduced a reporting dashboard which gives the Committee a good understanding of the status of health and safety developments and training.
Near-misses and incidents at our events and premises are reported to the Risk Committee.
We audit events and premises, and monitor required actions until they are completed.
A Group-wide travel management system allows us to book accommodation and travel that meet acceptable safety standards, and to know where colleagues are in the event of an emergency.
We have established a skilled team of health and safety experts who are regionally based.
They support our operations teams in embedding high, consistent standards.
We have raised the net risk rating to reflect that we are in the process of embedding consistent standards across the enlarged Group.
Major incident Relevance to Informa 2018: no movement The nature of our global events businesses requires us to Has the potential to cause material financial impact organise large volumes of people all over the world, so there Modelled for the Viability Statement is inherent potential to be impacted by major incidents.
Oversight: Risk Committee We also operate in some countries where the infrastructure and ability to respond to major incidents can be limited.
Impact Major incidents have the potential to cause harm and injury to people, venues and premises and severely interrupt business.
If the Groups response to a major incident is inadequate, this could result in additional reputational damage.
Mitigating activities We consider extreme weather events in the planning of event schedules.
In 2018, some events and premises were disrupted by extreme weather.
Our response is always to put the safety of people first, and this resulted in the evacuation of homes and offices in California and a one-day closure of an event.
The Group also considers terrorism threats, proximity to likely terrorist targets, and potential unrest or protests in event planning.
We apply defined security risk assessments for high risk operations so that appropriate additional security measures can be taken to protect customers, colleagues and business partners.
A key initiative of the Health, Safety and Security team in 2018 was to embed our emergency response planning, with training rolled out across our combined Group for events and premises teams.
The team provides support and advice in the event of an emergency and, in severe circumstances, a dedicated Crisis Council would convene to direct our response.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 71 Strategic Report Risk management and principal risks and uncertainties continued Relevance to Informa 11.
Inadequate regulatory compliance We have a commitment to ethical and lawful behaviour.
2018: no movement in net risk rating Where regulations are mandatory, we expect full compliance.
The potential to cause material financial impact is considered low Not modelled for the Viability Statement The Groups licence to operate and grow is in part Oversight: Risk Committee determined by compliance with national and international regulation and the support of stakeholders.
This includes customers, colleagues and Shareholders, who increasingly Impact favour companies that work in an ethical way.
Failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to fines, imprisonment, reputational damage and the inability to trade in certain jurisdictions.
Mitigating activities Through the Groups compliance programme, Informa aims to comply with all applicable regulations.
The Group also supports a culture of transparency, integrity and respect, which ensures individual behaviours align with corporate policy.
A review of UBMs policies revealed a very similar approach, and during 2019 we will publish refreshed codes and policies across the enlarged Group.
During 2018, we continued to deliver compliance training to new joiners during the year, including Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Corruption training.
New starters receive these training modules promptly and are required to accept our core policies, including Acceptable Use of Technology and Information Security standards.
Our compliance programme is structured to meet our obligations under material legislation and we monitor our status to ensure continuous improvement.
Our Code of Conduct and Business Partner Code of Conduct together set out the behaviour we expect of all colleagues and business partners.
We provide speak-up facilities, including a confidential hotline, to encourage both internal and external users to raise any concerns.
Our policies make it clear that all issues reported are investigated promptly and that retaliation for raising genuine concerns is not tolerated.
Privacy regulation risk We rely on data to produce and market our products and 2018: no movement in net risk rating services.
An inability to comply with the diverse tightening The potential to cause material financial impact is considered low and growing global privacy legislation may limit our access Not modelled for the Viability Statement to, and use of, data.
Oversight: Risk Committee Compliance with privacy regulations will influence marketing strategies and, therefore, the acquisition of Impact new customers.
Over-compliance with privacy regulations, The potential impacts include changes to operations to comply such as applying the strictest rules globally, could result in with regulations, and changes to the way the Company can commercial disadvantage.
market its products, services and events.
Non-compliance can result in significant fines with associated customer dissatisfaction and reputational damage.
Mitigating activities There is a global trend towards tightening privacy laws: the most significant to affect the Group was the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, which came into force in May 2018.
There were also changes to data compliance in Australia, Canada, Asia-Pacific and the US.
This trend has a broad impact on the Group, from how we address privacy compliance to how we adapt marketing strategies to ensure successful business operations under tighter regulations.
During 2018, we continued to focus on GDPR compliance, implementing a privacy framework along with policies and guidance in key areas.
This included updating terms and conditions with suppliers, web-based training to all colleagues, updated Customer Privacy Policies on our websites and new rights management processes.
We have a Group Data Protection Officer to lead data privacy compliance, along with divisional Privacy Managers who work with the Divisions to embed the standards into the business operations.
A Data Protection Management Forum was established to support and oversee privacy compliance initiatives.
We continue to monitor external factors to provide guidance and support to the Group and consider operational impacts.
