Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Risk management 53 The Board regularly, and as part of the year Principal risks In accordance with the provisions of the UK end process, reviews the Groups principal risks The Group faces a number of risks that may Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Board and the actions being taken to mitigate those adversely affect our strategic and business has taken into consideration the principal risks risks.
As part of the Long Range Business Plan objectives, operations, liquidity, financial in the context of determining whether to adopt and the risk management process, the Board position, reputation or future performance, the going concern basis of accounting and will determine the level of risk carried and the not all of which are wholly within our control when assessing the prospects of the Company extent of mitigating activity required to deliver or known to us.
Some such risks may currently for the purpose of preparing the Viability an acceptable level of risk.
The Board defines be regarded as immaterial and could turn Statement which can be found on page 59. the risk governance framework and sets the out to be material.
Some risks are external The Going Concern statement is provided overall risk strategy and the Audit Committee so we can only reduce the potential impact, on page 103 in the Directors Report.
reviews the risk management framework and the while other risks can be mitigated by reducing Our principal risks are discussed on the effectiveness of internal controls particularly both probability and impact.
We accept next few pages and are as summarised in the with regard to financial controls.
This includes that risk is an inherent part of doing business.
Preliminary Results Statement distributed on reviewing the internal audit programme and We manage the risks based on a balance of 7 March 2019.
These have been subject to robust related reports to ensure that all key mitigating risk and reward determined through careful assessment and review.
This summary, however, controls are being periodically reviewed assessment of both the potential probability is not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of and where issues are identified that they and impact as well as risk appetite.
Risk appetite all risks and uncertainties affecting our business are being addressed on a timely basis.
is considered as part of the compilation of and are not listed in any order of priority.
Assurance on broader risk controls is provided business cases, annual business plan and by a combination of internal management budget and long range business plan.
In identifying the principal risks we have information, internal audits, external audits There will be a balance of risk and opportunity disclosed those risks that we currently consider and Board oversight.
There is also an externally considered as we take our investment decisions.
to be the most significant to the Group at the supported whistleblowing facility.
We consider reputational as well as financial date of this Annual Report.
The principal risks impact, recognising the value attributable to have been updated compared to last year.
The management of risk is embedded in our brand.
The Group faces a number of ongoing A new Risk Workshop with the Executive team our everyday business activities and culture, operational risks including damage to satellites has resulted in an updated list of principal risks with all our employees and contractors and ground network operations, litigation, that better describe our risk profile.
While the having an important role to play.
The diligence credit and foreign exchange risk and the risks risk list has changed, the risk profile has not applied by our workforce to consider risk is associated with dealing with tax authorities in changed materially.
The risk trend for each reflected in business cases which are submitted multiple jurisdictions.
The importance of these principal risk as compared to a year ago has for approval by management and the Board.
risks will vary over time and will be kept under been assessed as either stable, increasing or Ongoing projects have risks reported on constant review.
Although many of the risks reducing in size, measured in both net impact and a regular basis.
influencing our performance are macroeconomic net probability.
The principal risks are identified and likely to affect the performance of over the next few pages and we have indicated businesses generally, others are specific against each risk how it principally relates to to our operations in mobile satellite our strategic objectives, noting that all risks communications services.
will impact the strategy to some extent.
Principal risks and uncertainties We show against each risk how it links to our strategy see page 14 and the movement of each risk during the year.
Strategic priorities Movement 1 2 3 4 5 Increased Capture the Reposition Establish our Create a Transform No change maximum number L-band for digital platform high-performing our operating Decreased of broadband new growth and business organisation environment platforms Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 1.
Event leads There has been a few events like this in the We build a broad business portfolio and ensure to sharp reduction last twenty years, e. g. 9 11, SARS, the ash cloud.
the company is financially robust and resilient of air traffic Similar events in the future could reduce air traffic to any sudden sharp downturn in any one of volumes sharply, which could in turn impact our our markets.
Our customers may ask us to cancel We will take all possible actions to continue 1 or halt ongoing contracts and it could be to deliver on existing contracts, to the extent difficult to sign new contracts.
54 Strategic Report | Risk management Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management continued Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 2.
Geo-political risk, Downturns in the economy of a country and or We ensure the Company is financially robust political uncertainty the world economy, trade wars, as well as very low and resilient to economic downturns and operating including Brexit or very high oil prices could all have large effects a diversified portfolio supports our resiliency.
impact on world trade and consequently impact our We continuously review and adapt our strategy in business and strategy.
Link to strategy: reaction to developing political or economic situations.
Armed conflicts, including war in space could also We assess and manage new risks such as changes 1 2 3 4 5 have an impact, locally and globally.
We may suffer in government, epidemics, natural disasters, etc.
a terrorist attack or a natural disaster on one of that potentially could impact our people and business.
our ground network or office locations.
Inmarsats Brexit committee analyses the impact of We do a large amount of business with governments the UK Brexit including no-deal scenarios and deploys across the globe.
Political uncertainty with policy strategies to minimise possible impact.
changes, decisions and sanctions could impact The United Kingdom leaving the European Union is not our business.
expected to have a significant financial impact on the We could fail to comply with applicable international Group as the majority of revenue, capital expenditure and legislation and international reporting requirements.
long-term borrowings are based outside of Continental Our staff and their families may suffer a local Europe and are denominated in US Dollars reducing epidemic or global pandemic.
our exposure to a weakening Sterling.
Brexit negotiations outcomes including a no-deal exit could have some impact.
This risk has increased in 2018 because of uncertainties in trade and Brexit negotiation outcomes.
Competition We may fail to optimally assess our market, We monitor technology, competitor and technology disruption, technological changes, customer requirements, market developments.
new entrants and capacity needs and competitors strategy and We develop a broad portfolio of products and services different business therefore fail to exploit market opportunities.
to address customer requirements and opportunities plans We may fail to effectively address the significant in several markets.
This makes us more resilient to Link to strategy: changes going on in the industry, e. g. price and adverse developments.
capacity, plus a greater focus on digital enablement.
We rely on a close relationship between our 1 2 3 We may develop next generation broadband customer-facing BUs, our operations team who deal services that will not meet these market opportunities directly with operating new products and services or fail to meet customer requirements or capacity and the engineering and product teams.
needs, or these developments could have delays We have well-established relationships with partners or cost overruns impacting on our market position, and signed significant strategic alliance agreements.
revenue or returns on investment.
We work closely with our partners to ensure our services, Competitors and new entrants may launch technology and capacity can meet the demand from our disruptive technology, or new business plans with, existing and new customers.
We invest in new satellites for example, connectivity at very low prices or for free.
to meet customer capacity demands.
We adapt our Our competitors may consolidate which may impact product and services portfolio to address technological our competitive position.
We seek to identify new customers and to migrate existing customers who would benefit from We may fail to roll out new services including our new services.
migrating existing customers, which could be due to upgrade costs, or our developments We have professional, experienced teams who could have delays or cost overruns.
focus on large scale programmes and we develop close relationships with third parties we use to deliver them.
Our competitors may provide better products to the market and at more competitive prices.
We critically review our detailed business cases before we proceed and regularly assess our progress against the original business cases.
We thoroughly review and approve major development of new services or technology.
All significant product and service developments are subject to approval and regular programme reviews to identify critical issues, changes, delivery delays and resolutions, and projected cost against budget.
We are able to prioritise investment activity to focus on new requirements if this is felt appropriate.
We seek to identify and improve the functionality in existing products.
Inmarsat has formed a new division which concentrates on product life cycle management and the innovation and development of new differentiating products and services.
This Product Group brings together all product development activities to ensure a clear focus on identifying and delivering an effective product strategy.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Risk management 55 Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 3.
Competition We may fail to develop competitive technology We establish the necessary focused sales and technology disruption, and product roadmaps, competitive pricing, marketing capability to effectively deliver good new entrants and to differentiate ourselves, to obtain applicable business opportunities for Inmarsat and its partners.
different business licences or fail to deliver on or have delays in We focus on digital offerings as an additional plans continued our contracts.
We are reviewing market We may fail to enable or incentivise our distribution opportunities, for example IoT and Big Data, to create Link to strategy: partners enough so they choose to sell our new business streams.
We are investing in digital 1 2 3 competitors products instead.
services and in differentiated platform and service offerings designed to provide both additional The risk has increased since a year ago due value to our customers and enhance our to increased competition and fast moving customer relationships.
We improve the robustness and resilience of our systems and processes by systematic continuous work to improve and document existing processes.
Our systems need to be agile to be able to respond to any changing needs and having open network systems enables this agility by us and our wider partners.
Not enough We may fail to keep up with the developing We liaise closely with third parties across our network capacity business needs of our existing and new customers.
ecosystem to review requirements and then plan We may fail to optimally assess our market, our delivery against these.
Link to strategy: technological changes, customer requirements Internal approval processes include assessment 1 2 and competitors strategy, so we have not enough of available network capacity to serve specific capacity to meet the demands.
We may not be customer needs.
able to meet capacity needs for various reasons Business units provide pipeline assessment to allow such as network or satellite issues, or technological future capacity assessments to be performed.
The difficulties which would impact our ability to capacity requirements are compared to the current generate revenues.
infrastructure and any predicted unmet demand is used to specify future infrastructure needs.
GX5, a new Ka-band broadband satellite, is planned to be launched Q4 2019 and will provide additional capacity over Europe and the Middle East.
This will be followed by Inmarsat-6 F1 and F2 that will provide additional L-band and Ka-band capacity in the early 2020s.
In certain geographies, we are able to acquire 3rd party capacity to augment our own networks in a seamless manner.
Major operational We face risks when our satellites are in orbit.
We build in a high degree of redundancy in our satellites, failure Our satellites, our control of them or our network constellations and ground network, providing a high may fail technically or be sabotaged.
Our network level of protection against single points of failure.
All Link to strategy: may not be able to cope with the demand from users.
customer-facing systems are monitored continuously 1 2 3 5 Elements of our ground network may fail or be by sophisticated systems and highly skilled staff who damaged, which may affect our ability to provide are equipped to respond to operational emergencies.
services to our partners and customers.
We buy insurance to compensate for the financial Our network may suffer a cyberattack that loss in the event a satellite or ground network element damages our service offering and reputation.
If our service is interrupted, it may cause physical We have disaster recovery plans for satellite and and financial damage with possible legal and network operations which are regularly tested to financial consequences for our business.
The risk has decreased since a year ago because We are focused on ensuring our systems operate with of strengthened resilience in our satellites and a high degree of cyber security protection which is ground network.
covered below in a separate risk.
We are careful in avoiding taking on consequential damages in our contracts.
56 Strategic Report | Risk management Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management continued Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 6.
Satellite We face risks when we launch our satellites.
The risk is reduced by the continued successful launch failure There are only a few satellite launch companies cooperation between our space engineering team, and if they encounter problems, our launch risk satellite manufacturers and launch companies.
Link to strategy: may increase.
We deploy an experienced team to prepare 1 2 The risk has increased since there were no satellite for satellite launches.
launches in 2018 but in 2019 we plan to launch We buy insurance to compensate for the financial our GX5 satellite.
loss in the event a satellite launch failure.
Protectionism Growing protectionism including policy changes, We continuously review and adapt our strategy affects our business sanctions and trade wars could impact our business, in reaction to developing political or economic operations including our supply chain and our ability to carry situations.
We assess and manage new risks from out installations.
We provide our services to many political decisions including protectionism that Link to strategy: government organisations around the world which potentially could impact our business.
1 2 3 4 5 may have conflicting requirements, and our revenue Inmarsat Government operates with a proxy board may be affected by governments reduction in to allow it to manage its business in accordance spending and their other political priorities.
With with U. S. requirements and compete effectively rising protectionism, we must especially maintain for U. S. Government business.
our ability to do business with governments worldwide via relationships with them.
This risk has increased due to global political changes occuring.
Security risk We may suffer damage to satellites, networks, We maintain industry-standard security measures, information data, systems, processes and our and have increased our investment in state-of-the-art Link to strategy: services to customers as a result of malicious cyber countermeasures and enhanced cyber security 1 2 3 4 5 or flawed code, unauthorised access, service operations to improve detection and response to denial ransom coercion, or security compromise.
We achieved ISO 27001 Certification There is also a significant risk of aggregated in Q4 2018 and we have now initiated a continuous minor risks having an impact on service delivery.
improvement programme, the progress of which will Data or IP could be stolen.
This could also be independently assessed.
We have completed have consequential impact on our reputation, risk assessments on information assets across the business plans and operations, and future Group, and as a consequence, we are deploying revenue from risk averse customers markets.
Through the OneIT project we are building a modern computer infrastructure that enhances protection of critical assets and data.
We have ensured our processes are compliant with the GDPR legislation.
We have improved our incident response capability.
We have disaster recovery and business continuity plans for important elements of our networks: and these contingency plans are tested regularly.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Risk management 57 Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 9.
Loss of or We rely on our distribution channel for part of We build strong relationships with all our partners failed customer our revenue and they might not sell our services and provide them with excellent services to sell in or supplier effectively or competitively.
We have critical their markets.
We encourage sharing of information GX and FX contracts which require careful and developing ideas through direct meetings with Link to strategy: management to ensure successful execution.
our partners and through our regional and global 1 2 3 We may not meet customer needs with some conferences.
We continuously review and refine our declining legacy products.
pricing, overall offering and terms with our partners.
We provide our services to many government We monitor market and partner developments and organisations around the world which may have adjust our strategy to mitigate negative developments conflicting requirements, and our revenue may be as well as to explore opportunities.
affected by governments reduction in spending We continue to improve the reliability of our and their other political priorities.
We may lose satellites and services which are critical to our end customers due to poor quality service delivery users.
We have simplified our standard contracts and or operations, or fail to keep up with the business pricing in order to make it easier to do business with us.
We may fail to roll out new We promote fair play in our distribution channel and services including migrating existing customers.
will not promote customer churn.
We introduce new A competitor may buy a critical supplier or partner.
services with common technologies and develop Partners may merge or grow and as a result more competitive pricing strategies.
We continue outcompete smaller partners.
Partners may prefer to broaden our customer base through sales selling our competitors services due to better strategies and new service offerings.
We work closely with our suppliers to review programme We rely on a limited number of third party suppliers plans, delivery quality and timing to ensure that they and partners in the production of our satellites, meet our requirements.
We have a highly experienced launch providers systems, terminals and products quality assurance team at satellite manufacturing and we may have limited control over availability, sites to check design and production activities and quality and delivery of these goods.
A satellite also at launch sites ahead of our satellite launches.
manufacturer or a supplier to the satellite The Group Procurement departments reviews and manufacturer, may fail or have serious damage to actions reduce the risk, for example exploring dual a production facility that delays the delivery of our sourcing and assessing suppliers quality, technical satellite.
A satellite launch provider may additionally know-how and financial viability.
have a launch failure which affects the timing of our We can operate in an agile way to seek new satellite planned launches.
A competitor may buy a critical launch providers if required, as we did to secure supplier or partner.
A critical supplier may fail an alternative provider for the delayed S-band financially or one of their systems may fail.
Relying on some critical customers may increase We have an effective credit management process our financial exposure if they fail to make payments in place, assessing the credit risk of new and for our services.
Spectrum, We rely on radio spectrum, which has historically We regularly improve the efficiency of our spectrum orbital slots and been allocated without charge, to provide our services.
usage through innovation and system enhancement.
market access risk We must agree how it is used in coordination with We also educate and inform regulators and governments other satellite operators and need to coordinate as to the unique socio-economic contribution of Link to strategy: its ongoing availability.
We may not be able to our mobile satellite services.
We work on various 1 2 coordinate usage in the future and or may be World Radio Conference preparatory groups to brief charged for the spectrum which could affect our them on the ongoing need for our frequency allocations.
Channel consolidation We proactively make ITU filings for orbital slots through may drive down prices and ARPU.
several national administrations in order to create We require orbital slots to place our satellites opportunities to meet our short and long-term in the correct position to provide adequate spectrum and orbital slot requirements.
coverage and deliver our services.
We may not We negotiate with other companies on orbital slots be able to obtain adequate orbital slots or we and the ability to achieve better spectrum usage may miss deadlines to bring orbital slots into use.
Given the nature of the satellite business it is We obtain in-country market access for our important to have access to all areas of the globe distribution channel as far as possible and make and provide coverage world-wide.
This requires any licensing requirements as straightforward licensing from multiple national authorities.
We as possible for our partners.
may not be able to gain these licences for various We engage with and support regulators to defend reasons.
Market access may not be allowed in our licences.
certain countries which restricts our services being offered.
We may lose licences after they have been obtained due to non-compliance or legal challenges.
58 Strategic Report | Risk management Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management continued Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 11. Financing risk The company finances the business through We ensure the Company is financially robust and operating cash flow and capital market instruments.
The Board has Link to strategy: Our ability to finance the business in the medium defined and approved a robust financial policy.
1 2 3 5 term could be affected by the closure of capital We continuously review and adapt our business focus in markets, by failing to materially deliver on our reaction to developing political or economic situations.
business plans and strategy, or by downturns in the Our strengthened forecasting process informs our economy of a country and or the world economy.
We have never experienced closed capital markets.
We document and improve our internal processes.
We maintain an ongoing informed dialogue with the investment community.
Currency risk Downturns in the economy of a country and or world We carefully manage and monitor our cash flows, budget economy, armed conflicts and trade restrictions and plans and are prepared to make adjustments in case Link to strategy: could impact currency exchange rates and our of large currency exchange rates.
We are prepared to 3 5 business and strategy.
We have costs in GBP, so a hedge large contracts and cash flows.
significant change in GBP value could impact our business.
Some USD rate changes may only have translational effects in our accounts and results.
Loss of people We may fail to hire skilled people or adequately We implement our People strategy where we identify and key skills improve skills to maintain and grow our business, key employees, skills and skills gaps to manage human deliver our strategy and complete programmes and resources effectively and enable delivery of the Companys Link to strategy: projects.
We may lose highly technical and specialist strategy.
We invest in training and development for our 1 2 3 4 5 employees who have very specific skill sets that are employees and develop and implement recruitment vital to the business.
We may lose knowledge with strategies to ensure we have people with the skills the employees and consultants who leave the company.
Our employee value proposition Brexit negotiations outcomes could impact EU focuses on career development, training and reward to citizens working in London and UK citizens in Europe.
ensure we have an engaged and motivated workforce.
We may lose employee engagement and motivation.
Inmarsats Brexit committee analyses the impact of Our employees may suffer injury from terrorist the UK Brexit including no-deal scenarios and deploys attacks or natural disasters in our locations.
strategies to minimise possible impact.
There are other risks that are either secondary to the Principal risks described above or risks of a long-term nature.
These risks include but are not limited to: Ethical and compliance risks Failed delivery of internal programmes or projects Patent infringement Restrictions on terminal use because of physical, psychological or social reasons Environmental damage from our operations Risks from climate change
