52 Strategic Report | Risk management Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management Reducing risks to the execution of our strategy and support the ISO 27001 standard and report is further discussed and reviewed Effective risk management accreditation.
The policy sets out our risk by the Audit Committee and the Board, is fundamental to our appetite as well as roles and responsibilities.
which has overall responsibility for the risk The Board believes that the behaviour of management framework.
Whilst the focus ability to meet both our individuals across the business is key to in on the principal risks, the Central Risk underpinning an effective risk management Committee and business areas also short-term and longer-term culture.
Across the Group, use of our Inmarsat identify and mitigate secondary risks strategic objectives Values is helping promote the right set of at each meeting.
values to support effective risk management.
With risk assessments completed across As required by the policy, management applies the Group by the end of 2017, the focus Risk framework the risk process to identify, quantify, assess, in 2018 has been on progressing and Risk comes hand-in-hand with business mitigate and report significant risks within the completing risk mitigation actions.
Risk is not something that business, and to report to the Board on how The individual risk reports are assessed by should be driven out of the business but those risks are being managed.
Risks are initially the Central Risk Committee.
All the reports rather something to be identified, intelligently identified, assessed and described together represent a robust description of the assessed and managed.
The aim is not to with mitigation actions for each business Groups risk profile with targeted mitigation eliminate all risks, but to foster a culture unit and area in individual risk reports which actions to reduce the risks.
Due to the risk supportive of effective risk management by are reviewed and discussed with the relevant assessments focusing on strategic objectives, encouraging appropriate risk-taking to achieve Executive Management Team member.
the new process contributes to and supports our objectives.
The Groups approach to risk On a quarterly basis, the risks and mitigation our achievement of strategic goals.
is brought together in an overarching risk plan progress are formally reviewed by senior Our objectives-based risk workshops and management policy.
This policy, together management on a Central Risk Committee risk workshops on information assets, with the risk management process for risk represented by each component part of using the same process, are important assessment and mitigation, have been the business.
These risks are assessed and components of Inmarsats project to implemented to focus risk management on consolidated in a systematic way to identify obtain ISO 27001 certification.
strategic and business objectives, mitigation the Groups principal risks and the result is of the largest risks, and to comply with a Group risk report.
This quarterly Group risk Risk management process INMARSAT PLC BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD Defines the risk governance framework, Reviews the risk management Reviews the risk management risk culture and principles framework and the effectiveness of framework and the effectiveness internal controls, risk management of internal controls, risk management Sets overall risk strategy and policy systems and major risk initiatives systems and major risk initiatives Approves risk levels across the Group Reviews the internal audit Responsible for an effective system programme and reports The Executive Risk Committee assesses of internal controls the risks for the whole Group Approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities CENTRAL RISK COMMITTEE Reviews the risk profile against risk appetite and makes recommendations to management in relation to risk profile, strategy and key controls Reviews the sustainability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies Assesses major risk-related projects BUSINESS OPERATIONS Implement mitigation strategies
