PRINCIPAL RISKS Company is exposed are market risk, relationships thereafter and the length AND UNCERTAINTIES liquidity risk, outflow risk, expense of any transitional period prior to the risk and operational risk.
The Company UKs ultimate departure taking effect.
There have been no significant seeks to limit its exposure to these In addition, as a significant proportion changes in the principal risks for the and any other applicable financial of the current and anticipated Group in the past year.
The principal and non-financial risks.
regulatory regime applicable to the risks and uncertainties to which the Regulated Subsidiaries in the UK is Company is exposed relate to the The process of negotiation relating to derived from EU Directives and upstream of capital, predominantly the UKs exit from the EU following Regulations, the UK exiting the EU from its regulated subsidiary, IFAL, the service of notice under Article 50 could materially change the legal and in order to support its dividend-paying of the EC Treaty in March 2017 has regulatory framework applicable to capacity to its shareholders.
The key resulted in uncertainty in relation to the Groups operations because the drivers of this upstream of capital are the eventual outcome of those Regulated Subsidiaries are no longer the underlying financial performance negotiations, which is giving rise to required to adhere to the Directives and solvency position of IFAL and its some delays or deferrals of and Regulations, including in relation regulated subsidiaries.
In summary, investment decisions by businesses to regulatory capital requirements.
due to the nature of the business and individuals.
This uncertainty is written by IFAL and the other likely to continue until clarity is The following tables split between regulated subsidiaries, profitability obtained in relation to the precise financial and non-financial risks arises primarily from charges on the terms on which the UK will leave the describe the key risks of the assets held in the portfolios less the EU, the likely form and shape of its Company with a summary description expenses of administering those trading relationships with the EU and of how we manage and mitigate portfolios.
As a consequence, other countries with whom it has, or the risks and an assessment of the the predominant risks to which the wishes to have, significant trading change over the year: FINANCIAL RISKS KEY RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS Market risk the impact changes The upstream of capital to the Increased due to the growth in equity and property market Company is exposed to second of funds under direction and values, currency exchange rates, order impacts from market increased market volatility credit spreads, interest rates and movements as future charges and uncertainty.
inflation, may have on the value of are predominantly determined clients portfolios, resulting in a based on clients portfolio values.
reduction in future charges or an The Regulated Subsidiaries of the increase in future expenses.
Group do not offer any guarantees on portfolio values and currently invest their shareholder assets in high quality, highly liquid, shortdated investments.
Expense inflation risk is mitigated through regular stress testing, monitoring of expenditure and closely managing expenses in line with the business plan.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 31 STRATEGIC REPORT continued KEY RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS Liquidity risk this is the risk of The Companys principal liquidity No change.
the Company not having available risk is limited to paying out sufficient financial resources to dividends and operating expenses enable it to meet its obligations as as they occur.
they fall due, or can secure such There are robust controls in place resources only at excessive cost.
to mitigate liquidity risk, for example, holding corporate cash across a range of banks, in order to mitigate the risk of a single point of counterparty default failure.
Outflow risk loss of future profits The Group seeks to mitigate Increased due to the growth of due to more clients than expected outflow risk by focussing on funds under direction.
terminating policies or more providing the highest level of outflows e. g. withdrawals or service that it can.
Outflow rates transfers than expected.
are closely monitored and unexpected experience is investigated.
Despite the current challenging and uncertain economic and geopolitical environment, outflow rates remain low and stable.
Expense risk administration costs As a significant percentage of the Increased due to the growth exceed expense allowance, which Groups expenses are staff-related, of the business.
can occur due to costs increasing the key inflationary risk arises from faster than expected or from salary inflation.
Expense risk is one-off expense shocks.
mitigated through regular stress testing, monitoring of expenditure and closely managing expenses in line with the business plan which is set and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
Credit risk loss due to defaults The Group seeks to invest its No change.
from holdings of cash and cash shareholder assets in high quality, equivalents, deposits, formal loans highly liquid, short-dated and reinsurance treaties with banks investments.
counterparty limits are set for banks and minimum credit quality steps are also set.
32 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 KEY RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS Regulatory risk the risk of new Regulatory risk is mitigated Increased due to the introduction regulatory requirements having through regular monitoring of of new regulatory requirements.
adverse impacts on the Groups regulatory developments and business model, or the Group maintaining open and transparent failing to comply with existing or dialogue with the regulators to new regulations resulting in a fine which the different regulated or regulatory censure.
On-going compliance with existing rules is monitored by the Compliance function with additional assurance provided by the Internal Audit function for the key regulatory risks on a regular basis.
Operational risk the risk of loss The key operational risks No change.
arising from inadequate or failed are information security, internal processes, people and IT infrastructure and business systems, or from external events.
continuity related, all of which include exposures to cyber risks.
The Group aims to minimise its operational risks at all times through a strong and wellresourced control and operational structure.
In particular, the Group has in place a dedicated financial crime team and an on-going fraud and cyber risk awareness programme.
Additionally, the Group carries out regular IT system maintenance, business continuity planning testing and system vulnerability testing.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 33 STRATEGIC REPORT continued KEY RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS Competition risk the risk of Competitor risk is mitigated by No change.
competitor activity resulting in loss focussing on providing exceptionally of new business, increased high levels of service and being outflows of business or pressure on responsive to client and financial profit margins.
adviser demands through an efficient expense base.
Geopolitical risk the risk of Geopolitical risk cannot be Increased due to the increased changes in the political landscape directly mitigated by the Group.
uncertainty from the geopolitical disrupting the operations of the However, through close monitoring environment, e. g. the UKs business or resulting in significant of developments through its expected exit from the EU.
risk horizon scanning process, potential impacts are taken into consideration as part of the business planning process.
Reputational risk the risk that The Risk Management Framework Increased following the successful current and potential clients desire provides the monitoring mechanisms listing of the company.
to do business with the Group to ensure that reputational damage reduces due to perception of the controls operate effectively and Transact service in the market place.
reputational risk is mitigated, to some extent, by internal operational risk controls, error management and complaints handling processes as well as root cause analysis investigations.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
34 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018
