RISK AND RISK including the monitoring of risk MANAGEMENT exposures, reporting in relation to risk management arrangements and Overview for assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of policies and procedures Risk management assists the Board designed to detect any risk of failure in understanding its current and by any of the Regulated Subsidiaries future risks and provides appropriate to comply with their obligations under risk management information that the regulatory system.
is incorporated into its strategic decision making and business The Group has a prudent capital planning processes.
Risk management management approach and currently activities encompass all financial, invests shareholder assets in high strategic and operational risks that quality, highly liquid, short-dated may prevent IntegraFin Holdings plc investments.
the Company or IHP and the Group from fulfilling their business objectives.
How risks are managed Given the nature of the activities The Risk Management Policy provides undertaken by the Group, the key general guidelines for the design and risks that the Group faces are implementation of the Risk Management financial risks comprising market risk, Framework with the Board responsible liquidity risk, outflow risk, expense for establishing the risk strategy risk and credit risk and non-financial and Senior Management responsible risks comprising regulatory risk, for its implementation.
The Risk operational risk, competition risk, Management Policy is overseen by geopolitical risk and reputational risk.
the Chief Financial Officer and is The Chief Executive Officer, reviewed at least on an annual basis.
supported by the Chief Financial All material changes to this policy Officer, is responsible for executing are considered by the IFAL Risk the strategy set by the Board within Committee and approved by the the risk appetite defined by the Boards of the Regulated Subsidiaries Risk Committee of IFAL IFAL Risk and IHP with guidance provided by Committee and approved by the the Audit and Risk Committee.
Boards of Directors of each of IFAL, The Board is responsible for, and ILUK and ILInt collectively known provides oversight of, the Groups as the Regulated Subsidiaries.
Risk Management Framework with Overall guidance and oversight guidance provided by the Audit and is provided by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Group has Risk Committee which reports back established its framework with to the Board.
consideration of the Committee of The Chief Financial Officer reports Sponsoring Organisation of the directly to the Chief Executive Officer Treadway Commission COSO and is additionally accountable to the Integrated Framework Principles, Board and the Groups regulators for providing a consistent, pro-active the effective management of risk approach to identification, assessment, across the business.
The Chief mitigation and reporting of risks Financial Officer is responsible for throughout the Group.
overall management of risk controls, INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 25 STRATEGIC REPORT continued The Groups Risk Management Framework is shown below: OVERSIGHT ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT OWNERSHIP RISKS Risk and governance framework Board Strategy Business Market Credit Operational Model governance Risk management Board with and data quality policies Risk Committee Insurance guidance Liquidity Conduct Group Systems and Controls policies Management, Group policy, process and procedures Corporate and principles and guidance documents Client Accounting, Operations, Sales and Marketing, Information Technology, Human Resources, Procedures, manuals, Legal, Technical, operational limits, methodology, Quality Control, specifications, control activities, Actuarial training, reporting 26 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Internal audit Risk management and compliance Risk appetite the Group does not actively seek to take operational risk to generate The Groups risk appetite is the returns.
It accepts a level of degree of risk that the Regulated operational risk that means the Subsidiaries are prepared to accept controls in place should prevent in pursuit of their strategic and material losses, but should not operational objectives.
The Groups excessively restrict business Risk Management Policy and activities Framework provides the mechanism to define the Groups risk appetite.
the Group has very limited risk The Group has generally adopted appetite for unfair client outcomes an overall conservative approach arising from systematic failures in which is reflected in its risk its cultural outlook or in any appetite values and preferences element of the client life cycle and in the overall approach to risk the Group has very limited risk management.
The Groups risk appetite for material regulatory preferences can be articulated breaches.
as follows: The actual risk exposures of the the Group ensures risks that Regulated Subsidiaries are are taken are aligned with its regularly assessed by the Groups strategic aims and provide an Risk Management function against acceptable level of return risk appetite using a comprehensive the Group accepts certain risks set of key risk indicators and and ensures that these are reported to the IFAL Risk Committee appropriately managed, mitigated and Senior Management, with and monitored escalation to the Audit and Risk Committee as appropriate.
the Group has a preference for products with low capital requirements and without financial guarantees.
Additionally, the Group has a preference for secondary market risk through charges determined based on clients portfolio values.
This is central to the Groups proposition and it accepts the potential impact on financial performance INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 27 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Risk governance function reports to the IFAL Risk Committee, on at least a quarterly The Risk Management Framework basis, information and analysis defines risk governance as the on the key risks the Group faces combination of processes and structures including forward-looking risks, implemented by the Board in order to capital requirements and comparison inform, direct, manage and monitor against risk appetite.
The Chairman the activities of the Group towards of the IFAL Risk Committee then the achievement of its objectives.
provides a summary to the members The IFAL Risk Committee is made up of the Boards and the Audit and of independent Non-Executive Risk Committee.
Directors NEDs and is responsible for reviewing the manner in which The three lines of defence the Group and the Regulated risk governance model Subsidiaries implement, and monitor For risk management to be effective the adequacy of, the Risk Management it is important that the roles and Framework.
The IFAL Risk Committee responsibilities of all those involved also assists in fostering a culture that are clearly defined.
Accordingly, the encourages good stewardship of risk Groups Risk Management Framework and emphasises and demonstrates is designed along the three lines of the benefits of a risk-based approach defence model illustrated below, to management of the Group.
which aims to ensure at least three The Group implements a comprehensive stages of oversight to ensure that the top-down and bottom-up approach Regulated Subsidiaries operate within to managing risks through regular the risk appetite defined by the IFAL assessments, monitoring including Risk Committee and approved by the horizon scanning and reporting in Boards of Directors of each of the conjunction with Senior Management Regulated Subsidiaries.
The Risk Management THE THREE LINES OF DEFENCE RISK GOVERNANCE MODEL OF THE REGULATED SUBSIDIARIES: The Board Risk Audit Committee Committee Risk Ownership Risk Oversight Risk Assurance Managers Risk Management Internal Audit Business Compliance Operations First Line of Second Line of Third Line of Defence Defence Defence 28 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 First line of defence Risk Management Policy and Framework, as well as Risk Management The Groups first line of defence is reporting.
The Risk Management its business departments which have function provides regular risk reports responsibility for managing and to the IFAL Risk Committee, which is controlling their risks in accordance comprised solely of independent with agreed risk appetites through NEDs.
The Chairman of the IFAL Risk the implementation of a sound set of Committee then provides a summary processes and controls.
to the members of the Boards and Responsibility for risk management the Audit and Risk Committee.
resides at all levels within the Groups The Compliance function is primarily business lines, from the Senior responsible for supporting the Group Management Team to department to ensure that its activities are and team managers.
All staff members conducted in accordance with all are accountable for managing risks applicable regulatory requirements.
within the business areas for which they are responsible, ensuring Third line of defence compliance with prescribed company plans, policies and prevailing regulatory The Groups third line of defence and legislative requirements.
is the Internal Audit department, which provides independent The business lines are also responsible assurance on the adequacy and for complying with the policies and effectiveness of the Groups risk standards which comprise the Groups management and major business Risk Management Framework.
Current key risks and issues facing The Head of Internal Audit reports the Group are considered by the directly to the Chairman of the IFAL Management Team, with each key Audit Committee, which is comprised risk owned by the member of the solely of independent NEDs.
Management Team who is responsible for the strategic management of that Internal Audit performs regular audits risk across the Group.
across the business which involve assessing the implementation and Second line of defence effectiveness of the Risk Management Policy and Framework.
The results of The Groups second line of defence these audits are reported to the IFAL comprises of two functions: Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Risk Management function the IFAL Audit Committee then and the Compliance function.
provides a summary to the members The Risk Management function is of the Boards and the Audit and Risk responsible for co-ordinating all the Committee.
The Board is satisfied risk management activities within the that Internal Audit provides sufficient business.
This includes the development, assurance about the Risk Management maintenance and enhancement of the Policy and Framework.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 29 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Isle of Man Risk Based Capital regime The Isle of Mans Risk Based Capital regime based on Insurance Core Principles came into force on 30 June 2018.
As at 30 September 2018, ILInt has Own Funds of 23.0m and a Solvency Capital Requirement SCR of 15.4m which gives a SCR coverage ratio of 150%.
During the reporting period, the Company has been fully compliant Solvency II with the SCR.
Additionally, the Risk Based Capital balance sheet and SCR ILUK has fully embedded the are regularly monitored and in line requirements of the Solvency II with standard regulatory requirements regime which came into force on reported to the Isle of Man Financial 1 January 2016.
The new regulations Services Authority on a quarterly basis.
brought in detailed requirements covering risk and risk management, ILInt maintains a sound and appropriate including stress and scenario testing, system of capital management in as well as new valuation and order to meet its strategic capital reporting requirements.
ILInt has a preference for this has not fundamentally changed a simple system of capital management ILUKs business or risk profile and which reflects the nature of the ILUK continues to safely manage its business.
At a legal entity level, solvency position through the ILInt is capitalised at the required economic cycle.
SCR plus an adequate buffer defined as part of its capital management, ILUK has adopted the Standard risk appetite and dividend policies.
Formula approach in calculating the Solvency Capital Requirement SCR, and has not adopted any of the Transitional Provisions in the calculation of the Solvency II balance sheet or SCR.
As at 30 September 2018, ILUK has Own Funds of 183m and an SCR of 143m which gives a solvency coverage ratio of 129%.
30 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018
