ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 27 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Managing risk to deliver our Strategy Effective risk management provides the framework within which we can successfully deliver our strategic priorities.
Risk management is the OUR RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK responsibility of the Board and is integral to the ability of the ICG PLC BOARD The Board is responsible for Risk Management Group to deliver on its strategic RISK COMMITTEE and sets overall risk appetite Oversees the Groups risk priorities.
The Board is responsible See page 28 management framework and for setting the risk appetite of the system of internal controls ICAAP See page 59 BUSINESS Group, defining and monitoring Internal assessment STRATEGY of regulatory the risk culture and establishing Purpose and future capital requirements direction and maintaining appropriate See page 62 systems and controls to manage BUSINESS DECISION MAKING key risks.
A robust risk management Commercial & Operational CHIEF RISK OFFICER framework has been implemented steering committees Oversight, challenge and See page 27 to support this.
support to embed the Groups risk The Groups risk management framework OPERATIONAL RISK management framework is overseen by the Risk Committee under RISK GROUP REGISTERS See page 43 See page 43 See page 27 delegation from the Board.
The Risk Committee also considers the effectiveness CULTURE AND CONDUCT of the internal control environment to manage the principal risks faced by the Group.
Details of the activities of the Risk Committee in this financial year can be found in the Risk Committee report on pages 59 The bottom up assessment encompasses The Directors confirm that they have to 63. the identification, management and undertaken a robust assessment of Identifying principal and monitoring of risks in each area of the principal risks in line with the requirements emerging risks business.
The infrastructure and in-house of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Risk Committee determines the distribution teams maintain detailed risk Supplier Management was added as a principal risks through a consideration of the registers which are regularly reviewed, principal risk of the Group during the year.
strategy and operating environment of the updated and challenged by the Chief Risk Emerging risks are regularly considered to Group top down review and an analysis Officer CRO and the Operational Risk assess any potential impact on the Group of individual processes and procedures Group ORG.
In addition, the Groups and to determine whether any actions are bottom up review.
The principal risks to Investment Committees, Commercial and required.
Emerging risks include those the Group are updated at least annually Operational steering committees and related to regulatory legislative change and recommended to the Board by the Performance Review meetings provide and macroeconomic and political change, Risk Committee.
oversight of risks related to the activities which in the current year have included the of the Group.
This process ensures risk The top down review focuses on identifying ongoing developments in respect of the management responsibilities are embedded those principal risks that could threaten the UKs decision to leave the European Union.
in the business first line operations.
business model, future performance, capital or liquidity of the business.
In identifying Executive responsibility for each principal these risks, consideration is given to risk is reviewed and agreed.
The Board and principal risks identified by other asset the Risk Committee consider their appetite managers in the sector, relevant regulatory for risk across the business and establish expectations and external developments.
the level of acceptable risk for each of the This review also considers any relevant principal risks.
Key risk indicators are set and emerging risks.
these are monitored by the Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee also considers any risk mitigation plans.
28 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES AND MODEL AND STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS Managing our principal risks RISK APPETITE The Group considers its principal risks across three categories: 1.
Strategic and business risks The risk of failing to deliver on our strategic objectives resulting in a negative impact on investment performance and Group profitability.
Market, credit and liquidity risks The risk of an adverse impact on the Group due to market fluctuations, counterparty failure or having insufficient resources to meet financial obligations.
Operational risks The risk of loss or missed opportunity, resulting from a regulatory or legislative failure or inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems.
Reputational risk is seen as an outcome of the principal risks materialising.
Reputation and brand risk is carefully managed as part of the risk management framework.
Relative willingness to tolerate risk Risk appetite : The board acknowledges and recognises that in the normal course of business the Group is exposed to risk and that it is willing to accept a level of risk in managing the business to achieve its strategic priorities.
As part of its risk management framework, the Board sets the risk appetite in relation to each principal risk and monitors this via key agreed risk indicators and risk tolerances.
Where a risk is approaching or is outside the tolerance set, the Board will consider the appropriateness of actions being taken to manage the risk.
Strategic and business risk Lower Higher 1.
L oss or missed opportunity as a result of major external change 2.
F ailure to maintain acceptable relative investment performance 3.
Failure to raise new third party funds 4.
Failure to deploy committed capital in a timely manner Lower Higher Market, credit and liquidity risk 5.
Loss as a result of adverse market fluctuations 6.
Loss as a result of exposure to a failed counterparty 7.
Failure to meet financial obligations Lower Higher Operational risk 8.
Loss of a key person and inability to recruit into key roles 9.
Negative financial or reputational impact arising from regulatory or legislative failing 10.
Technology and information security risks 11.
Failure of key business processes 12.
Failure to adequately select manage key suppliers See pages 30 and 33 for principal risks ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 29 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS managing our principal risks VIABILITY STATEMENT Our strategy to grow our specialist The stress test scenario uses the 2008 09 asset management activities, enabled by financial crisis as its basis and reflects a our business model, is outlined in detail number of the principal risks of the business throughout the Strategic Report see pages through reducing new funds raised, lowering 2 to 36.
The strength of our business model, the deployment of capital and reduced After undertaking a with its focus on closed end funds, is locked net investment returns.
Further details are robust assessment, the in value.
Once established each investment included in the Group's Pillar 3 disclosures on Directors have a reasonable strategy has a more foreseeable fundraising our website.
pattern and long term predictable fee expectation of the Groups As part of the ICAAP process, a reverse streams.
This is what generates shareholder continued viability over the stress test exercise is also undertaken returns and allows for visibility in the growth to identify the circumstances under next three years.
of profit and dividend distributions.
which the business model becomes The period covered by the Groups strategic unviable.
This indicates that only under KATHRYN PURVES plan and the typical period over which major unprecedented macroeconomic CHAIR OF THE RISK COMMITTEE regulatory changes are implemented is three conditions does the Groups viability come years, which combined with an assessment into question.
As part of this exercise it is of the period over which forecasting assumed that the Group is subjected to assumptions are most reliable, and that there controlled run off, allowing the Group to meet are currently no drawn bank facilities and contractual maturities as they fall due with no maturity of committed facilities within significant headroom.
two years, has led the Directors to choose a The review of the three year strategic plan is period of three years to March 2021 for their underpinned by regular briefings to the Board formal assessment of viability.
The Directors provided by the heads of business units and are satisfied that a forward looking infrastructure functions and discussion of assessment of the Group for this period is any new strategies undertaken by the Board sufficient to enable a reasonable statement in its normal course of business see pages of viability.
These reviews consider both the Assessment of viability market opportunity and the associated risks, principally the ability to raise third party funds, The Groups prospects are assessed primarily invest capital and deliver strong investment through its strategic and financial planning performance.
These risks are considered processes.
At least annually, the Directors within the Boards risk appetite framework review the Groups three year strategic plan, which is detailed on page 28. underpinned by the Groups strategy and principal risks.
The strategic plan is built on a Viability statement fund by fund basis using a bottom up model.
Based on the results of the analysis, and For each fund assumptions are made on the in accordance with the provisions of the deployment of existing capital, the raising of UK Corporate Governance Code, the successor funds, and the performance of the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable underlying portfolio.
In addition, the strategic expectation that the Group will continue to plan includes assumptions about the launch operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall of new strategies, the ability to refinance debt due, for the next three years.
The Directors as it falls due and the development of the assessment has been made with reference to regulatory environment.
the Groups current position and prospects, Although the output of the Groups strategic the Groups strategy, the Boards risk and financial planning processes reflects appetite, the Groups principal risks and the the Directors best estimate of the future management of those risks, as detailed in the prospects of the business, the plan is stress Strategic Report on pages 2 to 36. tested to assess the potential financial and The Directors also considered it appropriate operational impact of a severe but plausible to prepare the financial statements on the downside scenario as part of the Boards going concern basis as set out on page 95. review of the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
30 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES AND MODEL AND STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS MANAGING OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY19 STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISKS 1 L oss or missed opportunity as a result Adverse macroeconomic conditions could reduce the Deterioration of Group performance The Board regularly receives detailed market reports, reviewing the During the year this risk has remained elevated This risk will remain a key area of focus due to the of major external change including opportunity to deploy capital and impair the ability of the Group compared to plan.
latest developments in the Groups key markets.
due to ongoing political uncertainty.
political uncertainties in macroeconomic, political and or to effectively manage its portfolios, reducing the value of future Deterioration in outlook for investment The Investment Committees receive ongoing detailed and T o help mitigate the risk associated with Brexit the UK and as part of the competitive impact management fees, investment income and performance fees.
valuations or loan impairment rates.
specific market reviews for each investment, including valuations ICG has received regulatory approval and Brexit negotiations.
Adverse macroeconomic conditions could also reduce and impairments.
established a Luxembourg licensed entity to See pages 19 and 82 In addition, we remain demand from investors for the Groups funds or create more ensure the Group maintains access to European The Board receives regular updates on external political vigilant to the potential opportunities for certain asset classes managed by the Group.
impact of global trade wars, economic The business model is based on long term investment in illiquid funds, uncertainties, e. g inflation therefore fee streams are locked in.
This provides some mitigation expectations and the against market downturn.
2 F ailure to maintain acceptable relative Failure to maintain acceptable relative performance in the funds Performance of closed end funds The Group has disciplined investment policies, and all investments There have been no material changes in the Maintaining a robust investment performance may result in a failure to raise new funds, reducing the Groups compared to performance hurdles.
are selected and regularly monitored by the Groups Investment Groups investment markets during the year investment process and long term income and ability to invest in future growth.
Rigorous credit research and procedures are applied both which would lead the Board to consider that this investment discipline.
Performance of capital market strategies in open ended funds may reduce or cancel their commitments, before and during the period of investment.
The Group limits the extent risk has changed.
reducing AUM and fund management fees.
of credit and market risk by diversifying its portfolio assets by sector, I nvestment performance remains positive Performance of CLOs including the ability size and geography.
In the short term, fund underperformance may result in lower across all key asset classes.
to pay dividends to equity holders.
performance fees in the FMC.
For the IC this may result in a lower Oversight and routine contact with the major portfolio investments Deterioration in outlook for investment return on assets as the IC is exposed to credit risk through its supports the delivery of both capital preservation and anticipated co-investments with, and its investments in, funds.
ICG's investments via its balance sheet are also regularly monitored.
See pages 19 and 82 3 F ailure to raise new third party funds A failure to raise new funds would reduce the Groups long term Forecast fund inflows.
The Group has built dedicated fundraising and scalable infrastructure Investor sentiment remains supportive of Maintaining discipline on income and ability to launch new strategies.
teams to grow and diversify its institutional client base by geography the Groups strategies but the fundraising fees and terms.
See pages 17 and 82 environment is highly competitive.
Diversification of risk by D uring the year the Group has seen positive selectively expanding The Group has expanded its product portfolio to address a momentum and delivered above its target for the portfolio of range of investor requirements and continues to build a strong raising third party funds.
T he Group announced in January 2018 that it Continuing to has raised its fundraising target to an average grow existing and of 6bn a year from 4bn.
4 Failure to deploy committed capital Failure to deploy capital reduces the value of future management The proportion of direct investment funds The rate of investment is kept under review by the Investment In a highly competitive environment, capital Maintaining investment in a timely manner fees, investment income and performance fees.
There is also a behind their target investment pace.
Committees and senior management to ensure acceptable levels are deployment for the larger strategies remains discipline and ahead of plan.
negative impact on investment performance and the ability to maintained in current market conditions.
See pages 18 and 82 raise new funds.
Closely monitoring external market developments and opportunities.
MARKET, CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISKS 5 Loss as a result of adverse market Volatility in currency and interest rates leads to changes in the value Within Treasury Policy hedging thresholds The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that any non Sterling During the year the Group has updated and Market volatility as a result fluctuations arising primarily from of the assets and liabilities of the Group and, to the extent that these and no material breach of interest income, expenditure, assets and liabilities are appropriately hedged applied its hedging policy consistently.
of political economic uncertainties, including exposure to interest rates and foreign are unhedged, will impact on the financial performance of the Group.
and that the residual exposure to market risk is managed to minimise the developments relating exchange rates short term volatility in the financial results of the Group.
This is Volatility in currency and interest rates may impact on fund to Brexit.
Currency and interest rate exposures are reported performance which may result in a failure to raise new funds, monthly and reviewed by the Groups Treasury Committee.
Continued focus on reducing the Groups long term income and ability to invest enhancing FX systems in future growth.
Portfolio credit risk is included in Principal Risk 2 above.
6 Loss as a result of exposure The Group uses derivatives to hedge market risk on its balance Counterparty exposure above the The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that any counterparty During the year the Group has updated and Ongoing monitoring of to a failed counterparty sheet.
By entering into these derivatives the Group is exposed Treasury Policy limits.
exposures are managed within levels agreed with the Board.
This applied its policy to manage counterparty counterparty exposures.
Actual counterparty exposures are reported credit risk consistently.
monthly and reviewed by the Groups Treasury Committee.
The Groups counterparties are national or multinational banks.
Should a financial counterparty of the Group fail, the Group would be exposed to loss.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 31 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LINK TO STRATEGY GROW ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT INVEST SELECTIVELY MANAGE PORTFOLIOS TO MAXIMISE VALUE PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY19 STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISKS 1 Loss or missed opportunity as a result Adverse macroeconomic conditions could reduce the Deterioration of Group performance The Board regularly receives detailed market reports, reviewing the During the year this risk has remained elevated This risk will remain a key area of focus due to the of major external change including opportunity to deploy capital and impair the ability of the Group compared to plan.
2 Failure to maintain acceptable relative Failure to maintain acceptable relative performance in the funds Performance of closed end funds The Group has disciplined investment policies, and all investments There have been no material changes in the Maintaining a robust investment performance may result in a failure to raise new funds, reducing the Groups compared to performance hurdles.
See pages 19 and 82 3 Failure to raise new third party funds A failure to raise new funds would reduce the Groups long term Forecast fund inflows.
32 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES AND MODEL AND STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS MANAGING OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY19 MARKET, CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISKS CONTINUED 7 F ailure to meet the Groups financial An ongoing failure to refinance its liabilities could result in the Forecast breach of financing principles.
The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that debt funding is ICGs committed bank facilities have been Continued focus on obligations as they fall due Group failing to meet its payment obligations as they fall due.
obtained from diversified sources and that the repayment profile is renegotiated to extend the maturity, reduce balance sheet efficiency.
managed to minimise material repayment events.
The profile of the cost and minimise refinancing risks.
As a result the Group would not be a going concern.
Regulatory debt facilities available to the Group is reviewed frequently by the capital requirements.
OPERATIONAL RISKS 8 L oss of a Key Person and inability Breach of any Key Person clause could result in the Group Loss of a key Person on a material fund.
The Group rewards its investment professionals and other key employees in There was no significant impact in the year as Managing the impact of to retain recruit into key roles having to stop making investments for the relevant fund or may line with market practice.
Senior investment professionals typically receive a result of the loss of any employee.
However, the UKs departure from Loss of a key employee without impair the ability of the Group to raise new funds if not resolved long term incentives and are able to participate in carried interest.
The staff attrition has increased and the recruitment the European Union on appropriate timely internal succession.
Group periodically engages external consultants to benchmark the rewards market remains challenging for talent.
offered by the Group to ensure they remain attractive and competitive.
The Employee engagement survey feedback.
Loss of a key employee to the Groups fund management The planned change of the Chief Executive Continued focus on feedback from the employee engagement survey is also considered.
business or a critical infrastructure role could impair the Groups Recruitment and retention rates.
Officer was completed smoothly after the AGM succession planning and ability to deliver its strategic objectives as planned if that role is The Group has succession plans in place for key employees.
in July 2017 with the internal successor taking managing Key Person not filled in a timely manner.
These are reviewed by the Nominations and Governance Committee of over.
For a period of time the departing Chief fund clause requirements.
Executive continued to be a key person on a The Group has an appraisal and development process for all its employees small number of funds.
This arrangement ended to ensure that individuals remain sufficiently motivated and appropriately before 31 March 2018. competent to ensure the ongoing operation and development of the business.
9 N egative financial or reputational The Groups reputation, ability to raise new funds and operate its Number and significance of any regulatory The Group has a governance structure in place, supported by a risk During the year the Group has continued General Data Protection impact arising from regulatory or fund management business would be impaired as a result or legislative breaches.
framework that allows for the identification, control and mitigation of to enhance its processes and controls in Regulation GDPR, legislative failing material regulatory legislative risks resulting from the geographical of a material regulatory or legislative failing.
order to remain compliant with current and Capital Requirements Identification and delivery of all material and product diversity of the Group.
The adequacy of the systems and expected legislation.
Directive V CRD V and Adverse regulatory change could impact the ability of the Group regulatory legislative change.
controls the Group has in place to comply with the regulations and to the Senior Managers to deliver its strategy in areas such as people risk, deploying Changes resulting from MiFID II have been mitigate the risks that these represent is periodically assessed.
This and Certification Regime capital, raising new AUM.
implemented where relevant and we continue includes a tailored compliance monitoring programme that specifically SMCR will remain key to monitor implement future proposed changes addresses regulatory and reputational risks.
Horizon scanning for relevant regulatory legislative change is a key part of the Legal and Compliance process and external advisers are used to support this.
10 T echnology information security The Groups ability to deliver on its strategic objectives relies on Any material breach, attempted breach Application of the Groups information security policies is supported The ongoing evolution of external threats has The implementation of inadequate or fails to adapt to changing technology and information security which adapts to changing or severe disruption due to systems data by a governance structure and a risk framework that allows for resulted in an increase in risk to the Group.
In the GDPR requirements, business requirements and or business demands and external threats.
Failure to deliver an security failure.
the identification, control and mitigation of technology risks.
The response, the Group has continued to improve cyber security and the external threats appropriate technology platform may impact the Groups adequacy of the systems and controls the Group has in place its systems and controls to identify and manage continued enhancements Any material loss or reputational damage reputation, and its ability to raise new funds and operate its fund to mitigate the technology risks is continuously monitored and technology and information security risks.
to business continuity arising from external threats.
The effectiveness of the framework planning and disaster During the year there continued to be a Service availability.
recovery processes remain high level of focus on cyber security and key areas of focus.
11 Loss or missed opportunities arising The Groups ability to raise new funds and operate its fund Any failure of business process resulting in Control procedures are in place to ensure that key business processes There were no significant business Focus continues on from failure of key business processes, enhancing processes to management business would be impaired as a result of the significant business disruption, financial or are identified, documented and monitored.
The effectiveness and process failures or material control weaknesses including valuations, financial reporting support the growth of the failure of key business processes.
Moreover, failure to maintain reputational damage.
efficiency of the control framework for key business processes are identified during the year.
The volume of and external reporting business.
Particular focus will adequate processes and internal controls over financial subject to periodic review by management, the Chief Risk Officer, and business change remains high.
Increased incidents of processing be given to enhancements to reporting and related activities could result in significant losses Internal Audit, and corresponding oversight by the Risk and Audit failures or delays, or over reliance on the processes for the openand or regulatory penalties or other claims.
detective, higher level monitoring or audit ended strategies.
Specific enhancements to be introduced to the liquid credit funds business area.
12 L oss or missed opportunities arising The Groups ability to raise new funds and operate its fund Any failure of business process resulting in Control procedures including appropriate due diligence, monitoring There were no significant business process Oversight of third party from a failure to adequately select management business would be impaired as a result of the significant business disruption, financial or and oversight are in place to ensure supplier management is effectively failures during the year.
manage key third party suppliers failure to select manage key third party suppliers.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 33 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LINK TO STRATEGY GROW ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT INVEST SELECTIVELY MANAGE PORTFOLIOS TO MAXIMISE VALUE PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY19 MARKET, CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISKS CONTINUED 7 Failure to meet the Groups financial An ongoing failure to refinance its liabilities could result in the Forecast breach of financing principles.
OPERATIONAL RISKS 8 Loss of a Key Person and inability Breach of any Key Person clause could result in the Group Loss of a key Person on a material fund.
Loss of a key employee to the Groups fund management T he planned change of the Chief Executive Continued focus on feedback from the employee engagement survey is also considered.
9 Negative financial or reputational The Groups reputation, ability to raise new funds and operate its Number and significance of any regulatory The Group has a governance structure in place, supported by a risk During the year the Group has continued General Data Protection impact arising from regulatory or fund management business would be impaired as a result or legislative breaches.
controls the Group has in place to comply with the regulations and to the Senior Managers to deliver its strategy in areas such as people risk, deploying C hanges resulting from MiFID II have been mitigate the risks that these represent is periodically assessed.
The effectiveness of the framework planning and disaster D uring the year there continued to be a Service availability.
12 Loss or missed opportunities arising The Groups ability to raise new funds and operate its fund Any failure of business process resulting in Control procedures including appropriate due diligence, monitoring There were no significant business process Oversight of third party from a failure to adequately select management business would be impaired as a result of the significant business disruption, financial or and oversight are in place to ensure supplier management is effectively failures during the year.
