Strategic Report | Principal risks and uncertainties and Long-term Viability statement PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES detailed on the following pages including a commentary on how This section sets out a description of the the Group mitigates these risks.
These risks and uncertainties principal risks and uncertainties that could do not appear in any particular order of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
have a material adverse effect on the There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded Groups strategy, performance, results, as immaterial which could turn out to be material.
Any of these financial condition and reputation.
risks could have the potential to impact the performance of the Group, its assets, liquidity, capital resources and its reputation.
RISK FRAMEWORK Our principal risks continue to evolve in response to our changing The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and risk environment.
We have added Brexit as a risk this year oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
This work because of the continuing political uncertainty.
We have is complemented by the Group Risk Committee, whose purpose is considered the risks presented by Brexit based on potential to manage, assess and promote the continuous improvement of scenarios.
As part of our risk planning, we have taken steps the Groups risk management, controls and assurance systems.
to relocate our UK-based Notified Bodies to other EU member This risk governance framework is described in more detail in states as Brexit will have a direct impact on the ability of the Directors Report on pages 83 to 88.
UK-based Notified Bodies to issue EC certificates for products The Head of Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel, who being sold in the EU markets.
Although we are keeping Brexit report to the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer developments under review, we do not at this stage perceive respectively, have accountability for reporting the key risks that any material risk to the Companys viability arising from Brexit.
the Group faces, the controls and assurance processes in place Two previous risks are no longer identified as principal risks for and any mitigating actions or controls.
Both roles report to the 2018: litigation risk is no longer seen as a principal risk on a Audit Committee, attend its meetings and meet with individual standalone basis as it is a sub-set of the quality and reputation members each year as required.
risks: we believe our facilities risk has reduced based on our Risks are formally identified and recorded in a risk register for business continuity planning work.
the significant countries and for each business line and support LONG-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT function.
The risk register is updated at least twice each year In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate and is used to plan the Groups internal audit and risk strategy.
Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of In addition to the risk register, all senior executives and their the Group over a five-year period to 31 December 2023, by direct reports are required to complete an annual return to carrying out a robust assessment of the potential impact of the confirm that management controls have been effectively principal risks and uncertainties on the Groups current position, applied during the year.
The return covers Sales, Operations, including those that would threaten the Groups business model, IT, Finance and People.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This is documented on the following pages.
PRINCIPAL RISKS The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of which, The Directors have determined that a five-year period is including macroeconomic and industry-specific cyclical risks, are an appropriate period over which to provide the viability outside the Groups control.
Some risks are particular to Interteks statement of the Group, as the Groups strategic review operations.
The principal risks of which the Group is aware are covers a five-year period.
Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2018 UPDATE Reputation Reputation is key to the Group maintaining and growing Failure to meet financial performance expectations.
Quality Management Systems: adherence to these is regularly audited and This risk remains stable compared with 2017. its business.
Reputation risk can occur in a number of Exposure to material legal claims, associated costs reviewed by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
The Group continues to invest in staff development, ways: directly as the result of the actions of the Group and wasted management time.
Risk Management Framework and associated controls and assurance processes, quality systems and standard processes to prevent or a Group company itself: indirectly due to the actions Destruction of shareholder value.
including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
of an employee or employees: or through the actions of Loss of existing or new business.
Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who undergo regular training.
other parties, such as joint venture partners, suppliers, Loss of key staff.
Zero-tolerance approach with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any customers or other industry participants.
individual employed by the Group, or acting on the Groups behalf.
Whistleblowing programme, monitored by the Audit Committee, where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders.
Customer Service A failure to focus on customer needs, to provide May lead to customer dissatisfaction and customer loss.
Net Promoter Score NPS customer satisfaction, customer sales trends and This risk remains stable compared with 2017. customer innovation or to deliver our services in Gradual erosion of market share and reputation if turnaround time tracking.
accordance with our customers expectations competitors are perceived to have better, more Global and Local Key Account Management GKAM LKAM initiatives in place.
responsive or more consistent service offerings.
54 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report SCENARIO ASSOCIATED PRINCIPAL RISKS DESCRIPTION Regulatory environment change Industry and competitive landscape Failure to identify, understand and Customer service respond to regulatory or political changes Regulatory and political change results in loss of revenue, profitability, People retention market share and or adversely changes Reputation the competitive landscape.
Brexit Customer service issue Industry and competitive landscape Failure to respond adapt to a customer Customer service service issue leads to a loss of key customers Business ethics and detrimentally impacts reputation.
People retention Reputation Brexit Ethical and or quality breach Customer service An ethical and or quality breach Business ethics leads to litigation including significant People retention fines and debarment from certain Financial risk territories activities, reputational Operational health, safety and security damage, loss of accreditation and Reputation erosion of customer confidence.
Brexit IT systems breach Customer service A serious data security IT systems breach People retention results in a significant financial penalty IT systems and data security and a loss of reputation among customers.
Reputation Brexit Furthermore, the Directors believe the five-year period The Group has a broad customer base across its multiple appropriately reflects the average business cycles of the business lines and in its different geographic regions, and is business lines in which the Group operates, particularly supported by a robust Balance Sheet and strong operational in relation to capital expenditure investment horizons.
The Board considers that the diverse nature of business lines and geographies in which the Group operates In addition to the bottom-up strategic review process where significantly mitigates the impact that any of these scenarios the prospects of each business line are reviewed, an assessment might have on the Groups viability.
has been made of the potential operational and financial impacts on the Group of the principal risks and uncertainties Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they outlined in the following pages.
The Directors have also have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able assessed certain combinations of these principal risks and to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due uncertainties in a number of severe, but plausible, scenarios, over the period to 31 December 2023.
The statement on going as well as the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
concern is in the Directors Report on page 88.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Strategic Report | Principal risks and uncertainties and Long-term Viability statement PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2018 UPDATE People Retention The Group operates in specialised sectors and needs Poor management succession.
HR strategy policies and systems.
This risk remains stable compared with 2017. to attract and retain employees with relevant Lack of continuity.
Development and reward programme to retain and motivate employees.
experience and knowledge in order to take advantage Failure to optimise growth.
Succession planning to ensure effective continuation of leadership of all growth opportunities.
Impact on quality, reputation and customer confidence.
Loss of talent to competitors and lost market share.
Operational Any health and safety incident arising from our Individual or multiple injuries to employees and others.
Quality management and associated controls, including safety training, This risk remains stable compared with 2017.
This could result in injury to Interteks Litigation or legal regulatory enforcement action appropriate PPE Personal Protective Equipment, Health & Safety policies and Security employees, sub-contractors, customers and or including prosecution leading to reputational damage.
including due diligence on sub-contractors, meetings and communication.
Avoiding fatalities, accidents and hazardous situations is paramount.
It is Erosion of customer confidence.
expected that Intertek employees will operate to the highest standards of health and safety at all times and there are controls in place to reduce incidents.
Industry and A failure to identify, manage and take advantage of Failure to maximise revenue opportunities.
GKAM and LKAM initiatives in place.
This risk remains stable compared with 2017.
Competitive emerging and future risks.
Examples include the Failure to take advantage of new opportunities.
The Groups results have been impacted by the lower Landscape opportunities provided by new markets and customers, Lack of ability to respond flexibly.
Focus on new services and acquisitions.
levels of capital expenditure in the energy sector, a failure to innovate in terms of service Erosion of market share.
Tracking new laws and regulations.
driven by lower oil prices, but more than offset by offering and delivery, the challenge of radically new and Impact on share price.
Regular strategic and business line reviews.
the diverse nature of the Group and its ability to different business models, and the failure to foresee Failure to respond to macroeconomic factors.
grow revenue and manage the cost base.
the impact of, or adequately respond to and comply Sanctions and fines for non-compliance with NPS customer research to understand customer satisfaction.
with, changing or new laws and regulations.
Macroeconomic factors such as a global market downturn and contraction changing requirements in certain sectors.
UK Withdrawal Flow of goods and services: increased friction at Reduced work volumes or delays in anticipated Monitoring of legal regulatory political developments affecting Group This has been added as a new risk as political from the EU customs points could disrupt our customers just in customer orders.
companies and our ability to operate.
Brexit time supply chains in the short-term or lead to changes Longer-term changes in global supply chains could lead Engagement with customers to monitor developments, views and feedback.
Brexit has a direct impact on our U. K. Notified Bodies in global supply chains in the midto longer-term.
to a need to refocus our service offering or delivery Monitoring of media and public statements by customers regulatory bodies and we have taken steps to relocate these locations to align optimally with customer requirements other stakeholders.
businesses to address that risk.
People: restrictions on the free movement of people and to remain competitive.
Liaising with UK Government departments to gather intelligence and explore We continue to monitor developments.
between the UK and EU could make it more difficult A failure to attract and retain talent could lead to opportunities to support.
to attract and retain talent in those markets.
Brexit planning to mitigate impacts on Notified Bodies, people and customer Regulatory environment: fide-harmonisation relating to A failure to identify, understand and align our service service delivery.
product or manufacturing standards could increase the offering and delivery with additional or diverging Access to market sector analysis from advisers.
regulatory burden on our customers and have an impact regulatory barriers could lead to a loss of revenue Prioritised investment in growth strategic areas.
IT Systems and Systems integrity: major IT systems integrity issue, or Loss of revenue due to down time.
Information systems policy and governance structure.
Data Security data security breach, either due to internal or external Potential loss of sensitive data with associated legal Regular system maintenance.
Additional work being undertaken to ensure factors such as deliberate interference or power implications, including regulatory sanctions and Backup systems in place.
continued adherence to the EUs General Data shortages cuts etc.
Disaster recovery plans that are constantly tested and improved to minimise Protection Regulation since implementation in Potential costs of IT systems replacement and repair.
the impact if a failure does occur.
Systems functionality: a failure to define the right IT Loss of customer confidence.
Global Information Security policies in place IT, Data Protection, Cyber Security.
strategies, maintain existing IT systems or implement Damage to reputation.
Adherence to IT finance systems controls part of Core Mandatory Controls new IT systems with the required functionality and Loss of revenue profitability if we fail to adopt an IT CMCs.
which are fit for purpose, in each case to support investment strategy which supports the Groups growth, Adherence to IT general controls.
the Groups growth, innovation and competitive innovation and customer offering.
Internal and external audit testing.
Data security: a failure to adequately protect the Groups confidential information, customer confidential information or the personal data of the Groups employees, customers or other stakeholders.
56 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2018 UPDATE People Retention The Group operates in specialised sectors and needs Poor management succession.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Strategic Report | Principal risks and uncertainties and Long-term Viability statement PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Legal and Regulatory PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2018 UPDATE Business Ethics Non-compliance with Interteks Code of Ethics Code Litigation, including significant fines and debarment Annual Code of Ethics training and sign-off requirement.
Ongoing annual confirmations ensure that staff and or related laws such as anti-bribery, anti-money from certain territories activities.
Whistleblowing programme, monitored by the Group Risk Committee, laundering, and fair competition legislation.
where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other verify compliance with the Code of Ethics.
Local compliance officers perform due diligence on compliance could be either accidental or deliberate, Loss of accreditation.
activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
and committed either by our people or sub-contractors Erosion of customer confidence.
Enhanced processes for engagement with suppliers and third parties.
sub-contractors to check that they have signed the Groups Code.
who must also abide by the Code.
Zero-tolerance approach with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual employed by the Group, or acting on the Groups behalf.
During 2018, 158 2017: 202 non-compliance issues were reported through the whistleblowing The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal and regulatory requirements.
There are also extensive internal compliance hotline and other routes.
All were investigated with 45 2017: 36 substantiated and corrective and audit systems to facilitate compliance.
Expert advice is taken in areas where regulations are uncertain.
The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation, and internal policy.
Regulatory and A failure to identify and respond appropriately to a Loss of revenue, profitability and or market share.
Monitoring of regulatory environment and political developments.
Political Landscape change in law and or regulation, or to a political decision, Increase to costs of operations, reduction in profitability.
Analysis of impact of regulatory and political changes on operational SOPs event or condition which could impact demand for the Reduction in the attractiveness of investment in specific andGroup policies.
Groups services or the Groups ability to grow, innovate business, sectors or markets and or adverse change Membership of relevant associations, e. g. IFIA with related advocacy and and or provide a competitive customer offering in any the competitive landscape.
existing or new industry sector or market.
Financial Financial Risk Risk of theft, fraud or financial misstatement by Financial losses with a direct impact on the bottom line.
The Group has financial, management and systems controls in place to ensure This risk remains stable compared with 2017. employees.
On acquisitions or investments, the Large-scale losses can affect financial results.
that the Groups assets are protected from major financial risks.
Doing Business the Right Way established as core financial risk or exposure arising from due diligence, Potential legal proceedings leading to costs and or Adherence to Authorities Grid which sets approval limits for principle within Intertek.
integration or performance delivery failures.
Review and update of core mandatory controls for Corresponding loss of value and reputation could result Legal, financial and other due diligence on M&A and other investments.
in funding being withdrawn or provided at higher A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly interest rates.
financial results are thoroughly reviewed.
The Group also operates a rigorous Possible adverse publicity.
programme of internal audits and management reviews.
Independent external auditors review the Groups half-year results and audit the Groups annual financial statements.
58 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Legal and Regulatory PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2018 UPDATE Business Ethics Non-compliance with Interteks Code of Ethics Code Litigation, including significant fines and debarment Annual Code of Ethics training and sign-off requirement.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59
